PT	AU	BA	CA	GP	RI	OI	BE	Z2	TI	X1	Y1	Z1	FT	PN	AE	Z3	SO	S1	SE	BS	VL	IS	SI	MA	BP	EP	AR	DI	D2	SU	PD	PY	AB	X4	C1	Y4	Z4	AK	CT	CY	SP	CL	TC	Z8	ZB	ZS	Z9	SN	BN	WC	UT	NR	DT	PM
J	Bermudez-Gonzalez, Guillermo; Maldonado Canca, Luis-Alfonso; Cabrera-Sanchez, Juan-Pedro; Cobo-Paz, Lucia								Symbols, sponsors and supporters: exploring the role of symbolic leadership and sponsorship congruence in fan behavior								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				27	6			36	63		10.1108/IJSMS-09-2025-0459			DEC 14 2026	2026	PurposeThis study examines how symbolic leadership and sponsorship congruence jointly influence fan behavior in a high-identity associative sport context. Specifically, it analyzes how presidential authenticity and perceived sponsor-club fit shape pride of belonging, team identification, attitudes toward the sponsor, and purchase intention in FC Barcelona.Design/methodology/approachData were collected from 902 FC Barcelona members who voted in the 2021 presidential election. Using partial least squares structural equation modeling (PLS-SEM), the study tests a mediated symbolic model grounded in Social Identity Theory, the Meaning Transfer Model, and the Congruence Hypothesis. Multigroup analyses were conducted to explore heterogeneity by voting behavior and gender.FindingsPresidential authenticity positively influences meaning transfer and brand pride, while sponsor-club congruence enhances both pride and attitudes toward the sponsor. Brand pride strengthens team identification and sponsor attitudes, which in turn significantly predict purchase intention toward the sponsor. Pride operates primarily as an indirect mechanism rather than a direct behavioral driver. Multigroup results indicate that some symbolic effects vary according to voting behavior.Research limitations/implicationsThe study contributes to social identity theory, the congruence hypothesis and symbolic transfer theory by integrating emotional and symbolic variables into a unified framework for sports sponsorship management.Practical implicationsPractically, the results offer actionable insights for sports clubs and sponsoring brands on managing symbolic capital, establishing legitimacy, and achieving cultural alignment in strategic decisions.Originality/valueThe study integrates leadership symbolism and sponsorship congruence into a unified symbolic model, demonstrating how internal and external symbolic cues jointly shape fan responses in associative sport organizations.		[Bermudez-Gonzalez, Guillermo; Maldonado Canca, Luis-Alfonso; Cabrera-Sanchez, Juan-Pedro] Univ Malaga, Dept Business Management & Mkt, Malaga, Spain; [Cobo-Paz, Lucia] Univ Malaga, Malaga, Spain; [Bermudez-Gonzalez, Guillermo] Univ Malaga, Dept Business Management & Mkt, Malaga, Spain								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001719131900001	87	Article; Article		
J	Fan, Penglei; Han, Mengzhao; Wang, Ting; Huang, Guihua; Wang, Xiaoshuai; Li, Ming								Muscle Synergy Reorganization and Force-Time Differences Across Upper-Limb Pushing Tasks with Different Mechanical Characteristics								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE											10.52082/jssm.2026.665				2026	This study compared the neuromuscular control strategies and force-time profiles of three upper-limb pushing tasks-the standard push-up (SP), plyometric push-up (PP), and standard squat push-up (SSP)-representing the endurance-, power-, and strength-oriented continuum of upper-limb pushing performance. Fifteen male rugby athletes performed SP, PP, and SSP on dual force plates while surface electromyography (EMG) (12 muscles) and vertical forces were concurrently recorded. EMG signals were processed and decomposed using nonnegative matrix factorization to extract muscle synergies. Synergy modules were evaluated using cosine similarity and paired-samples t tests. One-dimensional Statistical Parametric Mapping (SPM1D) was employed to compare synergy primitives and force-time profiles across tasks. Two synergies reconstructed all tasks (VAF > 0.95). Synergy modules differed among conditions (cosine similarity < 0.90), with task-specific changes mainly involving distal forearm, scapular-trunk, and elbow-extensor muscle weightings. SPM1D identified task-specific differences in synergy primitive 1 during 0%-12% and 48% - 71%, and in primitive 2 during 71% - 100%, with PP and SSP exhibiting higher late-phase activation. PP generated higher force than SP during 13% - 79%, while SSP produced higher force during 33% - 36% and 56% - 83%, but lower force early and near takeoff. Despite sharing two synergies, the three pushing tasks exhibited distinct synergy structures, activation timing, and force-time profiles. PP emphasized rapid early-to-mid phase propulsion, whereas SSP relied on sustained late-phase force. These findings demonstrate task-specific neuromechanical regulation and may help inform exercise selection for upper-limb strength and power development in trained athletic populations.		[Fan, Penglei; Han, Mengzhao; Huang, Guihua; Wang, Xiaoshuai; Li, Ming] Yangtze Univ, Coll Educ & Sports Sci, Jingzhou, Hubei, Peoples R China; [Wang, Ting] Jingchu Univ Technol, Inst Student Phys Hlth Promot, Jingmen, Hubei, Peoples R China; [Fan, Penglei] Yangtze Univ, Coll Educ & Sports Sci, Jingzhou, Hubei, Peoples R China								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001825810300001	32	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Sardroodian, Mahta; Rahmani, Hiwa; Behm, David G.								Dominant Leg Continuous Unilateral Hopping Impairs Contralateral Leg But Not Upper Body Explosive Performance								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE											10.52082/jssm.2026.656				2026	Many non-local muscle fatigue studies utilize continuous isometric contractions to induce unilateral fatigue and assess contralateral limb strength and endurance. The present study aimed to investigate the effects of dynamic unilateral lower-limb fatigue on contralateral lower-limb and upper-body explosive performance. Eighteen healthy adults (30.3 +/- 9.3 years) completed sessions involving continuous exercise performed to induce fatigue (1 min of unilateral hopping), intermittent exercise performed to induce fatigue (two 30-s bouts of unilateral hopping), and a non-active control. Explosive performance was measured before the intervention and at 1, 5, and 10 min post-intervention using repeated single-leg hops (10 repetitions) and rebound push-ups (5 repetitions). Significant interactions showed that contralateral hop height (p = 0.048), reactive strength index (p = 0.003), and lower-limb power (p < 0.001) were significantly reduced 1 min postexercise after unilateral continuous hopping. Hop height and power remained significantly lower at 5 min post-exercise (p = 0.03 and p = 0.008, respectively). In contrast, intermittent hopping did not induce significant contralateral lower-limb impairments but resulted in higher upper-body ratings of perceived exertion 1 min post-exercise compared with pre-exercise (p = 0.017) and 5 min post-exercise (p = 0.008). In conclusion, continuous unilateral hopping transiently impairs contralateral lower-limb explosive performance, whereas upper-body explosive performance remained unaffected. Intermittent hopping increases upper-body perceived exertion without affecting contralateral performance. These findings highlight the task-specific and structure-dependent nature of non-local fatigue.		[Sardroodian, Mahta; Rahmani, Hiwa; Behm, David G.] Mem Univ Newfoundland, Sch Human Kinet & Recreat, St John, NF, Canada; [Behm, David G.] Mem Univ Newfoundland, Sch Human Kinet & Recreat, St John, NF, Canada								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001825809000001	29	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Ren, Fang; Zhao, Xing; Qu, Sha								The Influence of Structured Multisport Activities at Different Weekly Frequencies on the Gross Motor Development of Preschool Children: Evidence for a Dose-Response Relationship								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE											10.52082/jssm.2026.627				2026	This study investigates the association between participation in structured multisport activities at different weekly frequencies and gross motor development in preschool children, aiming to provide practical evidence for promoting gross motor skills in early childhood. A total of 63 preschool children were classified into four groups according to their weekly participation frequency in structured multisport activities: the low-frequency group (L; up to 1 session/week, with intermittent participation; n = 16), the medium-frequency group (M; fixed participation in 1 session/week, with occasional participation in a second session; n = 15), the medium-high-frequency group (MH; fixed participation in 2 sessions/week, with occasional participation in a third session; n = 18), and the high-frequency group (H; fixed participation in >= 3 sessions/week; n = 14). All groups participated in a 12-week structured multisport activity program (60 minutes per session). Gross motor development was assessed before and after the intervention using the Test of Gross Motor Development-3 (TGMD-3). A 2 (Time: pre- vs. post-intervention) & times; 4 (Group: L/M/MH/H) mixed-design ANOVA was applied to evaluate changes in each gross motor development outcome within and between groups. After the 12-week intervention, (1) the total score of gross motor development showed a significant Time & times; Group interaction (p < 0.01, eta(2)p = 0.280). All groups improved (p < 0.01), and H, MH, and M showed greater improvements than L (p < 0.05). (2) The total score of locomotor movements showed a significant Time & times; Group interaction (p < 0.01, eta 2p = 0.205). All groups improved (p < 0.01), and H and MH showed greater improvements than L (p < 0.05). For individual locomotor skills, horizontal jump showed a significant interaction (p < 0.05, eta(2)p = 0.143); all groups improved (p < 0.01), and H and MH showed greater improvements than L (p < 0.05). (3) The total score of object control movements showed a significant Time & times; Group interaction (p < 0.01, eta 2p = 0.183). All groups improved (p < 0.01), and H and MH showed greater improvements than L (p < 0.05). For individual object control skills, two-hand strike of a stationary ball, one hand stationary dribble and two hand catch showed significant Time & times; Group interactions (p < 0.05, eta(2)p = 0.124, 0.128, and 0.163, respectively). For two-hand strike of a stationary ball and one hand stationary dribble, H and MH showed greater improvements than L (p < 0.05), whereas the significant interaction for two hand catch did not translate into significant Bonferroni-adjusted between-group differences at either pre-test or post-test. (4) The L group did not show significant improvements in gallop, skip, and one hand stationary dribble (p > 0.05), whereas the other groups improved in a wider range of movements (p < 0.05). After three months of intervention, preschool children participating in structured multisport activities showed improvements in overall gross motor development. Regular participation (once a week or more) was associated with improvement across all assessed gross motor skills. More frequent participation (at least twice per week) was associated with greater improvements in specific skills, including horizontal jump, two-hand strike of a stationary ball, and one hand stationary dribble. Although gross motor development generally tended to improve as participation frequency increased, no statistically significant additional advantage of the high-frequency group over the medium-high-frequency group was detected. These findings should be interpreted cautiously, given the absence of a non-intervention control group and the relatively limited sample size.		[Ren, Fang; Zhao, Xing; Qu, Sha] Beijing Sport Univ, Sch Sport Sci, Beijing 100000, Peoples R China; [Zhao, Xing] Beijing Sport Univ, Sch Sport Sci, Beijing 100000, Peoples R China								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001824977100001	26	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Qing, Liang; Zhao, Tianyu; Wang, Linjie; Zhu, Li; Dong, Chao; Liu, Jiancheng; Hu, Xiaoming; He, Sheng; Zhou, Tingting; Shan, Wenjing; Gou, Xiang; Pang, Rizhao								Effects of Blood Flow Restriction Training at Different Levels of Arterial Occlusion Pressure on Body Composition and Athletic Performance in Youth Soccer Players: A Randomized Controlled Trial								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE											10.52082/jssm.2026.606				2026	This study aimed to investigate the effects of low-load blood flow restriction training (BFRT) performed at different levels of arterial occlusion pressure (AOP) on body composition, maximal strength, and athletic performance in youth soccer players. Twenty-four male youth soccer players were randomly assigned to 40% AOP group, 60% AOP group, or control group. Participants in the BFRT groups performed lower-limb resistance training at 30% of one-repetition maximum (1RM) under the corresponding pressure conditions, whereas the control group trained without BFR. Training was conducted three times per week for six weeks. Body composition, back squat 1RM, countermovement jump (CMJ), T-test, and 30-m sprint performance were assessed before and after the intervention. Results showed that lower-limb muscle mass increased significantly in both the 40% AOP group (mean change = 0.55 kg, 95% CI: 0.13 to 0.97 kg, P = 0.010) and the 60% AOP group (mean change = 0.83 kg, 95% CI: 0.37 to 1.29 kg, P < 0.001), with the 60% AOP group showing significantly greater gains than the control group (between-group difference = 1.48 kg, 95% CI: 0.40 to 2.56 kg, P = 0.008). Back squat 1RM improved significantly in both the 40% AOP group (mean change = 6.50 kg, 95% CI: 3.90 to 9.10 kg, P < 0.001) and the 60% AOP group (mean change = 9.25 kg, 95% CI: 6.75 to 11.75 kg, P < 0.001), with the 60% AOP group demonstrating superior strength gains compared with the 40% AOP group (between-group difference = 2.94 kg, 95% CI: 0.20 to 5.68 kg, P = 0.048). CMJ height and T-test performance improved significantly in both the 40% AOP group (CMJ: mean change = 2.07 cm, 95% CI: 0.80 to 3.34 cm, P = 0.002; T-test: mean change =- 0.23 s, 95% CI:-0.35 to-0.11 s, P = 0.001) and the 60% AOP group (CMJ: mean change = 2.65 cm, 95% CI: 1.00 to 4.30 cm, P = 0.003; T-test: mean change =-0.26 s, 95% CI:-0.38 to-0.14 s, P < 0.001), with no significant differences between the two BFRT groups (all P > 0.05). No significant changes were observed in 30-m sprint performance across groups (all P > 0.05). This study showed that six weeks of low-load (30% 1RM) blood flow restriction training performed at both 40% and 60% AOP was associated with improvements in lower-limb muscle mass, squat strength, and selected aspects of athletic performance in youth soccer players, compared with low-load training without BFR. While both pressure levels elicited comparable improvements in CMJ and agility performance, training at 60% AOP was associated with greater adaptations in lower-limb muscle mass and squat strength, with no additional benefits observed for 30-m sprint performance.		[Qing, Liang; Wang, Linjie; Zhu, Li; Dong, Chao; Liu, Jiancheng; Hu, Xiaoming; He, Sheng; Zhou, Tingting; Shan, Wenjing; Gou, Xiang; Pang, Rizhao] Gen Hosp Western Theater Command, Dept Rehabil Med, Chengdu, Peoples R China; [Qing, Liang] Beijing Sport Univ, Sch Sports Med & Rehabil, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Zhao, Tianyu] Hosp Chengdu Univ Tradit Chinese Med, Dept Rehabil Med, Chengdu, Peoples R China; [Gou, Xiang; Pang, Rizhao] Gen Hosp Western Theater Command, Dept Rehabil Med, Chengdu, Peoples R China								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001824976100001	55	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Song, Honghong								Predictive Effect of Echocardiographic Assessment of Myocardial Efficiency on Martial Arts Performance								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE											10.52082/jssm.2026.569				2026	Cardiac strain and myocardial work indices may provide additional information for performance stratification beyond traditional physiological assessments in martial arts, but their relevance to anaerobic and neuromotor performance remains insufficiently defined. This cross-sectional observational predictive modeling study assessed whether echocardiographic myocardial efficiency indices were associated with performance classification among national-level martial artists. A total of 180 athletes were assessed, and the primary comparative analysis used the top and bottom tertiles of a composite performance score to define higher-performance athletes and a lower-performance internal reference group, respectively, rather than a non-athlete control group. Echocardiographic indices included global longitudinal strain (GLS), global work efficiency (GWE), global wasted work (GWW), and myocardial performance index (MPI). Performance outcomes included Wingate anaerobic power, agility time, reaction time, Balance Error Scoring System (BESS) errors, and Finger-to-Nose Alternation Test (FTNAT) coordination. Higher-performance athletes showed greater peak power than the lower-performance reference group (11.7 f 1.3 vs. 9.3 f 1.2 W/kg, p = 0.002), faster agility time (9.0 f 0.7 vs. 10.6 f 0.9 s, p = 0.001), and higher technical execution scores (8.4 f 1.0 vs. 5.6 f 1.4, p = 0.001). GLS magnitude was greater across myocardial segments, GWE was higher (96.8% vs. 92.1%, p = 0.002), and GWW was lower (9.4% vs. 13.2%, p = 0.003). GLS and GWE were associated with group classification in regression models, while lower MPI values were associated with shorter agility times and fewer balance errors, indicating better performance direction for both outcomes. These findings suggest that cardiac strain and myocardial work indices are associated with anaerobic and neuromotor performance in martial artists; however, longitudinal validation is required before these measures can be considered predictive markers for talent identification or training decisions.		[Song, Honghong] Shandong Sport Univ, Martial Arts Acad, Jinan 250000, Shandong, Peoples R China; [Song, Honghong] Shandong Sport Univ, Martial Arts Acad, Jinan 250000, Shandong, Peoples R China								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001822884700001	39	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Muller-Jabusch, Yoram; Petrella, Davide; Vanwanseele, Benedicte; de Beukelaar, Toon T.								Estimating running economy using wearable trunk accelerometry: a comparative analysis of three footwear conditions in highly trained runners								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2026.2715652				2026	Wearable accelerometry offers a practical methodology for analysing running biomechanics, a key determinant of running economy (RE). This study investigated whether accelerometer-derived features could estimate RE in highly trained runners. Eighteen male participants (age: 26.5 +/- 3.4 years; body mass index: 21.1 +/- 1.2 kg/m(2); 5 km personal best: 15 min 26 s +/- 1 min) completed one laboratory visit, with RE assessed during 5-min treadmill runs at 12 km/h and 16 km/h across three shoe conditions. Metabolic parameters were quantified via indirect calorimetry, while a tri-axial accelerometer measured biomechanical features. A data-driven two-step variable-selection procedure was combined with a linear mixed model to estimate RE from accelerometer data. Estimation accuracy was assessed with mean absolute error (MAE) and Bland-Altman plots. A three-way repeated-measures ANOVA was used to compare estimated and actual RE across speed and shoe conditions. At 12 km/h, six biomechanical variables explained 35.4% of RE variance, whereas at 16 km/h, two variables accounted for 35.1%. While estimated and actual RE did not significantly differ at either speed (p = 1.00), this does not demonstrate equivalence. Relative MAE was 3-4% and Bland-Altman plots showed wide relative limits of agreement (similar to 9-10%), indicating limited individual-level accuracy. Accelerometry could estimate RE within this sample on a group-level, but its individual-level accuracy and sensitivity to footwear effects are limited.		[Muller-Jabusch, Yoram; Petrella, Davide; Vanwanseele, Benedicte] Katholieke Univ Leuven, Dept Movement Sci, Human Movement Biomech Res Grp, Leuven, Belgium; [Muller-Jabusch, Yoram; de Beukelaar, Toon T.] Katholieke Univ Leuven, Dept Movement Sci, Neurosci Movement & Performance Res Grp, Leuven, Belgium; [Petrella, Davide; Vanwanseele, Benedicte; de Beukelaar, Toon T.] Katholieke Univ Leuven, Inst Sports Sci, Leuven, Belgium; [Muller-Jabusch, Yoram] Radboud Univ Nijmegen, Dept Med Biosci, Med Ctr, Nijmegen, Netherlands; [de Beukelaar, Toon T.] Katholieke Univ Leuven, Dept Movement Sci, Neurosci Movement & Performance Res Grp, Leuven, Belgium; [de Beukelaar, Toon T.] Katholieke Univ Leuven, Inst Sports Sci, Leuven, Belgium								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001855511000001	43	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Ilbak, Ismail; Ilkim, Mehmet; Tasci, Mehmet; Karatas, Ozgur; Tornoczky, Gusztav Jozsef								Psychological preparation in wrestling coaching: A qualitative exploration of athlete- and coach-focused strategies								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261479936				2026	Coaching in elite sport involves complex psychological, emotional, and interpersonal demands that influence both coaching effectiveness and athlete performance. In wrestling, coaches play a central role in facilitating athletes' psychological readiness while simultaneously regulating their own psychological states during competition. Despite the established importance of psychological preparation and Psychological Skills Training (PST) in sport, limited research has examined how coaches apply and adapt these strategies within applied coaching environments. The present study therefore explored psychological preparation strategies used by wrestling coaches, focusing on athlete- and coach-focused practices in competitive settings. A qualitative interpretivist design using reflexive thematic analysis was adopted. Semi-structured interviews were conducted with 33 wrestling coaches selected through purposive sampling. The analysis developed three interconnected themes: (1) athlete-focused psychological preparation strategies, (2) self-regulation and emotional management in coaching under pressure, and (3) reflective and experience-based evaluation of psychological preparation practices. The findings indicated that coaches implemented a range of applied psychological strategies, including motivational communication, imagery, self-talk, breathing techniques, routines, and reflective practices, to support both athlete performance and coaching effectiveness. These strategies appeared to function as informal and embedded forms of Psychological Skills Training (PST) integrated within everyday coaching routines. The findings also highlighted the reciprocal relationship between coaches' psychological states and athletes' performance preparation. Overall, the study contributes to a more context-sensitive understanding of psychological preparation in wrestling coaching and provides insight into how psychological strategies are translated into coaching practice. The findings have practical implications for developing evidence-informed approaches to psychological preparation in competitive sport.		[Ilbak, Ismail; Ilkim, Mehmet; Karatas, Ozgur] Inonu Univ, Fac Sport Sci, TR-44050 Malatya, Turkiye; [Tasci, Mehmet] Inonu Univ, Inst Hlth Sci, TR-44050 Malatya, Turkiye; [Tornoczky, Gusztav Jozsef] Univ Pecs, Phys Educ & Exercise Ctr, Med Sch, Jakabhegy u 6, H-7624 Pecs, Hungary; [Tornoczky, Gusztav Jozsef] Eotvos Lorand Univ, Inst Hlth Promot & Sport Sci, Fac Educ & Psychol, Budapest, Hungary; [Tornoczky, Gusztav Jozsef] Univ Pecs, Phys Educ & Exercise Ctr, Med Sch, Jakabhegy u 6, H-7624 Pecs, Hungary								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001854878800001	71	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Freitas, Ines; Gouveia, Elvio Rubio; Saldanha, Carolina; Sousa, Honorato; Sarmento, Hugo; Sampaio, Antonio R.; Cinarli, Fahri; Franca, Cintia								Load distribution and positional demands in female soccer: An analysis of training and match play								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261479186				2026	Monitoring training and match load has become a current practice in football. The current study's aims were: (1) to explore differences in external and internal load volume between playing positions within training sessions and matches, and (2) to analyze external and internal load distribution across the training microcycle based on playing positions in female soccer. Twenty-one professional female soccer players were monitored during 128 training sessions and 19 matches. Players were classified by playing position: center backs (CBs, n = 3), full backs (FBs, n = 5), central midfielders (CMs, n = 6), wide forwards (WFs, n = 3), and central forwards (CFs, n = 4). The data from weekly microcycles were organized by the days before match day (MD). External load was measured using GPS technology, and internal load was assessed using the session rating of perceived exertion (sRPE). CFs and WFs covered greater total distances and performed more accelerations and decelerations than the other playing positions, both in training and matches. Variations in load volume across the weekly training microcycle were observed by playing position, including differences in sRPE. MD-1 consistently showed the lowest load (representing 36.3% of the match load), while higher load volumes were recorded between MD-2 and MD-3 (representing 63.6% and 56.8% of the match load, respectively). Playing position significantly influenced both external and internal loads during training and match play. Intra-microcycle variations in load volume highlighted the position-specific physical and physiological demands, supporting the need for individualized training prescriptions that account for the distinct locomotor and metabolic requirements of playing position.		[Freitas, Ines; Gouveia, Elvio Rubio; Sousa, Honorato; Franca, Cintia] Univ Madeira, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Funchal, Portugal; [Freitas, Ines; Sampaio, Antonio R.] Maia Polytech Inst IPMAIA, Polytech Inst Maia N2i, Res Ctr, Maia, Portugal; [Gouveia, Elvio Rubio; Franca, Cintia] Interact Technol Inst, LARSyS, Funchal, Portugal; [Gouveia, Elvio Rubio] Univ Geneva, Ctr Interdisciplinary Study Gerontol & Vulnerabil, Geneva, Switzerland; [Gouveia, Elvio Rubio; Sarmento, Hugo] Univ Lisbon, Fac Motricidade Humana, CIPER, Cruz Quebrada Dafundo, Portugal; [Saldanha, Carolina; Sarmento, Hugo] Univ Coimbra, Fac Sport Sci & Phys Educ, CIPER, Coimbra, Portugal; [Sampaio, Antonio R.] Univ Maia UMaia, Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev CIDESD, Maia, Portugal; [Cinarli, Fahri] Inonu Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Malatya, Turkiye; [Franca, Cintia] Univ Madeira, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Funchal, Portugal								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001854881800001	33	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Walter, Leonie; Cohen, Henry; Sanchez, Raimundo; van Iperen, Luuk; Day, Melissa; Besomi, Manuela								Distinct self-regulation patterns differentiate runners by recent injury history and current injury status: A cross-sectional study of Australian runners								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				81						101973	10.1016/j.ptsp.2026.101973			SEP 2026	2026	Objective: To examine self-regulation strategies, passion, and pain responses among runners with distinct injury recency profiles. Design: Cross-sectional study. Setting: Online survey. Participants: 335 runners (50.5% male; median age 39 years, IQR 29-51). Main outcome measures: Demands, resources, and recovery (DISQ-R Sport 1.2); metacognition (Self-Regulation of Sport Practice Survey); 12-month injury severity (OSTRC-H2); passion (Passion Scale); and pain responses (Pain Responses Scale). Results: Participants were grouped into four profiles: currently (n = 85), recently (n =115), previously (n = 90), and never injured (n = 45). Currently and recently injured runners reported higher physical/emotional demands, evaluative overthinking, and maladaptive pain responses. Previously injured runners showed stronger cognitive/ emotional recovery strategies, but high passion combined with frequent event participation increased remoteinjury classification likelihood. Never-injured runners were characterized by lower demands, greater cognitive resources, fewer negative pain responses, older age, and more running experience. Conclusions: Distinct patterns of self-regulation, passion, and pain responses differentiate recent injury history profiles in runners. Integrating psychological and behavioural factors with physical training may improve understanding of psychological correlates across distinct injury histories and support more holistic strategies tailored to the runner's current injury status.		[Walter, Leonie] Univ Rome Foro Italico, Rome, Italy; [Walter, Leonie; Sanchez, Raimundo; Besomi, Manuela] Univ Queensland, Sch Hlth & Rehabil Sci, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [Cohen, Henry; Day, Melissa] Univ Queensland, Sch Psychol, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [Sanchez, Raimundo; Day, Melissa; Besomi, Manuela] Univ Queensland, Ctr Innovat Pain & Hlth Res, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [van Iperen, Luuk] Radboud Univ Nijmegen, Strategy & Change, Nijmegen, Netherlands; [Besomi, Manuela] Univ Desarrollo, Carrera Kinesiol, Santiago, Chile; [Besomi, Manuela] Running Clin, Lac Beauport, PQ, Canada; [Day, Melissa] Univ Washington Seattle, Dept Rehabil Med, Seattle, WA 98104 USA; [Walter, Leonie] Alma Mater Europaea Univ, Vienna, Austria; [Besomi, Manuela] Therapies Bldg 84A Serv Rd, St Lucia, Qld 4067, Australia								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001854070000001	38	Article; Article		
J	Boge, Veysel; Peker, Alper Tunga; Kilci, Abdullah; Arruda, Danilo; Goncalves, Bruno; Lago-Penas, Carlos								The association of team surface area and tactical formation on match running performance in elite soccer								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261475500				2026	The present study examined associations between Team Surface Area (TSA), tactical formations, and match running performance (MRP) during defensive subphases (high, mid, and low-blocks) and possession build-up in elite football. Matches from 31 teams in the 2022 FIFA World Cup were analyzed across four formations (3-4-3, 4-3-3, 4-4-2, and 4-2-3-1). MRP variables included total distance covered (m), Zone 4 distance (20-25 km & centerdot;h(-1); m), Zone 5 distance (>25 km & centerdot;h(-1); m), HSR actions in Zone 4, sprint actions in Zone 5, and top speed (km & centerdot;h(-1)). Mixed-effects models assessed main and interaction effects of TSA and formation type on MRP. TSA alone showed no significant effect on MRP variables after correction for multiple comparisons. Zone 4 distance showed significant TSA & times; formation interactions in low-block and mid-block phases (both BH-FDR-adjusted p = 0.037), with 3-4-3 showing more positive associations with increasing TSA than 4-3-3 and 4-2-3-1. HSR actions showed a significant TSA & times; formation interaction in the low-block (BH-FDR-adjusted p = 0.002), with increasing TSA associated with greater HSR demands in 3-4-3 but lower HSR demands in 4-3-3 and 4-2-3-1. Larger possession build-up areas were associated with increased HSR actions irrespective of formation (BH-FDR-adjusted p = 0.002). Total distance covered, Zone 5 distance, sprint actions, and top speed were not significantly affected after correction for multiple comparisons. These findings indicate that MRP in elite football is better explained by the interaction between tactical structure and spatial organization than by TSA or formation alone. MRP should therefore be interpreted within a phase-specific tactical context.		[Boge, Veysel] Selcuk Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Konya, Turkiye; [Peker, Alper Tunga] Minnesota Thunder Acad, Minneapolis, MN 55423 USA; [Kilci, Abdullah] Cukurova Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Coaching Educ, Adana, Turkiye; [Arruda, Danilo] Univ Minnesota, Sch Kinesiol, Minneapolis, MN USA; [Goncalves, Bruno] Univ Evora, Escola Saude & Desenvolvimento Humano, Dept Desporto & Saude, Comprehens Hlth Res Ctr CHRC, Evora, Portugal; [Lago-Penas, Carlos] Univ Vigo, Fac Ciencias Educ & Deporte, CIDEGA, Pontevedra, Spain; [Peker, Alper Tunga] Minnesota Thunder Acad, Minneapolis, MN 55423 USA								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001853012700001	34	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Tamaki, Sho; Yoshida, Kazuto								Spatiotemporal features of shots and their impact on return error in table tennis								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261474741				2026	Table tennis is often played under substantial temporal constraints, likely attributable to its small playing area and high ball speeds. However, the magnitude of this pressure and its link to return errors remain unclear. This study aimed to quantify the temporal pressure in elite table tennis matches and examined its spatiotemporal determinants-inter-stroke interval, ball speed, and hitting position-and their impact on return error. A total of 7874 strokes from 13 male and 17 female professional singles matches were analyzed. Ball trajectories were reconstructed using computer vision, and inter-stroke intervals were then calculated based on the reconstructed trajectories. Logistic regression analysis was used to examine how these variables and their interactions influenced return errors. Results showed that shorter inter-stroke intervals and higher ball speeds significantly increased return error rates, supporting the speed-accuracy trade-off under time pressure. Ball speed had an independent effect even when the inter-stroke interval was controlled. Hitting position contributed to inter-stroke interval estimation but had minimal direct effect on return outcomes. Despite sex differences in shot speed and positioning, inter-stroke intervals were similar. In summary, temporal pressure plays a quantifiable role in elite table tennis, and players tend to increase it through ball speed rather than positioning.		[Tamaki, Sho] Meio Univ, Fac Human Hlth Sci, Dept Sports & Hlth Sci, Okinawa, Japan; [Yoshida, Kazuto] Juntendo Univ, Grad Sch Hlth & Sports Sci, Chiba, Japan; [Tamaki, Sho] Meio Univ, Okinawa, Japan								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001852706500001	31	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Ball, James; Huynh, Minh; Varley, Matthew C.								Standout individual contributions and balanced team performance in soccer: No clear association with long-term success								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261475056				2026	While standout individual performances may influence single-match outcomes, it remains unclear whether season success is associated with a team's distribution of standout versus balanced performances. The aims of this study were to quantify the relationship between standout performance ratio and points per match, characterise within-season dynamics, and investigate repeat standout contributions. Match and player data from five European leagues across three seasons (2022/23-2024/25) yielded 5984 usable matches. Matches were classified as standout when at least one player's rating was >= 2 SD above the team's within-match mean, or balanced when no such standout occurred. A season-level individual standout performance ratio was analysed using a Bayesian multilevel regression, adjusting for league, season, and team. The standout performance ratio showed no consistent association with points per match (estimate -0.17; 95% CrI -1.35 to 0.98; probability the effect is positive = 0.39), and fixed effects explained negligible variance ( = 0.003). In contrast, most variance was attributable to stable differences between teams ( = 0.71; team ICC = 0.76). Within seasons, league-average standout performance ratio fluctuated modestly rather than trending consistently. Standout performances were rare, most players recorded none, and repeat standouts were uncommon. These findings indicate that success is achievable through diverse performance distributions rather than a singular standout performance strategy. The standout performance ratio may therefore provide a useful descriptive indicator of how player performances are distributed within teams, although its interpretation depends on the scope and validity of the underlying player rating framework.		[Ball, James; Varley, Matthew C.] La Trobe Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Human Serv & Sport, Sport Performance & Nutr Res Grp, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Huynh, Minh] Monash Univ, Dept Econometr & Business Stat, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Ball, James] La Trobe Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Human Serv & Sport, Sport Performance & Nutr Res Grp, Melbourne, Vic, Australia								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001852708500001	25	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Dane, Kathryn; Deaver, Nicholas; Fletcher, Elizabeth; Shill, Isla J.; West, Stephen; Siemens, Kaylee; Knight, Gemma; Salmon, Danielle; Hendricks, Sharief; Dennett, Brooke; Goulet, Claude; Emery, Carolyn A.								Are girls contact-ready? Video analysis of tackle training practices in adolescent girls rugby union								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261474875				2026	As most rugby injuries occur during tackles, understanding how contact skills are delivered in practice is critical for informing best practice and policy. World Rugby's contact load guidance and the Tackle Ready and Contact Confident tackle training (TT) programmes are recommended for progressive contact preparation. Within a coach TT education workshop initiative, this study aimed to characterise TT practices and adoption of World Rugby-recommended components in girls rugby. In this cross-sectional study, 251 practice sessions from 33 teams were analysed using a 10-item framework. Activities were classified as controlled contact (restrained) or full contact (unrestrained). Mixed-effects models were used to examine associations between age categories, TT workshop attendance, and contact exposure or programme adoption. Eighty-five percent of teams had at least one coach who had attended a workshop. Controlled contact activities occurred in 76.5% of sessions (median 14.7 min, Q1,Q3: 2.8,24.2). Full contact was infrequent (9.2%, median 0 min, Q1,Q3: 0,0). Coach workshop exposure was associated with greater controlled contact minutes (+9.08 min, p = 0.004) but no difference in full contact. Tackle Ready phases were observed in 70.9% of practices and Contact Confident in 68.5%, with only 2.8% of sessions incorporating all Contact Confident groups. Contact was predominantly delivered through isolated formats without equipment. Findings suggest selective TT adoption following workshop exposure, with lower odds of Contact Confident uptake (OR = 0.31, 95%CI: 0.09,1.00) and higher odds of Tackle Ready adoption (OR = 2.42, 95%CI: 0.85,6.90) for coaches exposed to TT workshop. Tailored support is needed to promote balanced and progressive contact training in rugby.		[Dane, Kathryn; Deaver, Nicholas; Fletcher, Elizabeth; Shill, Isla J.; West, Stephen; Siemens, Kaylee; Salmon, Danielle; Dennett, Brooke; Emery, Carolyn A.] Univ Calgary, Fac Kinesiol, Sport Injury Prevent Res Ctr, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Dane, Kathryn; Deaver, Nicholas; Fletcher, Elizabeth; West, Stephen; Emery, Carolyn A.] Univ Calgary, Hotchkiss Brain Inst, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Dane, Kathryn; Deaver, Nicholas; Fletcher, Elizabeth; West, Stephen; Emery, Carolyn A.] Univ Calgary, Alberta Childrens Hosp Res Inst, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Dane, Kathryn; Deaver, Nicholas; West, Stephen; Emery, Carolyn A.] Univ Calgary, OBrien Inst Publ Hlth, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Shill, Isla J.; Emery, Carolyn A.] Univ Victoria, Sch Med Sci, Victoria, BC, Canada; [Shill, Isla J.; Emery, Carolyn A.] Univ Victoria, Inst Aging & Lifelong Hlth, Victoria, BC, Canada; [West, Stephen; Knight, Gemma] Univ Bath, UK Collaborating Ctr Injury & Illness Prevent Spor, Bath, England; [West, Stephen; Knight, Gemma; Emery, Carolyn A.] Univ Bath, Ctr Hlth & Injury & Illness Prevent Sport, Dept Hlth, Bath, England; [Salmon, Danielle] Int Rugby Players Assoc, Rugby Operat, Dublin, Ireland; [Hendricks, Sharief] Univ Cape Town, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Human Biol, Div Physiol Sci, Cape Town, South Africa; [Hendricks, Sharief] Leeds Beckett Univ, Carnegie Appl Rugby Res CARR Ctr, Carnegie Sch Sport, Leeds, England; [Hendricks, Sharief] Stellenbosch Inst Adv Study STIAS, Wallenberg Res Ctr, Stellenbosch, South Africa; [Goulet, Claude] Univ Laval, Fac Educ, Dept Phys Educ, Quebec City, PQ, Canada; [Dane, Kathryn] Univ Calgary, Fac Kinesiol, Sport Injury Prevent Res Ctr, Calgary, AB, Canada								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001852719900001	39	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Carson, Valerie; Potter, Morgan; Hwang, Yeongho; Buckler, E. Jean; Boyd, Madison; Rhodes, Ryan E.; Liu, Sam; Naylor, Patti-Jean								The Expansion of a Parent-Focused Physical Literacy Intervention for Early Childhood to Families Experiencing Vulnerability: Randomized Controlled Trial								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT											10.1080/02701367.2026.2714832				2026	Examine the efficacy and implementation of the expansion of a virtually delivered, parent-focused physical literacy intervention for early childhood called PLAYshop to families experiencing vulnerability. A randomized controlled trial was conducted in 35 parents (intervention: 16; control: 19) of preschool-aged children (3-5 years) from Alberta and British Columbia, Canada. PLAYshop included educational training (i.e. workshop), educational and material (i.e. handouts, active play equipment) resources, and follow-up support via an app with four bi-weekly booster lessons. Primary efficacy outcomes, including parental capability, opportunity, and motivation to support preschool-aged children's physical literacy development, were measured at baseline and post-workshop (intervention group)/1-week post-baseline questionnaire (control group). Secondary implementation outcomes (satisfaction, perceived usefulness, facilitators, barriers, and dose) were measured in the parental questionnaire and explored via parent (n = 11), agency partner staff (n = 9), and workshop leader (n = 3) interviews. Repeated measures analyses of variance (RM ANOVAs) were conducted. Increases in parental capability (i.e. knowledge: partial eta(2)= 0.124; p = .038), opportunity (i.e. perceived availability of resources: partial eta(2)= 0.420; p < .001), and motivation (i.e. confidence: partial eta(2)= 0.128; p = .035) to support preschool-aged children's physical literacy development were observed in the intervention group, compared to the control group. All intervention parents found the workshop useful/extremely useful, were satisfied/extremely satisfied with the workshop content and delivery, and reported in interviews implementing physical literacy-related active play. Recruitment was challenging, and only 31% accessed >= 1 booster lesson. Efficacy for the PLAYshop intervention was observed for some outcomes in families experiencing vulnerability. Incorporating PLAYshop into existing programs of partner agencies may address implementation challenges.		[Carson, Valerie; Potter, Morgan; Hwang, Yeongho; Boyd, Madison] Univ Alberta, Edmonton, AB, Canada; [Buckler, E. Jean; Rhodes, Ryan E.; Liu, Sam; Naylor, Patti-Jean] Univ Victoria, Victoria, BC, Canada; [Carson, Valerie] Fac Kinesiol Sport & Recreat, Univ Hall,Van Vliet Complex 8840 114 St NW, Edmonton, AB T6G 2H9, Canada								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001850351900001	41	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Pan, Meixi; Teng, Jin; Luo, Wei; Wang, Yijie; Shen, Siqin								Surface-related differences in lower-limb biomechanics during running on concrete and artificial turf using OpenSim								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2026.2715648				2026	Surface-related alterations in joint loading during trail running remain unclear. Twenty male recreational rearfoot-strike runners performed overground running at 3.3 m/s on concrete and artificial turf. Three-dimensional kinematics, ground reaction forces (GRFs), and surface electromyography (sEMG) were recorded. An OpenSim Gait2392 model combined with Static Optimisation and Joint Reaction Analysis was used to estimate ankle, knee, and hip joint reaction forces (JRFs). Vertical and anteroposterior GRFs and vertical JRF peaks showed no significant differences between surfaces. However, the concrete surface yielded larger mediolateral GRF magnitudes (p < 0.001) and higher peak anterior ankle JRF (p = 0.049). Exploratory analyses indicated potential differences in knee and ankle mechanics, but these did not survive false discovery rate correction. Under speed-controlled running conditions, surface type had limited effects on vertical GRF and proximal joint loading. Adaptations to different surfaces appear to occur mainly through distal mechanical adjustments, particularly at the ankle and in mediolateral force control.		[Pan, Meixi; Luo, Wei; Wang, Yijie; Shen, Siqin] Dalian Univ, Coll Phys Educ, Dalian, Liaoning, Peoples R China; [Teng, Jin] Beijing Sport Univ, Dept Sports Biomech, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Shen, Siqin] Dalian Univ, Coll Phys Educ, Dalian, Liaoning, Peoples R China								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001850315100001	49	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Hofman, Natan Borges; Laporta, Lorenzo; Schons, Pedro; Berriel, Guilherme Pereira; Kruel, Luiz Fernando Martins; Deutner, Julia Goerck; Costa, Gustavo de Conti Teixeira; Leonardi, Thiago Jose								Which side-out actions discriminate higher-ranked teams in the Brazilian U-17 men's volleyball championship?								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261474869				2026	This study aimed to determine which side-out actions discriminate top-ranked teams in an elite Brazilian youth volleyball competition. We analysed 56 matches from the Brazilian Under-17 Men's National Championship, including 67,878 side-out-related actions. The 16 teams were grouped into pairs from A to H according to their final classification in the Special and First Divisions. Multinomial logistic regression was used to estimate the odds ratios associated with belonging to each ranking group, using Group A as the reference category. The results showed that higher-ranked teams were more likely to use overhead pass reception, involve the outside hitter near the setter during serve reception, execute faster offensive patterns, and achieve greater attack effectiveness. These findings indicate that side-out organization, especially reception type, receiver role, attack tempo, and attack outcome, discriminates teams according to final ranking position in elite Brazilian U-17 male volleyball. Training programs for youth volleyball should therefore emphasize side-out quality through reception stability, offensive speed, and effective attack execution.		[Hofman, Natan Borges] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Sul, Lab Estudos Multidisciplinares Esporte, Porto Alegre, Brazil; [Laporta, Lorenzo; Deutner, Julia Goerck] Univ Fed Santa Maria, Nucleo Estudos Performance Anal Esport, Santa Maria, Brazil; [Schons, Pedro; Kruel, Luiz Fernando Martins] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Sul, Grp Pesquisa Aquat & Terr, Porto Alegre, Brazil; [Schons, Pedro] Fac Sogipa, Porto Alegre, Brazil; [Berriel, Guilherme Pereira] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Sul, Confederacao Brasileira Voleibol, Grp Pesquisa Aquat & Terr, Porto Alegre, Brazil; [Costa, Gustavo de Conti Teixeira] Univ Fed Goias, Nucleo Estudo & Pesquisa Avancada Esportes, Goiania, Brazil; [Leonardi, Thiago Jose] Univ Estadual Campinas, Grp Estudos Pedag Esporte, Campinas, Brazil; [Leonardi, Thiago Jose] Univ Estadual Campinas, Grp Estudos Pedag Esporte, Campinas, Brazil								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001849677600001	44	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Severin, Jannik; Nolte, Simon; Abel, Thomas; Schapschroer, Marlen								Beyond the growth spurt: Maturity offset, test performance, and squad attainment in youth track and field jumpers								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261476571				2026	Evidence on maturity-performance associations beyond the growth spurt in youth track and field jumpers remains limited. This study aimed to 1) quantify associations between maturity offset and performance in post-age at peak height velocity jumpers and their age-related variation, and 2) compare maturity timing and performance across squad levels. Retrospective multi-site data from the German Athletics Association were analyzed (791 observations from 581 jumpers; 15.4 +/- 1.1 y). Maturity offset was estimated using non-invasive Mirwald equations, and analyses were restricted to post-age at peak height velocity observations. Outcomes included sprints, jumps, power-oriented throwing and 12-min run test. Associations were analyzed using linear mixed-effects models, adjusted for chronological age and sex. Effect estimates were reported as percentage differences from performance means for cross-test comparison and practical interpretation. In a subsample, adjusted mixed models assessed squad-differences. Associations were test-specific. Forward shot throw showed the clearest effect, with improvements of 11.9% (95% CI: 9.2, 14.6) in males and 7.7% (95% CI: 5.3, 10.1) in females per additional year of maturity offset at the centered age, with effects attenuating with age. Sprint and countermovement jump outcomes showed effects close to zero. Endurance and reactive/technical tests showed complex patterns with wide confidence intervals. Estimated maturity timing was 0.18 years (95% CI: 0.03, 0.33) earlier in higher squads, which outperformed lower squads in reactive jumps and selected sprint splits. These findings support maturity-informed, discipline-specific interpretation of test batteries in post-age at peak height velocity jumpers and the value of longitudinal monitoring for equitable talent development.		[Severin, Jannik; Abel, Thomas; Schapschroer, Marlen] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Movement & Neurosci, Cologne, Germany; [Nolte, Simon] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Exercise Training & Sport Informat, Cologne, Germany; [Severin, Jannik] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Movement & Neurosci, Cologne, Germany								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001849906000001	63	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Delaney, Darren; McGuire, Amy; Warrington, Giles; Doyle, Lorna								Roles and expectations related to relative energy deficiency in sport (REDs) - A survey assessing the perceptions of REDs between athletes, coaches, and support staff								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261474795				2026	Since the introduction of relative energy deficiency in sport (REDs) in 2014, research has primarily focused on athletes' experiences of REDs symptomatology and consequences, limiting understanding beyond athletes' perspective. This study assessed the relationship between athletes' expectations of coaching and support staff in relation to REDs, and staff members' perceptions of athletes' REDs experiences. Two interrelated questionnaires were implemented in a mixed-methods cross-sectional study: the Athlete- and Coach-Centric Questionnaires. 101 respondents participated, comprising 56 athletes and 45 coaching and support staff. Awareness of REDs was reported by 31 (55%) athletes and 33 (73%) coaching and support staff. Among athletes, 31 (55%) expected coaches to be aware of REDs symptoms, while 35 (62%) expected awareness of REDs consequences. Only 8 (18%) staff members reported the presence of a REDs assessment, and 10 (22%) a REDs treatment responsibility in their sporting organisation. Qualitative analysis highlighted the importance of the coach-athlete relationship in delivering individualised REDs care. Athletes reported negative coaching practices, and expected to receive limited support, while coaching and support staff highlighted that REDs symptoms were often unreported by athletes. Staff also felt that REDs was under-supported by national governing bodies (NGBs), limiting their potential to positively influence REDs experiences. Further exploration of REDs-specific education for coaching and support staff, athletes, and NGBs is warranted.		[Delaney, Darren; Doyle, Lorna] Southeast Technol Univ, Dept Sport & Exercise Sci, Waterford, Ireland; [McGuire, Amy] Technol Univ Shannon, ACT Res Grp, Thurles, Ireland; [Warrington, Giles] Univ Limerick, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Limerick, Ireland; [Warrington, Giles] Univ Limerick, Hlth Res Inst, Sport & Human Performance Res Ctr, Limerick, Ireland; [Delaney, Darren] Southeast Technol Univ, Dept Sport & Exercise Sci, Waterford X91KOEK, Ireland								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001849913900001	83	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Fawcett, Louise; Martin, James; James, Steven; Soundy, Andrew; Heneghan, Nicola R.; Rushton, Alison								Diagnostic accuracy of patient history and clinical examination to identify pathology in the lumbar spine of elite gymnasts with MRI as the reference standard								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				81						101970	10.1016/j.ptsp.2026.101970			SEP 2026	2026	Objective: To evaluate the diagnostic accuracy of patient history and physical examination for diagnosing common causes of low back pain in elite gymnasts, using MRI as the reference standard. Design: Prospective cross-sectional study reported according to STARD guidelines. Index tests were acquired by an experienced musculoskeletal physiotherapist blinded to imaging. MRI scans were independently analysed by two specialist musculoskeletal radiologists. Setting: MRI centre, Birmingham, UK. Participants: Non-probability consecutive total-population sample of elite gymnasts, regardless of low back pain status. Main outcome measures: Sensitivity and specificity of individual index tests and exploratory test clusters. Results: Forty participants consented; 75% had abnormal MRI findings. Most specific findings were 'eased by flexion' and 'erector spinae hypertrophy' for degenerative disc disease, 'erector spinae hypertrophy', 'pain on flexion in standing', and 'pain on extension/left side flexion' for disc herniation, 'pain on flexion in standing' plus 'pain on extension/left side flexion' for pars oedema/spondylolysis; and 'eased by flexion' with the same cluster for spondylolisthesis. Conclusions: Highly specific index tests and exploratory clusters showed diagnostic accuracy for identifying gymnasts without degenerative disc disease, disc herniation, and pars oedema/spondylolysis. All gymnasts were recruited regardless of low back pain; these findings need to be considered cautiously when applied clinically.		[Fawcett, Louise] Lilleshall Natl Sports Ctr, UK Sports Inst, Head Olymp Performance Support, Newport TF10 9AT, Shrops, England; [Fawcett, Louise; James, Steven; Heneghan, Nicola R.] Univ Birmingham, Sch Sport Exercise & Rehabil Sci, Birmingham, England; [Martin, James] Univ Birmingham, Dept Appl Hlth Sci, Biostat, Birmingham, England; [James, Steven] Royal Orthopaed Hosp, Dept Radiol, Birmingham, England; [Soundy, Andrew] Univ Birmingham, Sch Sport Exercise & Rehabil Sci, Physiotherapy, Birmingham, England; [Rushton, Alison] Western Univ, Sch Phys Therapy, London, ON, Canada; [Rushton, Alison] Univ Birmingham, Ctr Precis Rehabil Spinal Pain, Sch Sport Exercise & Rehabil Sci, Birmingham, England; [Fawcett, Louise] Lilleshall Natl Sports Ctr, UK Sports Inst, Newport TF10 9AT, England								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001851280200001	49	Article; Article		
J	Lubello, Pasquale								Towards a New-Institutional Analysis of Sport Rules: The Case of Volleyball								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS											10.1177/15270025261474510				2026	Since its emergence, sport economics has been influenced by contributions from microeconomics and its various research fronts. As a result, sport has been studied primarily as a market product. Despite the rapid progression of the discipline, the contribution of new institutional economics appears to be still limited. While studies on the managerial aspects of professional sport exist, particularly those using transaction cost theory, the economic literature on the evolution of the rules of the game over time seems underdeveloped. In this paper, we seek to address this gap by proposing a Northian approach to sport and by applying this theoretical framework to volleyball and its regulatory evolution. Regulatory evolution is analysed here as the result of both path-dependent dynamics and strategic behaviour by organisations. The specific focus on volleyball reflects both a personal interest and a complete lack of analyses of this nature regarding this sport.		[Lubello, Pasquale] Univ Montpellier, Inst Agro, MoISA, CIHEAM,IAMM,CIRAD,INRAE,IRD, Montpellier, France; [Lubello, Pasquale] Univ Montpellier, Inst Agro, MoISA, CIHEAM,IAMM,CIRAD,INRAE,IRD, Montpellier, France								0							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001849604100001	57	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Stewart, Douglas G.; Jowett, Sophia; Blagrove, Richard C.								Remote coaching: Coach and athlete perspectives in endurance sports								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261474763				2026	Remote coaching in endurance sports often involves coaches working with geographically distant athletes in a transactional way. This study aimed to explore remote coaching and its impact on coaching effectiveness. Semi-structured interviews were conducted with coaches (n = 10) and athletes (n = 10) who coached or trained remotely in endurance sports. Data were analysed using reflexive thematic analysis. Four interrelated themes characterised effective remote coaching: constructing strong relationships, individualisation, communication, and commercial context. Participants emphasised that effectiveness remained fundamentally relational; however, relational processes were reconfigured by digital communication and a lack of in-person meetings. Trust and connection were sustained through explicit communication agreements and deliberate relational effort rather than informal face-to-face interactions. Individualisation extended beyond tailored training plans to include capturing athletes' subjective experiences alongside performance data. Communication functioned as a negotiated practice shaping expectations of responsiveness and responsibility. Additionally, the commercial nature of remote coaching influenced perceptions of value and sustainability, contributing to the fragility of coaching relationships. These findings suggest that remote endurance coaching should not be conceptualised as an extension of face-to-face coaching, but as a distinct relational and commercial setting. The findings of this study can be used to better understand how coaches and athletes operate in remote coaching settings and pave the way for more research in an area of coaching that is expanding.		[Stewart, Douglas G.; Blagrove, Richard C.] Loughborough Univ, Sch Sport Exercise & Hlth Sci, Loughborough, England; [Jowett, Sophia] Guildhall Sch Mus & Drama, London, England; [Jowett, Sophia] Tandem Performance Consulting, London, England; [Stewart, Douglas G.] Loughborough Univ, Sch Sport Exercise & Hlth Sci, Loughborough, England								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001848540300001	67	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Rodriguez-Idiazabal, Lander; Casals, Marti; Moreno-Doutres, Daniel; Barrio, Irantzu; Sanz, Pablo								Data-driven role identification and role-specific performance evaluation in the NBA								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261471893				2026	The positionless evolution of modern NBA basketball has challenged traditional player classifications, motivating the need for frameworks that identify functional roles and evaluate performance within those roles. However, existing approaches often overlook the richness of play-type frequency data and rarely extend beyond role identification to evaluate role-specific performance. This study proposes a two-step framework to: (i) identify player roles using play-type and advanced metrics; and (ii) assess player performance conditional on these roles. Data from 422 players during the first portion of the 2025-26 NBA regular season were analyzed. Principal component analysis was first applied for dimensionality reduction, followed by k-means clustering to identify distinct player roles based on advanced metrics, shot distribution, and play-type frequencies. In a second step, player performance was evaluated within each role using action-specific efficiency metrics. Five distinct roles emerged: On-ball creators, Rim presences, Spot-up shooters, Off-ball shooters, and Post-up generators. These roles reflect the tactical structure of modern NBA offenses and emphasize the importance of skill-based rather than position-based player classification. Importantly, the proposed framework enables role-aware benchmarking by identifying the most efficient players within each role accounting for their specific on-court responsibilities. By linking role identification with role-specific evaluation, this approach offers a practical and interpretable tool for coaching staffs, analysts, and front offices. It provides insights and role-aware benchmarking for basketball organizations, which may serve as a resource to support in-season coaching decisions, evaluate potential roster fit, or guide player development.		[Rodriguez-Idiazabal, Lander; Barrio, Irantzu] Basque Ctr Appl Math, Computat & Appl Stat Grp, , Basque Country, Bilbao, Basque Country, Spain; [Casals, Marti] Univ Barcelona, Natl Inst Phys Educ Catalonia INEFC, Barcelona, Spain; [Casals, Marti] Univ Vic, Cent Univ Catalonia UV UCC, Fac Med, Sport & Phys Act Studies Ctr CEEAF, Barcelona, Spain; [Moreno-Doutres, Daniel] Club Joventut Badalona, Badalona, Spain; [Barrio, Irantzu] Univ Basque Country, Dept Math, UPV EHU, Leioa, Basque Country, Spain; [Sanz, Pablo] Basque Res & Technol Alliance, Ikerlan Technol Res Ctr, Distributed & Connected Intelligence Dept, Arrasate Mondragon, Basque Country, Spain; [Rodriguez-Idiazabal, Lander] Basque Ctr Appl Math, Computat & Appl Stat Grp, , Basque Country, Bilbao, Basque Country, Spain								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001845155800001	34	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Wu, Shuyuan; Zhang, Guojie; Shi, Yan; Zhan, Genghao; Zhang, Huaxing; Wang, Xiangyu; Wu, Hao								Anti-movement core training modulates abdominal antagonist co-activation and enhances trunk rotational kinematics in amateur golfers								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2026.2712637				2026	This randomised controlled trial investigated the effects of an 8-week anti-movement core training programme on phase-specific abdominal antagonist co-activation (CoA) and thorax-pelvis kinematics in amateur golfers. Participants were randomly allocated to an Experimental group (EXP, anti-movement core training), a traditional core training group (TCP), or a control group (CON). Training groups completed supervised sessions three times per week. Surface electromyography of the external oblique and 3D kinematics were recorded during the golf swing pre-and post-intervention. Results revealed that the EXP group demonstrated a unique phase-specific CoA modulation: significant preparatory increases during the takeaway and backswing, followed by rapid downregulation during the early downswing, which differed significantly from TCP (p < 0.05). While both EXP and TCP improved clubhead speed, only EXP significantly increased peak X-factor velocity and peak thorax rotational velocity (p < 0.05). Pelvic rotational velocity remained unchanged. Compared with traditional core training, anti-movement core training was associated with greater phase-specific modulation of external oblique co-activation and greater improvements in rotational kinematic variables. These findings suggest that incorporating multi-planar anti-movement core exercises may be a useful approach for improving trunk movement coordination and golf swing performance in amateur golfers.		[Wu, Shuyuan; Wu, Hao] Capital Univ Phys Educ & Sports, Sch Kinesiol & Hlth, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Guojie] Hebei Sport Univ, Dept Social Sport, Shijiazhuang, Hebei, Peoples R China; [Shi, Yan] Capital Univ Phys Educ & Sports, Sch Phys Educ & Training, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Zhan, Genghao] Capital Univ Phys Educ & Sports, Sch Leisure & Social Sports, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Huaxing] City Univ, Fac Educ & Liberal Studies, Petaling Jaya, Malaysia; [Wang, Xiangyu] Capital Normal Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Wu, Hao] Capital Univ Phys Educ & Sports, Sch Kinesiol & Hlth, Beijing, Peoples R China								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001845446200001	48	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Machado, Guilherme; Gonzalez-Villora, Sixto; Reis Machado, Victor; Teoldo, Israel								"<i>Tiki-taka</i>" or "<i>Joga bonito</i>"? The differences of decision-making skills between Spanish and Brazilian U-18 elite youth male soccer players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261468551				2026	Decision-making (DM) skills are considered a key component of soccer performance and player development. This study aimed to analyse and compare DM quality and DM speed between Brazilian and Spanish U-18 elite male soccer players. A cross-sectional design was adopted, involving 163 players (Brazil: n = 88; Spain: n = 75) competing at the highest national level for their age category. DM skills were assessed using the TacticUP (R) platform, which evaluates decision accuracy (DM quality) and response time (DM speed) across offensive and defensive tactical principles. Group differences were examined using independent t-tests or Mann-Whitney tests, with effect sizes calculated to estimate the magnitude of differences. The results revealed that Brazilian players exhibited significantly higher DM quality in offensive situations without the ball, defensive principles inside the centre of play, as well as in defensive and general game contexts. In contrast, Spanish players demonstrated significantly faster DM speed in offensive principles outside and without the ball, defensive principles inside the centre of play, and in offensive and general contexts. These findings indicate distinct DM skill profiles between players developed in the two national contexts. In conclusion, Brazilian and Spanish U-18 elite players differ in how DM skills are expressed, with Brazilian players showing greater decision accuracy and Spanish players demonstrating faster decision responses. These results highlight the importance of considering national and developmental contexts when evaluating DM skills and may inform the design of training and competition environments within youth talent development programmes.		[Machado, Guilherme; Reis Machado, Victor; Teoldo, Israel] Univ Fed Vicosa UFV, Ctr Res & Studies Soccer NUPEF, Dept Phys Educ, Vicosa, Brazil; [Machado, Guilherme; Gonzalez-Villora, Sixto] Univ Castilla La Mancha, Fac Educ, EDAF Res Grp, Albacete, Spain; [Machado, Guilherme] Paulista Football Federat FPF, Dept Athletes Integrat & Dev, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Machado, Guilherme] Paulista Football Federat FPF, Dept Athletes Integrat & Dev, Sao Paulo, Brazil								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001841773200001	41	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Marcos-Rivero, Bingen; Picabea, Jon Mikel; Pinedo-Jauregi, Aitor; Granados, Cristina; Ascondo, Josu; Yanci, Javier								Temporal dynamics of external load in high-level amateur padel match play								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261470206				2026	The aim of this study was to analyze the evolution of external load during official competition in high-level amateur padel players. A total of 45 individual records from 12 players were collected using IMU and GPS sensors (WIMU Pro) during competitive matches. External load variables were analyzed for the entire match and segmented by sets (S1, S2, and S3), considering both absolute and relative per-minute values of effective playing time. The results showed a significant reduction in several absolute external load variables across sets, particularly from the first set to subsequent sets. In contrast, when variables were expressed relative to effective playing time, fewer differences were observed between sets, indicating a relative stability in effort intensity throughout the match. These findings provide novel evidence on the evolution of external load in amateur padel and highlight the importance of considering effective playing time as a determining factor for the accurate interpretation of physical demands and performance monitoring in competitive contexts.		[Marcos-Rivero, Bingen; Pinedo-Jauregi, Aitor; Granados, Cristina; Ascondo, Josu; Yanci, Javier] Univ Basque Country UPV EHU, Fac Educ & Sport, Dept Phys & Sports Educ, AKTIBOki Res Grp Phys Act Exercise & Sport, Vitoria 01007, Spain; [Marcos-Rivero, Bingen; Picabea, Jon Mikel; Pinedo-Jauregi, Aitor; Granados, Cristina; Ascondo, Josu; Yanci, Javier] Univ Basque Country UPV EHU, Fac Educ & Sport, Phys Educ & Sport Dept, Soc Sports & Phys Exercise Res Grp GIKAFIT, Vitoria, Spain; [Picabea, Jon Mikel; Pinedo-Jauregi, Aitor] Biocruces Bizkaia Hlth Res Inst, Vitoria, Spain; [Picabea, Jon Mikel] Univ Basque Country UPV EHU, Fac Educ & Sport, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Portal Lasarte 71, Vitoria 01007, Spain								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001841654700001	29	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Dickinson, B.; Jones, P.; Comfort, P.								Relationships between physical performance characteristics and match characteristics of English academy soccer players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261469980				2026	The aim of this study was to determine the relationships between physical performance and match characteristics of Elite academy soccer players using pooled data across U15, U16, U18, U23 age groups. Sixty elite academy soccer players including u15 (Subject: N = 15; age: 14.64 +/- 0.25; mass: 59.88 +/- 9.12 kg; height: 171 +/- 6.69 cm), u16 (Subject: N = 15; age: 15.42 +/- 0.36; mass: 65.11 +/- 8.70 kg; height: 175 +/- 7.21 cm), u18 (Subject: N = 15; age: 17.00 +/- 1.00; mass: 72.85 +/- 7.43 kg; height: 179 +/- 6.43 cm), u23 (Subject: N = 15; age: 19.60 +/- 0.85; mass: 77.47 +/- 7.03 kg; height: 181 +/- 7.69 cm) volunteered to participate in this study. Absolute eccentric hamstring strength indicated weak to moderate associations with maximum speed and explosive distance (ED) (r >= 0.33; p <= 0.048), while absolute isometric mid-thigh pull peak force was moderately correlated (r >= 0.41; p <= 0.004) with high-speed running (HSR), very high-speed running (VHSR), maximum speed and ED. Performance in the 10-5 repeated jump test demonstrated weak to moderate correlations (r >= 0.33; p <= 0.044) with HSR, VHSR, maximum speed and ED, countermovement jump and squat jump height exhibited weak to strong correlations with HSR, VHSR, max speed (r >= 0.31; p <= 0.045), aerobic fitness from the 30-15 intermittent fitness test demonstrated weak to moderate correlations with TD, ED, relative VHSR (r >= 0.32; p <= 0.048). Results from the correlations indicate moderate relationships between isometric, dynamic, aerobic, performance tests and match characteristics, however when testing results were expressed relative to body mass or match duration, weak to no correlations were seen. Although players with better developed physical qualities will have greater physical performance in match output, relative strength measures must be improved to further develop performance.		[Dickinson, B.; Jones, P.; Comfort, P.] Univ Salford, Directorate Psychol & Sport, Salford, England; [Dickinson, B.] Rotherham Football Club, Rotherham, England; [Comfort, P.] Edith Cowan Univ, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, Strength & Power Res Grp, Joondalup, WA, Australia; [Dickinson, B.] Univ Salford, Directorate Psychol & Sport, Frederick Rd, Salford, England								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001840360000001	45	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Fitrianna, Hafizh; Yuliansah, Yuliansah; Kristanto, Yunus Agung								Why do we start-and stop-exercising? Exploring the enactive and vicarious mechanisms in fitness apps								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP											10.1108/IJSMS-03-2026-0185				2026	Purpose This study examines how gamification features in fitness apps shape users' intention to exercise regularly and why such motivation often fails to develop into sustained exercise behavior. Drawing on social cognitive theory, it explains how achievement-based and social-based features operate through enactive and vicarious learning to strengthen self-efficacy. Design/methodology/approach A two-study design was employed. Study 1 used a quantitative survey of Strava users to test the relationships among achievement-based features, social-based features, self-efficacy and intention to exercise regularly. Study 2 used semi-structured interviews to corroborate and extend the quantitative findings by exploring why app-generated motivation often weakens before becoming routine behavior. Findings Achievement-based and social-based features significantly increase the intention to exercise regularly. Self-efficacy showed stronger mediation for social-based features, whereas its mediating role for achievement-based features was weak. Furthermore, achievement-based features provide mastery cues that support active learning, while social-based features stimulate vicarious learning through peer visibility and social persuasion. However, qualitative findings reveal a clear gap between intention and behavioral routine: gamification features often actually act as barriers to motivation for regular exercise, in addition to the internal and external barriers users face. Originality/value This study expands the gamification literature by showing that the motivational effects generated by gamification features tend to be fragile and depend on how users perceive the value of the features they use. This study conceptualizes fitness apps as digital learning environments where achievement-and social-based features shape self-efficacy through enactive and vicarious pathways. The value of this study lies in showing the limited role of fitness apps as tools for sustainable exercise behavior intervention.		[Fitrianna, Hafizh] Univ Negeri Yogyakarta, Dept Management, Yogyakarta, Indonesia; [Yuliansah, Yuliansah] Univ Negeri Yogyakarta, Dept Adm Educ, Yogyakarta, Indonesia; [Kristanto, Yunus Agung] Univ Negeri Yogyakarta, Dept Business & Finance, Yogyakarta, Indonesia; [Kristanto, Yunus Agung] Univ Jenderal Soedirman, Dept Management, Purwokerto, Indonesia; [Fitrianna, Hafizh] Univ Negeri Yogyakarta, Dept Management, Yogyakarta, Indonesia								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001838612700001	86	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Weerasinghe, Kalani; Jayawardena, Ranil; Williams, Andrew; Hills, Andrew P.								Behind the performance: How cultural and system-level factors shape injury experiences in track and field athletes in low-middle-income settings								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261472756				2026	Track and field athletes experience a high injury burden affecting physical health, psychological wellbeing, and career progression. While quantitative studies have documented injury incidence and risk factors, limited qualitative research explains how cultural norms, communication practices, and system-level constraints shape injury experiences, particularly in low- and middle-income country (LMIC) settings. This study aimed to explore how cultural expectations, social relationships, communication networks, and structural conditions influence injury reporting, training behaviours, and recovery experiences among Sri Lankan track and field athletes. This qualitative analysis drew on in-depth, semi-structured interviews with elite and highly trained track and field athletes and key stakeholders, including coaches, physiotherapists, sports medicine practitioners, sports administrators, and parents. All interviews were conducted face-to-face or online, audio-recorded, and transcribed verbatim. Data were analysed using reflexive thematic analysis and interpreted within the socio-ecological model (SEM). SEM mapping revealed that injury experiences were shaped by influences across individual, interpersonal, organisational, community, and system levels, captured in five interrelated themes: (I) social and cultural pressures shaping injury behaviour; (II) injury underreporting and overtraining; (III) barriers and facilitators to injury prevention; (IV) quality of athlete support and communication networks; and (V) system-level challenges in injury management. Athletes described a performance-oriented culture that normalised pain, leading to injury concealment and continued training despite inadequate recovery. Coach-centred and fragmented communication, financial insecurity, limited access to specialised care, and weak organisational infrastructure further constrained prevention and rehabilitation. Effective injury prevention in LMIC contexts requires context-sensitive, multidisciplinary strategies that strengthen communication, address structural barriers, and prioritise athlete health alongside performance.		[Weerasinghe, Kalani; Williams, Andrew; Hills, Andrew P.] Univ Tasmania, Sch Hlth Sci, UTAS Hlth, Launceston, Tas, Australia; [Weerasinghe, Kalani; Jayawardena, Ranil] Univ Colombo, Fac Med, Dept Physiol, Colombo, Sri Lanka; [Weerasinghe, Kalani] Univ Tasmania, Sch Hlth Sci, UTAS Hlth, Launceston, Tas, Australia								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001838334500001	44	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Burke Jr, Orett C.; Milano, Molly E.; Onor Jr, Gabriel I.; Hetznecker, Lydia; Megafu, Michael; Justice, William L.; Lemme, Nicholas J.; Omole, Korede O.; Pedowitz, David I.								Epidemiology of Achilles tendon ruptures in the United States: 2019 to 2024								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE											10.1080/00913847.2026.2710601				2026	Background The Achilles tendon (AT) is the strongest tendon in the human body; however, the incidence of Achilles tendon ruptures (ATRs) continues to rise. This study aimed to update the epidemiology of ATRs in the United States from 2019 to 2024, with emphasis on demographic patterns and mechanisms of injury. Methods Patients presenting to the emergency department with ATRs from 2019 to 2024 were identified using the National Electronic Injury Surveillance System database. Demographic variables including age, sex, and race were extracted, and national incidence estimates were calculated. Injury mechanisms were analyzed overall and in subgroup analyses stratified by demographic characteristics. Results An estimated 31,549 ATRs occurred in the United States during the study period, with significant variation over time (p < 0.001). Males accounted for 86.31% of all ruptures (p < 0.001). The highest incidence occurred in the 20-39-year age group for both males and females, with incidence rates of 6.10 (95% CI, 6.01-6.19) and 0.89 (95% CI, 0.86-0.93) per 100,000 person-years, respectively. White (38.21%) and Black (29.28%) individuals comprised the largest proportion of reported cases. Basketball was the most common sport leading to ATRs for men, ages <60 years, and most races included in this study. Conclusion Young male patients (20 to 39-years-old) who participate in recreational sports continue to be at the highest risk for ATRs. Basketball was associated with most of the ATRs for males and individuals between ages <60 years, while ball sports/other (ie, pickleball, etc.) was popular among individuals 60+ years and females. The results of this study emphasize the need for raising awareness among high-risk individuals to promote injury prevention.		[Burke Jr, Orett C.] Tufts Med Ctr, Dept Orthoped Surg, 800 Washington St, Boston, MA 02111 USA; [Milano, Molly E.; Hetznecker, Lydia] Thomas Jefferson Univ, Sidney Kimmel Med Coll, Philadelphia, PA USA; [Onor Jr, Gabriel I.; Justice, William L.; Pedowitz, David I.] Thomas Jefferson Univ Hosp, Rothman Orthopaed Inst, Philadelphia, PA USA; [Megafu, Michael] UConn Hlth Ctr, Dept Orthoped Surg, Farmington, CT USA; [Lemme, Nicholas J.] Rush Univ, Med Ctr, Dept Orthoped Surg, Chicago, IL USA; [Omole, Korede O.] Univ Massachusetts, Dept Orthoped Surg, Worcester, MA USA; [Burke Jr, Orett C.] Tufts Med Ctr, Dept Orthoped Surg, 800 Washington St, Boston, MA 02111 USA								0							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001838011900001	24	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Refalo, Martin C.; Trexler, Eric T.; Helms, Eric R.								Effect of Dietary Protein on Fat-Free Mass in Energy Restricted, Resistance-Trained Individuals: An Updated Systematic Review With Meta-Regression								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				48	4			398	412		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000888			AUG 2026	2026	Individuals often restrict energy intake to lose fat mass (and body mass [BM]) while performing resistance training (RT) to retain fat-free mass (FFM). Therefore, the aim of the present systematic review with meta-regression was to explore (a) the pattern and strength of the dose-response relationship between daily dietary protein intake and FFM change, and (b) whether intervention duration, energy deficit magnitude, baseline body fat percentage (BF%), and participant sex influence this relationship. Studies were included if they involved a standardized RT protocol with nonobese, energy-restricted (experiencing fat mass loss) individuals with a minimum of 3 months RT experience. Of 916 retrieved studies, data were extracted from a total of 29 studies. Bayesian methods were used to fit linear and nonlinear meta-regression models and estimate effect sizes, highest density credible intervals, and probabilities. Results suggest a >97% probability of a linear dose-response relationship between daily protein intake [g/kgBM: beta = 0.07 (95% highest density interval [HDI]: -0.01 to 0.14), and g/kg/FFM: beta = 0.06 (95% HDI: 0.01 to 0.12)] and favorable FFM changes. The relationship is stronger when protein intake is expressed relative to FFM, in interventions longer than 4 weeks, in men, and when BF% is lower. Overall, the heterogeneity between studies renders our findings exploratory.		[Refalo, Martin C.] Deakin Univ, Inst Phys Act & Nutr IPAN, Sch Exercise & Nutr Sci, Geelong, Australia; [Trexler, Eric T.] Duke Univ, Dept Evolutionary Anthropol, Durham, NC USA; [Helms, Eric R.] Auckland Univ Technol, Sport Performance Res Inst New Zealand SPRINZ, Auckland, New Zealand; [Helms, Eric R.] Florida Atlantic Univ, Dept Exercise Sci & Hlth Promot, Muscle Physiol Lab, Boca Raton, FL USA; [Refalo, Martin C.] Deakin Univ, Inst Phys Act & Nutr IPAN, Sch Exercise & Nutr Sci, Geelong, Australia								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:001838719000005	70	Article; Article		
J	Chang, Jisuk; Jeon, Minsoo								Analysis of knowledge structures in AI research within sports science using topic modeling: Focusing on SCI journals (2016-2026)								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261467868				2026	This study elucidates the chronological shifts in the knowledge structure of artificial intelligence research within sports science over the past decade. Analyzing 2737 SCI articles from the Web of Science (2016-2026), the research employed LDA-based topic modeling via Python 3.10.9 across three distinct phases: Phase 1 (2016-2019), Phase 2 (2020-2022), and Phase 3 (2023-2026). The results indicate that 'training' and 'performance' remained the dominant keywords throughout, underscoring AI's primary role in optimizing athletic output. Specifically, Phase 1 focused on high-intensity training and early machine learning for motion classification, while Phase 2 saw a surge in sophisticated action recognition driven by deep learning and wearable sensors. Phase 3 emerged with a focus on multi-dimensional performance analysis and machine learning-based injury risk prediction. Ultimately, the global knowledge structure is categorized into four domains: wearable-based action recognition, fatigue monitoring, injury risk analysis (e.g., concussions), and the development of rehabilitation systems. These findings demonstrate that AI in sports is evolving from simple data recording toward real-time monitoring and precision-based injury prevention systems.		[Chang, Jisuk] Dankook Univ, Dept Sport Management, Cheonan Si, South Korea; [Jeon, Minsoo] Dankook Univ, Dept Int Sport, Cheonan Si 31116, Chungcheongnam, South Korea; [Jeon, Minsoo] Dankook Univ, Dept Int Sport, Cheonan Si 31116, Chungcheongnam, South Korea								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001837069300001	25	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Farley, T.; Hogben, P.; McBride, L.; Williams, T.; Habets, H.; Baker, E. Bellairs; McHale, G.; Gidwani, J.; Phillips, T.; Raza, Y.; Durham, A.; Girdlestone, H.; Loosemore, M.								The effectiveness of two neck strengthening protocols on male and female amateur rugby players at enhancing isometric neck strength								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				81						101966	10.1016/j.ptsp.2026.101966			SEP 2026	2026	Objectives: To assess the effectiveness of two different neck strengthening protocols at increasing isometric neck strength in male and female rugby players. Design: Cluster randomised controlled trial. Setting: The team training facility of 3 amateur clubs. Participants: 142 male and female amateur rugby players were recruited to take part in the study. Main outcome measures: Isometric neck strength in flexion, extension, left and right side flexion, left and right rotation and sum of strength scores. Results: Changes in neck strength were analysed for within-group and between group differences. Relative to the control group the male Band resisted group recorded the largest strength gain with statistically significant increases in sum of strength scores (p = 0.002), extension (p = 0.034), right flexion (p = 0.004), left rotation (p <0.001) and right rotation scores (p < 0.001). The male Partner resisted group recorded improvements in left rotation (p < 0.001) and right rotation (p = 0.006). In the female band resisted group significant improvements in neck strength were recorded for sum of strength scores (p = 0.042), right rotation (p = 0.003) and left rotation (p = 0.005) however in the Partner resisted group significant improvements were recorded in right rotation only (p = 0.015). Conclusions: We have developed two time efficient and low cost neck strengthening protocols that demonstrate efficacy at enhancing neck strengthen in a team setting.		[Farley, T.; Baker, E. Bellairs; McHale, G.; Gidwani, J.; Phillips, T.; Raza, Y.; Durham, A.; Girdlestone, H.; Loosemore, M.] UCL, Inst Sport Exercise & Hlth, London, England; [Hogben, P.] Univ Birmingham, Birmingham, England; [McBride, L.] Univ Leicester, Leicester, England; [Williams, T.; Habets, H.] Pure Sports Med, London, England; [Farley, T.] UCL, Inst Sport Exercise & Hlth, London, England								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001841936300001	29	Article; Article		
J	Gonzalez, Adam M.; Escalante, Guillermo; Varovic, Dorian; Schwarz, Antonella V.; Rolnick, Nicholas; De Souza, Eduardo O.								Advanced Resistance Training Strategies for Bodybuilding: Tools for Muscle Hypertrophy								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				48	4			435	450		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000929			AUG 2026	2026	Maximizing muscle hypertrophy is a primary goal for bodybuilders and resistance-trained individuals, driving the exploration of advanced resistance training strategies that extend beyond traditional programming. This review comprehensively examines the theories, mechanisms, and practical applications of various advanced training techniques, including supersets, drop sets, lengthened partials, pre-exhaustion training, rest-pause training, forced repetitions, pyramidal training, interset stretching, and blood flow restriction. These methods aim to enhance mechanical tension, metabolic stress, and muscle activation in effort to promote muscle growth. Although many of these strategies offer time-efficient alternatives to conventional training, current evidence suggests that they do not consistently surpass traditional resistance training in muscle growth when volume is equated. Despite their widespread use in bodybuilding, research is often limited by short study durations, small sample sizes, and a lack of studies involving competitive bodybuilders. This review highlights key findings from existing literature, identifies gaps requiring further investigation, and provides practical recommendations for integrating advanced training strategies into evidence-based hypertrophy programs.		[Gonzalez, Adam M.] Hofstra Univ, Dept Allied Hlth & Kinesiol, Hempstead, NY 11549 USA; [Escalante, Guillermo] Calif State Univ San Bernardino, Coll Nat Sci, San Bernardino, CA 92407 USA; [Varovic, Dorian] Univ Zagreb, Fac Kinesiol, Zagreb, Croatia; [Schwarz, Antonella V.] Barry Univ, Dept Sport & Exercise Sci, Miami Shores, FL USA; [Rolnick, Nicholas] BFR PROS, New York, NY USA; [De Souza, Eduardo O.] Univ Tampa, Dept Hlth Sci & Human Performance, Tampa, FL USA; [Gonzalez, Adam M.] Hofstra Univ, Dept Allied Hlth & Kinesiol, Hempstead, NY 11549 USA								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:001838719000003	106	Article; Article		
J	Bell, Lee; Darragh, Ian A. J.; Travis, S. Kyle; Rogerson, David; Nolan, David								A Practical Approach to Deloading: Recommendations and Considerations for Strength and Physique Sports								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				48	4			413	423		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000910			AUG 2026	2026	Deloading is a period of reduced training stress where training demand is intentionally reduced to mitigate physiological and psychological fatigue and promote recovery. A deload is commonly implemented to enhance readiness for subsequent training and occurs between or during training phases. During a deload, training is typically modified by reducing the intensity of effort, training volume, duration, or frequency. Adjustments in exercise selection are based on recovery goals and the specific demands of the athlete's training. Deloads are commonly preplanned and implemented into the training program every 4-8 weeks based on the structure of the training cycle and recovery needs. Alternatively, deloads are sometimes applied reactively using an autoregulatory approach to accommodate unexpected fatigue or performance decrements. While deloading shares conceptual similarities with tapering and training cessation, it should be differentiated based on its objective, structure, and positionality with the overall training program. The purpose of this article is to describe the current research landscape, propose areas for future research, and to provide broad practical recommendations for implementing deloading within the strength and physique sports training program.		[Bell, Lee; Rogerson, David] Sheffield Hallam Univ, Sch Sport & Phys Act, Sheffield, England; [Darragh, Ian A. J.] RCSI Univ Med & Hlth Sci, Sch Populat Hlth, Dublin, Ireland; [Travis, S. Kyle] nosisX, Sci Med Innovat & Technol SMIT Lab, Elizabethton, TN USA; [Travis, S. Kyle] Liberty Univ, Sch Hlth Sci, Dept Allied Hlth Profess, Lynchburg, VA USA; [Nolan, David] Dublin City Univ, Sch Hlth & Human Performance, Dublin, Ireland; [Bell, Lee] Sheffield Hallam Univ, Sch Sport & Phys Act, Sheffield, England								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001838719000004	87	Article; Article		
J	Abadi, Efrat								Girls' preferences regarding coaches' democratic and autocratic leadership styles								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	4			2065	2077		10.1177/17479541251392193			AUG 2026	2026	Girls are integral members of the sporting community; however, their sports participation and development continue to be shaped by gender, age, and cultural factors. In Israel, the socio-cultural context presents unique challenges and experiences for young female athletes. However, little is known about their preferences regarding coaching behaviors and leadership styles. Given the central role of coaches in fostering girls' persistence in sports, this study examined the leadership style preferences of Israeli girls engaged in organized sports, with particular focus on democratic and autocratic coaching styles. Findings indicated that while some girls expressed a clear preference for a democratic leadership style, many showed flexibility and acceptance toward behaviors typically associated with autocratic leadership. Notably, participants emphasized the importance of situational leadership, suggesting that effective coaching requires adaptability to athletes' needs and context. These findings highlight the value of adopting a cultural lens when examining athletes' preferences. Additionally, the findings underscore the need for coach education programs to develop culturally responsive leadership practices that support girls' sustained engagement in sports.		[Abadi, Efrat] Univ Minnesota, Sch Kinesiol, Minneapolis, MN 55455 USA; [Abadi, Efrat] Kaye Acad Coll Educ, Dept Phys Educ, IL-8414201 Beer Sheva, Israel; [Abadi, Efrat] Kaye Acad Coll Educ, Dept Phys Educ, IL-8414201 Beer Sheva, Israel								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001611538900001	83	Article; Article		
J	Esteve-Lanao, Jonathan; Casado, Arturo; Arevalo-Chico, Hector; Selles-Perez, Sergio; Cejuela, Roberto								Polarized vs pyramidal training intensity distribution in recreational marathoners: A randomized controlled study								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261468168				2026	The purpose of this study was to quantify the impact of training intensity distribution (TID) on marathon performance in recreational endurance runners following a 16-week training program. Twenty runners were randomly assigned to either a polarized TID model (POL), or a pyramidal TID model (PYR). Weekly training load was matched between groups. Before the intervention (week -1), midway through the program (week 8), and at the end of the intervention (week 15), participants completed a constant-speed test to assess running economy (RE), as well as a maximal incremental test to determine metabolic thresholds, maximal oxygen uptake (VO2max), and maximal aerobic speed (MAS). A half-marathon race was performed at mid-intervention (week 8), and an official marathon race was completed at the end of the program (week 16). TID differed between groups (POL: 82/8/10%; PYR: 75/22/3% in zones 1/2/3, respectively). No significant between-group differences were observed in marathon performance (POL: 3 h 45 min +/- 21 s; PYR: 3 h 46 min +/- 22 s; p = 0.23) or in performance improvements during the simulated half marathon. Improvements in speeds associated with ventilatory threshold were similar in both groups. The PYR group demonstrated greater improvements in RE, whereas the POL group exhibited a smaller decline in running speed during the second half of the marathon. These findings reinforce the multifactorial nature of endurance performance and suggest that distinct physiological adaptations may lead to comparable competitive outcomes. An individualized approach based on prior physiological profiling may therefore optimize training prescription in recreational marathon runners.		[Esteve-Lanao, Jonathan] All In Your Mind Training Syst, Mexico City, Mexico; [Casado, Arturo] Rey Juan Carlos Univ, Ctr Sport Studies, Madrid, Spain; [Arevalo-Chico, Hector; Selles-Perez, Sergio; Cejuela, Roberto] Univ Alicante, Fac Educ, Phys Educ & Sports, San Vicente Del Raspeig 03690, Spain; [Arevalo-Chico, Hector] Univ Alicante, Fac Educ, Phys Educ & Sports, San Vicente Del Raspeig 03690, Spain								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001836817800001	29	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Kouki, Ahmed; Boudhiba, Driss; Negra, Yassine; Myers, Tony; Hammoudi, Sabra; Hachana, Younes								AI-Enhanced preliminary cross-cultural psychometric validation of the Arabic Buss-Perry Aggression Questionnaire (ABPAQ) in physical education students								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261463734				2026	The Buss-Perry Aggression Questionnaire is widely used in sport and exercise psychology, yet validated Arabic versions remain limited. This study aimed to provide an initial validation of an Arabic version (ABPAQ) in a sport-related population. A total of 660 university physical education students (307 males, 353 females; mean age = 21.46 +/- 1.96 years) participated. Construct validity was assessed using exploratory factor analysis (EFA) and confirmatory factor analysis (CFA). Additionally, classification models, including logistic regression, support vector machines, random forests, and na & iuml;ve Bayes, were applied to evaluate the ability of ABPAQ scores to distinguish aggression profiles. The mean total ABPAQ score was 88.00 +/- 18.00, with similar values across sexes. EFA supported a four-factor structure broadly consistent with the original questionnaire, while CFA provided partial support for this model. In parallel, all classification models showed high discriminative performance (AUC >= 0.99). Among them, na & iuml;ve Bayes achieved the lowest prediction error (RMSE = 0.141; MAE = 0.051), whereas support vector machines showed comparable performance (RMSE = 0.145; MAE = 0.052) and were retained for further analysis due to greater robustness. Based on the SVM model, a provisional raw-score cut-off of 68 was identified (AUC = 0.94). Overall, these findings provide preliminary support for the construct validity of the ABPAQ in physical education students. They also suggest that integrating traditional psychometric methods with data-driven classification approaches may enhance the practical utility of psychological assessment tools in sport and exercise contexts.		[Kouki, Ahmed; Negra, Yassine; Hammoudi, Sabra; Hachana, Younes] Univ La Manouba, Higher Inst Sport & Phys Educ Ksar Said, Res Lab LR23JS01 Sport Performance Hlth Soc, Manouba 2037, Tunisia; [Boudhiba, Driss] Univ Tunis, Fac Human & Social Sci Tunis, Lab Clin Psychol Intersubject & Culture LR16ES01, Tunis, Tunisia; [Myers, Tony] Newman Univ, Sport & Hlth, Birmingham, England; [Negra, Yassine] Univ La Manouba, Higher Inst Sport & Phys Educ Ksar Said, Res Lab LR23JS01 Sport Performance Hlth Soc, Manouba 2037, Tunisia								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001834762600001	66	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Elliott, Holly M.; Wilcox, Bethany J.; Samaan, Michael A.; Jochimsen, Kate N.								Hip joint power during a single leg squat is related to patient-reported function, physical activity, and symptom duration in individuals with chronic hip-Related pain								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				81						101968	10.1016/j.ptsp.2026.101968			SEP 2026	2026	Objectives: Analyze associations between lower extremity joint power during the eccentric and concentric phases of a single leg squat and hip symptom duration, hip function, and physical activity levels in individuals with hip joint-related groin pain. Design: The cross-sectional design of the current study is a secondary analysis of an observational study consisting of a cohort design. Setting: Biomechanics Laboratory. Participants: Twenty-five adults aged 18 to 45 years with current hip pain were recruited for this study. Main outcome measures: Participants self-reported quality of life and physical function using the iHOT-12, current activity level using the Tegner Activity Rating Scale, and hip symptom duration. Lower-limb joint power was calculated using three-dimensional biomechanics data. Spearman's correlation coefficients were used to examine the relationships between parameters. Results: Our study found that lower hip joint power during the eccentric and concentric phases of a single leg squat task were associated with worse hip function, lower physical activity levels, and a longer duration of hip symptoms. Conclusions: These findings highlight the importance of early intervention prior to the onset of severe muscle dysfunction that may lead to corresponding alterations in hip joint loading in individuals with hip joint-related pain.		[Elliott, Holly M.; Samaan, Michael A.] Univ Kentucky, Dept Kinesiol & Hlth Promot, Lexington, KY 40506 USA; [Wilcox, Bethany J.] Mass Gen Brigham, Dept Orthoped Surg, Boston, MA USA; [Wilcox, Bethany J.] Harvard Med Sch, Boston, MA USA; [Jochimsen, Kate N.] Harvard Med Sch, Dept Psychiat, Boston, MA USA; [Jochimsen, Kate N.] Massachusetts Gen Hosp, Ctr Hlth Outcomes & Interdisciplinary Res CHOIR, Boston, MA USA; [Samaan, Michael A.] Univ Kentucky, Dept Kinesiol & Hlth Promot, Lexington, KY 40506 USA								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001837719900001	38	Article; Article		
J	Kapelouzou, Alkistis; Leon, Grigorios; Christopoulou, Spyridoula; Braoudakis, Dimitrios								Improving antidoping education for coaches in Greece: A questionnaire-based study on knowledge gaps and recommendations for enhancement								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261463453				2026	Background Coaches play a critical role as athlete support personnel in shaping attitudes and behaviors related to clean sport. Despite their influence, evidence suggests that coaches' antidoping knowledge and operational readiness may be inconsistent, increasing the risk of inadvertent antidoping rule violations.Purpose This study aimed to assess baseline antidoping knowledge, awareness, and perceived ethical influences among coaches in Greece prior to participation in a structured antidoping education program, and to identify priority areas for targeted educational intervention.Methods A cross-sectional questionnaire was administered to 633 coaches from multiple sports disciplines between August 2023 and April 2024. The questionnaire assessed sociodemographic characteristics, awareness of antidoping organizations and rules, knowledge of prohibited substances, Therapeutic Use Exemptions (TUEs), testing procedures, supplement and medication risks, use of digital compliance tools, and ethical pressures related to performance. Descriptive statistics, chi-square tests, and 95% confidence intervals were used.Results While general awareness of antidoping organizations was high, substantial knowledge gaps were identified. Only 25.57% of respondents reported knowledge of the 11 antidoping rule violations, and 78.06% were unfamiliar with TUEs. Awareness and use of digital tools such as Global DRO and ADAMS were limited. Although most coaches rejected the use of unfair means, performance-related pressures emerged as a salient ethical influence. Supplement use was common, despite uncertainty regarding contamination risks.Conclusions The findings reveal important deficits in operational antidoping knowledge among coaches, particularly in areas associated with inadvertent doping risk and regulatory compliance. These results highlight the need for coach-focused education that emphasizes applied competence, ethical decision-making, and digital literacy.		[Kapelouzou, Alkistis; Leon, Grigorios; Christopoulou, Spyridoula; Braoudakis, Dimitrios] Hellen Republ Minist Educ & Religious Affairs, Maroussi, Greece; [Kapelouzou, Alkistis] Hellen Republ Minist Educ & Religious Affairs, Maroussi, Greece								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001832979000001	64	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Torregrosa-Dominguez, A.; Ramos-Veliz, R.; Olivares, P.; Fernandez-Ozcorta, E. J.								Relative age effect, career profiles, and peak market value in elite European football: A retrospective analysis								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261467863				2026	Relative Age Effect (RAE) systematically favors athletes born early in the competitive year. However, evidence of its persistence and possible reversal in elite football remains limited. This study examined whether RAE persists in Europe's top five football leagues and how birth quartile influences career trajectories and peak market value. Data from 9784 footballers who participated in the first divisions of England, France, Germany, Italy, and Spain between 2012-2013 through 2023-2024 seasons were analyzed. After applying positional filters, the final sample included 4866 players. Birth quartiles were determined according to national cut-off dates. The chi 2 test was used to assess the prevalence of RAE. A cluster analysis (k-means) identified empirical career profiles, and a General Linear Model (GLM) estimated the combined effects of quartile, career type, position, and minutes played on the logarithm of peak market value. RAE persisted significantly, with 30.8% of players born in the first quartile versus 19.4% in the fourth (ratio 1.59). Those born later (Q3-Q4) reached their peak market value at an older age. Four career profiles were identified (i.e., Superstars, Role Players, Squad Players, and Consolidated Elite), with different distributions by quartile. In the GLM, quartile remained a significant predictor of market value. RAE remains prevalent in the European youth development system. After controlling for covariates, later-born players who reach the elite showed a small but statistically significant advantage in adjusted peak market value. These findings suggest that early selection bias warrants structural reform to promote equitable talent development.		[Torregrosa-Dominguez, A.; Olivares, P.; Fernandez-Ozcorta, E. J.] Univ Huelva, Fac Educ Psicol & Ciencias Deporte, Dept Didact Integradas, Huelva, Spain; [Torregrosa-Dominguez, A.; Ramos-Veliz, R.] Univ CEU Fernando III, Fac Ciencias Deporte, Dept Ciencias Act Fis & Deporte, Bormujos, Spain; [Ramos-Veliz, R.] Univ CEU Fernando III, Fac Ciencias Deporte, Dept Ciencias Act Fis & Deporte, Bormujos, Spain								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001827176700001	35	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Kim, Beomsoo; Chun, Sabin; Han, Soo-Ji; Park, Jongchul								Elbow joint loading and spatiotemporal performance under different hand positions during the forward handspring								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2026.2700671				2026	This study examined how different hand positions influence key biomechanical characteristics of elbow joint loading and performance during the forward handspring. Nine adolescent male gymnasts performed five trials using parallel (PHP) and outward (OHP) hand positions. Kinematic and kinetic data were collected using eight infrared cameras (250 Hz) and two force plates (1,000 Hz), with analysis conducted on the arm in contact with the force plate. The OHP produced greater maximum vertical and resultant ground reaction forces and net vertical impulse than the PHP, while exhibiting a shorter contact time. As a result, vertical velocity at take-off, change in centre of mass height, and flight time increased, indicating mechanical characteristics favourable for forward handspring performance. Meanwhile, the OHP exhibited greater elbow adduction moments, suggesting higher elbow joint loading. In contrast, the PHP attenuated elbow joint loading through greater flexion and internal rotation, facilitating shock absorption and propulsion over a longer contact time. This was reflected in greater negative and positive elbow joint work in the PHP than in the OHP, despite similar net joint work. These findings suggest that hand position selection may involve a balance between performance and elbow joint loading, highlighting its importance during the forward handspring.		[Kim, Beomsoo] Korea Inst Sport Sci, Dept Sport Sci, Seoul, South Korea; [Chun, Sabin] Texas Womans Univ, Biomech & Motor Behav Lab, Denton, TX USA; [Han, Soo-Ji] Pukyong Natl Univ, Ind Univ Cooperat Fdn, Pusan, South Korea; [Park, Jongchul] Pukyong Natl Univ, Div Smart Healthcare, Major Marine Sports, Pusan, South Korea; [Park, Jongchul] Pukyong Natl Univ, Div Smart Healthcare, Major Marine Sports, Pusan, South Korea								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001826690800001	44	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Valerio, Matheus Maron; Chiviacowsky, Suzete; Cardozo, Priscila; Drews, Ricardo								Effects of conceptions of ability on the learning of a sport motor skill in a self-controlled feedback condition								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261467990				2026	Learners' conception of their ability is a motivational variable that has been shown to influence motor learning. Learners induced to hold a fixed conception of their ability usually exhibit lower perceived competence and poorer learning relative to participants induced to hold a malleable view of their skill. The aim of the present study was to investigate the effects of conceptions of ability on the learning of a sport motor skill in a self-controlled feedback condition. The participants were divided into three groups and received instructions that induced a fixed (Fixed group), malleable (Malleable group), or no conception of ability (Control group) while learning a golf putting task. After a pre-test, the participants performed 60 practice trials and were allowed to request feedback during practice according to their own needs and preferences. One day later, retention and transfer tests were performed to observe learning. Questionnaires measured motivation and preferences for feedback requests. No significant differences were found between groups in terms of self-efficacy, feedback frequency, and motor performance and learning. Participants in all groups preferred to request feedback mainly after good trials. The findings suggest that learners' satisfaction with their autonomy and competence needs, resulting from choices regarding feedback, counteracts the negative effects of the fixed conception of ability. The results further highlight the important motivational role of feedback in motor learning.		[Valerio, Matheus Maron; Chiviacowsky, Suzete; Cardozo, Priscila; Drews, Ricardo] Univ Fed Pelotas, Sch Phys Educ, Pelotas, Brazil; [Drews, Ricardo] Univ Fed Uberlandia, Fac Phys Educ & Physiotherapy, Uberlandia, Brazil; [Drews, Ricardo] Univ Fed Santa Maria, Ctr Phys Educ & Sport, Santa Maria, Brazil; [Drews, Ricardo] Univ Fed Santa Maria, Rua Roraima,1000, BR-97105900 Santa Maria, Brazil								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001826031700001	67	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	McGleenan, Eamon; Grant, Samuel D. T.; McFetridge, Lisa M.; Brown, Jack C. J.; Hawkins, Richard; Melo Malaquias, Tiago de; Montgomery, Ruth; McCann, Richard; Jess, David B.								In-situ PFv profiling in sub-elite gaelic football: Implementation, comparison with isolated sprints, minimum data load requirements, and exploring "real-time" monitoring potential								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261468202				2026	In-game performance monitoring is of growing interest to sports science practitioners. This study presents a proof-of-concept methodology capable of tracking, on average, a 6.4% reduction in ballistic power () during competitive matches. The study investigated the linearity of in-situ profiles in 34 sub-elite Gaelic footballers (aged 26.08 6.84 years), compared in-situ to isolated sprint-derived profiles, determined minimum data requirements for producing stable, high-linearity profiles, and explored the utility of in-game monitoring. Linearity was comparable to previous studies, with profiles values of for match data and for training data. Consistent, systematic differences were observed between in-situ and isolated profiles using Cohen's . Acceleration (; ) was significantly higher in-situ, while maximum power (; ) and the offset (; ) were significantly lower, highlighting the two profiles are not interchangeable. Maximum speeds () exhibited context-dependent variance, being larger in matches than in isolated sprints ( m s-1 versus m s-1; ), but lower in training ( m s-1; , ). Minimum data load was determined via two methods: the time for to reach (12-minutes) and the geometric knee of the versus data load curve (7-minutes). Using these sliding windows, showed average reductions of 4.9% and 6.4%, respectively, across a full game. These findings suggest profiling may offer a practical, scalable method for in-situ performance monitoring in team sports.		[McGleenan, Eamon; Grant, Samuel D. T.; McFetridge, Lisa M.; Brown, Jack C. J.; Jess, David B.] Queens Univ Belfast, Predict Sports Analyt, Belfast BT7 1NN, North Ireland; [Hawkins, Richard] Liverpool Football Club, Anfield Rd, Liverpool L4 0TH, England; [Melo Malaquias, Tiago de] Al Qadsiah Football Club, Al Khobar, Saudi Arabia; [Montgomery, Ruth] STATSports Grp Ltd, Drumalane Mill, Newry BT35 8QS, North Ireland; [McCann, Richard] Irish Football Assoc IFA, Donegall Ave, Belfast BT12 6LU, North Ireland; [McGleenan, Eamon] Queens Univ Belfast, Predict Sports Analyt, Belfast BT7 1NN, North Ireland								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001826023600001	32	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Michalak, Margaret M.; Cronin, John; Ryan, Chloe M.; Rumpf, Michael; O'Brien, Daniel; Slocum, Christopher								Eccentric cycling for ACL-R rehabilitation: A masterclass								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				81						101965	10.1016/j.ptsp.2026.101965			SEP 2026	2026	Eccentric training is a well-established method for developing strength and its implementation has become increasingly common in anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction (ACL-R) rehabilitation. Although traditionally introduced in later stages of recovery, early progressive eccentric exercise has been investigated from approximately three weeks post-operation in selected patients, with evidence suggesting potential benefits for quadriceps atrophy and strength deficits. Beyond improving strength, eccentric training may also enhance performance in return-to-sport (RTS) assessments. However, its implementation should be gradual and individualized, with consideration of clinical status and loading tolerance, particularly during the early phases of rehabilitation. Eccentric recumbent cycling offers a practical solution, allowing clinicians to monitor power outputs and regulate intensity through rate of perceived exertion (RPE) scales. This article explores the benefits of integrating eccentric cycling into ACL-R rehabilitation and outlines an exemplar eccentric cycling program.		[Michalak, Margaret M.; Cronin, John; Ryan, Chloe M.; Rumpf, Michael; O'Brien, Daniel] Auckland Univ Technol, Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand, Hlth & Environm Sci, Auckland, New Zealand; [Michalak, Margaret M.; Cronin, John; Slocum, Christopher] Athlete Training & Hlth, Cypress, TX USA; [Ryan, Chloe M.] Toi Ohomai Inst Technol, Fac Hlth Educ & Environm, Dept Sport & Fitness, Tauranga, New Zealand; [Rumpf, Michael] Friedrich Alexander Univ, Dept Sport Sci & Sport, Erlangen, Germany; [Michalak, Margaret M.] 27646 Northwest Fwy, Cypress, TX 77433 USA								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001829216900001	28	Article; Article		
J	Liu, Weipeng; Wang, Zilong; Dos'Santos, Thomas; Li, Weichao; Zheng, Weihua; Pan, Hongtao; Li, Wenhua								Combined physical and mental fatigue induces multiplanar knee biomechanical alterations during unanticipated sidestep cutting in highly trained male soccer players: A randomized crossover trial								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				81						101963	10.1016/j.ptsp.2026.101963			SEP 2026	2026	Objectives: To investigate the effects of combined physical and mental fatigue (PMF) on knee biomechanics during unanticipated sidestep cutting in male soccer players. Design: Randomized crossover trial. Setting: Biomechanics laboratory. Main outcome measures: knee angles at initial contact (IC), range of motion (ROM), peak knee moments, three-dimensional ground reaction force (GRF), weight acceptance (WA) duration, and loading rate (LR) during the WA phase. Results: Significant fatigue condition & times; time interactions were observed for knee flexion (p < 0.001) and abduction angle at IC (p < 0.001), WA duration (p = 0.003), peak knee abduction moment (p < 0.001), peak vertical GRF (p = 0.014), and LR (p = 0.016). Post hoc analyses showed that PMF increased knee abduction angle at IC (p < 0.001), peak knee abduction moment (p < 0.001), peak vertical GRF (p = 0.012), and LR (p = 0.006), while decreasing knee flexion angle at IC (p < 0.001) and WA duration (p < 0.001). Conclusions: PMF resulted in greater alterations in knee biomechanics during unanticipated sidestep cutting compared with isolated fatigue states. These findings suggest that the combined effects of physical and cognitive fatigue should be considered when evaluating biomechanical responses during cognitively demanding motor tasks.		[Liu, Weipeng; Li, Wenhua] Shenyang Sport Univ, Sch Strength & Conditioning, 36 Jinqiansong East Rd, Shenyang 110102, Liaoning, Peoples R China; [Wang, Zilong] Jimei Univ, Sch Phys Educ, Xiamen, Peoples R China; [Dos'Santos, Thomas] Manchester Metropolitan Univ, Manchester Metropolitan Inst Sport, Dept Sport & Exercise Sci, Manchester, England; [Li, Weichao] Shenyang Sport Univ, Coll Exercise & Hlth, Shenyang, Peoples R China; [Zheng, Weihua] Shenyang Sport Univ, Sch Social Sports, Shenyang, Peoples R China; [Pan, Hongtao] Shenyang Sport Univ, Sch Football, Shenyang, Peoples R China; [Li, Wenhua] Shenyang Sport Univ, Sch Strength & Conditioning, 36 Jinqiansong East Rd, Shenyang 110102, Liaoning, Peoples R China								1							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001827140900001	80	Article; Article		
J	Renner, Alexander								Classic and equipped powerlifting in the International Powerlifting Federation: Participation and performance trends from 2010 to 2025								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261467968				2026	Classic and equipped powerlifting are the two main competition formats within the International Powerlifting Federation (IPF), but their comparative long-term development has not been described systematically. This study examined participation and performance trends in both formats using two complementary datasets: an IPF-restricted extract of OpenPowerlifting for federation-level analyses and IPF world championship result files for championship-level analyses. The federation-level dataset included 702,731 eligible entries from 242,572 lifters between 2010 and 2025. Participation growth was driven almost entirely by classic lifting, which increased from 11.6% of all entries in 2010 to 93.5% in 2025, whereas equipped participation declined substantially. By 2025, yearly mean IPF Goodlift points were higher in classic than equipped lifting (74.9 vs 68.1), and classic exceeded equipped lifting on yearly top-end values from 2023 onward. Comparable patterns were observed at world championship level, particularly in the Junior and Sub-Junior divisions. These findings indicate that classic lifting has become the dominant competitive format within the contemporary IPF, whereas equipped lifting persists at a substantially smaller competitive scale.		[Renner, Alexander] Univ Vienna, Ctr Sport Sci & Univ Sports, Vienna, Austria; [Renner, Alexander] Univ Vienna, Ctr Sport Sci & Univ Sports, Vienna, Austria								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001820439000001	15	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Casals, Marti; Oliver, Marti; Fernandez, Daniel; Cortes, Jordi; Lorenzo-Arribas, Altea; Ley, Christophe								Global landscape of sports statistics: Initial census of researchers and academics in the field								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261467942				2026	The field of sports statistics has experienced remarkable growth in recent years, fueled by increasing academic publications, specialized journals, and global initiatives. However, identifying and mapping researchers in this domain remains a complex search problem due to the vast and dispersed nature of scientific research. To address this challenge, we conducted the first global census of researchers and academics in sports statistics, applying structured methodologies to extract relevant profiles from the immense set of scientific researchers worldwide. A total of 274 researchers across 31 countries were initially identified through a structured multi-stage search strategy, updated through December 2025; after survey-based validation, 259 were confirmed for the final census, yielding a response rate of 48.91% (n = 134) and a final dataset of 110 detailed researcher profiles. Clustering analysis using the KAMILA method revealed three distinct researcher profiles: (1) younger researchers blending academia and industry expertise; (2) senior academics pioneering the field of sports statistics; and (3) researchers specializing in sports science and exercise medicine with high citation metrics. This census highlights the predominance of researchers from countries such as the United States (22.48%), Italy (15.12%), and Canada (7.75%). Beyond these descriptive findings, the study provides a structured and updatable framework for understanding the global academic landscape of sports statistics. The census is publicly accessible through an interactive R Shiny application (), enabling continuous updates and open access for the research community.		[Casals, Marti] Univ Vic Cent Univ Catalonia UVic UCC, Fac Med, Sport & Phys Act Studies Ctr CEEAF, Barcelona, Spain; [Casals, Marti] Univ Vic Cent Univ Catalonia UVic UCC, Sport Performance Anal Res Grp, Barcelona, Spain; [Casals, Marti] Univ Barcelona, Natl Inst Phys Educ Catalonia INEFC, Ave Estadi 12-22, Barcelona 08038, Spain; [Oliver, Marti] Univ Politecn Cataluna, Dept Stat & Operat Res, Barcelona, Spain; [Oliver, Marti] Univ Politecn Cataluna, Inst Res & Innovat Hlth IRIS, Barcelona, Spain; [Fernandez, Daniel; Cortes, Jordi] Univ Politecn Catalunya BarcelonaTech UPC, Dept Stat & Operat Res, Res Grp Biostat & Bioinformat GRBIO, Barcelona, Spain; [Fernandez, Daniel; Cortes, Jordi] Univ Politecn Catalunya BarcelonaTech UPC, Inst Res & Innovat Hlth IRIS, Barcelona, Spain; [Lorenzo-Arribas, Altea] James Hutton Inst, Biomath & Stat Scotland, Aberdeen, Scotland; [Ley, Christophe] Univ Luxembourg, Dept Math, Esch Sur Alzette, Luxembourg; [Casals, Marti] Univ Barcelona, Natl Inst Phys Educ Catalonia INEFC, Ave Estadi 12-22, Barcelona 08038, Spain; [Casals, Marti] Univ Vic Cent Univ Catalonia UVic UCC, Sport & Phys Act Studies Ctr CEEAF, Vic, Spain								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001816642200001	40	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Ashok, S. Sharon; Stanicki, Brooke; Thompson, Kamali; Salvati, Gabriella; Sewards, Joseph Milo								Understanding health insurance and the delay in care for partial meniscectomies: a comparison between public and private coverage								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE											10.1080/00913847.2026.2692916				2026	Background Meniscus injuries are one of the most common orthopedic pathologies. Arthroscopic partial meniscectomy can be performed if the injury has failed nonoperative management or is irreparable. Socioeconomic disparities within health insurance coverage have been known to hinder access to surgical intervention.Purpose The purpose of this study is to examine the impact of insurance status and socioeconomic demographics on the timeliness of care for meniscus tears in a high-volume urban safety-net hospital.Methods A retrospective review was conducted of patients aged 18 or older who underwent partial meniscectomy at a single center between January 2018 and December 2022. Patients were categorized based on insurance status. Demographic data, clinical timeliness, and non-operative treatments were analyzed. Insurance groups were compared between key time intervals, including injury-to-diagnosis, injury-to-decision, diagnosis-to-decision, decision-to-procedure, and total injury-to-surgery duration. Chi-square and multivariate regression analyses assessed the relationship between insurance type and delays in care.Results Publicly insured patients composed 67% of the 288 patients. Public insurance patients were predominantly Black (48%) and Hispanic (32%) compared to private insurance patients, where Black and Hispanic patients constituted 33% and 10%, respectively. Public insurance patients experienced significantly longer injury-to-diagnosis intervals, averaging 115 days more than private insurance patients. Delays persisted at every stage of care, with public insurance patients demonstrating longer injury-to-decision and decision-to-procedure intervals. No significant differences were found in pre-operative management, including physical therapy and bracing. White race was an independent predictor of delays in diagnosis, surgical decision, and procedure time. Male sex had quicker diagnosis to decision times.Conclusion This study demonstrates significant disparities in the timeliness of surgical care for meniscus tears, with public insurance status and minority race, mainly Black and Hispanic, serving as key predictors of care delays. Public insurance patients faced prolonged intervals across all stages of care, including a 115-day delay from injury to diagnosis. Structural inefficiencies, such as lower reimbursement rates and administrative complexity of public insurance programs, combined with patient-specific barriers like financial instability and mistrust, contribute to these delays. These findings underscore the need for systemic reforms to improve equity in healthcare access.		[Ashok, S. Sharon; Stanicki, Brooke; Thompson, Kamali; Salvati, Gabriella; Sewards, Joseph Milo] Temple Univ Hosp & Med Sch, Dept Orthoped Surg & Sports Med, 3401 N Broad St, Philadelphia, PA 19140 USA; [Ashok, S. Sharon] Temple Univ Hosp & Med Sch, Dept Orthoped Surg & Sports Med, 3401 N Broad St, Philadelphia, PA 19140 USA								0							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001815764800001	30	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Yu, Bo; Du, Hui; Mumcu, Ceyda; Bonal, Jose								Brand extension in integrated clubs: a case study of women's football in Spain								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP											10.1108/IJSMS-04-2025-0173				2026	Purpose The visibility and popularity of women's sports have surged in recent years. Many football clubs in Europe, in particular Spain, have extended their clubs to include women's football. While existing literature has recognized this trajectory of growth in women's sports, limited scholarship has examined the brand extension strategies of those football clubs and how they maintain consistency while establishing uniqueness for women's teams. Therefore, the purpose of this study is to explore how the branded house strategy functions in the context of Spanish women's football.Design/methodology/approach Using two Spanish women's football teams, Atl & eacute;tico Madrid Femenino and Valencia CF Femenino, as the case study research context, the authors conducted ten semi-structured interviews. A thematic analysis was conducted in NVivo 14 to identify meaningful themes and subthemes from the interview scripts, following a phronetic iterative analysis approach that includes primary-cycle coding and secondary-cycle coding, using theoretical frameworks of brand architecture and brand authenticity.Findings Our thematic analysis identified three themes and nine subthemes and suggested the brand extension approach within Spanish football followed the house of brands perspective, as both teams have built their women's brands consistently with the club brands' elements and identity. Our findings also supported that those two Spanish women's football teams have established their own brand identities through brand ambidexterity strategies that emphasize the uniqueness of women's sports.Originality/value Our case study contributes to the brand architecture and brand ambidexterity literature and provides practical branding strategies for women's sports teams. Our findings suggest that practitioners go beyond treating women's football as adjuncts of men's football clubs and pursue long-term development pathways to create distinctive brand identities.		[Yu, Bo] Univ Minnesota, Sch Kinesiol, Minneapolis, MN 55455 USA; [Du, Hui; Mumcu, Ceyda] Univ New Haven, Dept Sport Tourism & Hospitality Management, West Haven, CT USA; [Bonal, Jose] Univ Europea Madrid, Fac Hlth Med & Sports MESADE, Madrid, Spain; [Yu, Bo] Univ Minnesota, Sch Kinesiol, Minneapolis, MN 55455 USA								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001814064400001	63	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Briscoe, Thomas; Darrall-Jones, Josh; Heyward, Omar; Barrow, Stuart; Scantlebury, Sean								Coaching ideals vs reality; exploring the alignment between coach perception and the actual training and match schedules of youth female rugby league players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261466495				2026	This study explored the ratings between coach opinion of ideal training and match volume and frequency, and player practice across the youth female rugby league (RL) pathway. One hundred and eleven players (U12 to U18) completed an online survey reporting frequency and volume of RL training sessions and matches, the weekly duration of time in training modalities and participation in other sports. Coaches (n = 13) reported their opinion on the ideal frequency and volume of RL training/matches, time spent in training modalities and participation in other sports at each age category. Coaches reported that players should complete more rugby training sessions per week than players reported completing, with all coaches recommending at least two session per week at U12 and more than three at U18, whilst most players reported completing two or fewer sessions weekly (p < 0.01, effect sizes 0.56 to 0.87). Players reported greater monthly match exposure than perceived ideal from U12 to U16 (p <= 0.03, effect sizes 0.42 to 0.82). Contact training durations frequently exceeded Rugby Football League guidelines (15 to 30 min per week), with 21% to 47% of players exceeding 30 min and 3% to 21% reporting >120 min of full contact training weekly. To optimise player development, players, guardians, and coaches must establish communication networks regarding weekly activities to ensure training modalities are aligned. Contact load guidelines are required to facilitate contact skill development whilst managing player safety, and increased strength and conditioning volume may better prepare players for RL demands.		[Briscoe, Thomas; Darrall-Jones, Josh; Heyward, Omar; Scantlebury, Sean] Leeds Beckett Univ, Carnegie Appl Rugby Res Ctr, Carnegie Sch Sports, Leeds, England; [Heyward, Omar] Rugby Football Union, Performance Rugby Dept, Twickenham, England; [Barrow, Stuart; Scantlebury, Sean] Rugby Football League, England Performance Unit, Manchester, England; [Briscoe, Thomas] Leeds Beckett Univ, Carnegie Appl Rugby Res CARR Ctr, Leeds, England								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001815978100001	21	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Gilmer, Gabrielle; Rizzone, Katherine; Christino, Melissa; Edison, Bianca; Armento, Aubrey								Athletic identity and grit in adolescent athletes: Associations with gender, sport participation, specialization, and injury status								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261466075				2026	Sports participation offers many benefits to adolescents and is influenced by grit, which is defined as the passion and perseverance required to achieve long-term goals, and athletic identity (AI), which is defined as the degree of personal connection to sport. More specifically, evidence suggests that both AI and grit independently facilitate benefits, such as teamwork and long-term success, but little is known about how the interaction between AI and grit may impact adolescent athletes. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the relationship between AI and grit and examine how AI and grit varied by gender, sport participation, specialization, and injury status amongst adolescent athletes. Through a cross-sectional survey study, we examined the correlation between grit and AI, and compared grit and AI between gender, sport participation, specialization, and injury status. There was no significant relationship between AI and grit (rho = -0.09, p = 0.36). There were no significant differences between genders in AI and grit (U = 1214, p = 0.49; U = 1354.5, p = 0.82). Team sport and more specialized athletes had stronger AI than individual sport and less specialized athletes (U = 971, p = 0.02; H = 4.43, p = 0.04). Injured athletes and athletes who practiced 1-6 h per week had higher grit than those who were uninjured and practiced more (U = 637.5, p < 0.001; H = 11.28, p = 0.046). Collectively, these data can inform targeted interventions to cultivate and promote the benefits of AI and grit in adolescent athletes.		[Gilmer, Gabrielle] Univ Pittsburgh, Sch Med, Med Scientist Training Program, Pittsburgh, PA USA; [Rizzone, Katherine] Univ Rochester, Med Ctr, Dept Orthoped & Phys Performance, Rochester, NY USA; [Christino, Melissa] Harvard Med Sch, Boston Childrens Hosp, Dept Orthoped Surg, Boston, MA USA; [Edison, Bianca] Keck Sch Med USC, Childrens Hosp Los Angeles, Los Angeles, CA USA; [Armento, Aubrey] Univ Colorado, Sch Med, Dept Orthoped, 13123 E 16th Ave,B060, Aurora, CO 80045 USA; [Armento, Aubrey] Univ Colorado, Sch Med, Dept Orthoped, 13123 E 16th Ave,B060, Aurora, CO 80045 USA; [Armento, Aubrey] Childrens Hosp Colorado, Sports Med Ctr, 13123 E 16th Ave,B060, Aurora, CO 80045 USA								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001815984300001	34	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Serdil Ors, Berfin; Han, Cheryl A.; Kong, Pui Wah								Stretching to the limit: Acute responses to static and dynamic preparation for technical leaps in youth rhythmic gymnasts								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261466544				2026	Rhythmic gymnastics (RG) technical leaps require high jump height and extreme joint range of motion. This study compared RG technical leap performance immediately following static and dynamic stretching preparation. Seventeen well-trained female rhythmic gymnasts underwent 30-min of static or dynamic stretching interventions on separate days. Immediately following the stretching exercises, participants performed 4 RG technical leaps: split, split with back bend, stag, and stag with back bend. High-speed videos of their leaps were analysed for flight time, split angle and back bend angle (where applicable). Wilcoxon signed-rank tests were used to compare between static and dynamic stretching. Results showed that flight time was unaffected by the stretching modality. Compared to static stretching, dynamic stretching resulted in 3 to 10 degrees smaller split angles (all p < .005, large effect) in most leaps except the stag leap. Dynamic stretching also led to a smaller back bend angle by 7 degrees during the split leap with back bend (p = .021, large effect) and by 10 degrees during the stag leap with back bend (p = .001, large effect). In conclusion, static stretching may be more effective than dynamic stretching in an acute context in preparing youth rhythmic gymnasts for technical leaps requiring extreme joint range of motion. These findings should be interpreted with caution, as the greater flexibility may reflect increased exposure to end-range positions in the static stretching protocol rather than the stretching modality itself.		[Kong, Pui Wah] Nanyang Technol Univ, Natl Inst Educ, Phys Educ & Sports Sci Dept, Singapore 637616, Singapore; [Serdil Ors, Berfin] Singapore Gymnast, Singapore, Singapore; [Han, Cheryl A.; Kong, Pui Wah] Nanyang Technol Univ, Natl Inst Educ, Phys Educ & Sports Sci Dept, Singapore, Singapore; [Kong, Pui Wah] Nanyang Technol Univ, Natl Inst Educ, Phys Educ & Sports Sci Dept, Singapore 637616, Singapore								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001813625100001	29	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Faivre, Ophelie; Labrousse, Amelie; Gosselin, Nathan; Mergenthaler, Guillaume; Hulet, Christophe; Reboursiere, Emmanuel; Remilly, Marion; Drigny, Joffrey								Landing mechanics after anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction: reliability and clinical insights from the forward single-leg hop test								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				81						101945	10.1016/j.ptsp.2026.101945			SEP 2026	2026	Objectives: To evaluate inter-rater reliability of the Single-leg Hop for Distance Landing Error Scoring System (SHD-LESS), compare landing mechanics between limbs, examine associations with strength and functional performance, and identify coordinated movement patterns following anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction (ACLR). Design: Cross-sectional. Setting: University hospital. Participants: Fifty-seven athletes (mean age 25.5 +/- 6.2 years) assessed 6-12 months post-primary unilateral ACLR. Main outcome measures: Bilateral isokinetic strength (60 degrees/s) and single-leg hop distance were assessed. Two blinded raters independently scored landing quality using the SHD-LESS (13 items, maximum score 16) from 120 fps video recordings. Inter-rater reliability was assessed using ICC and Cohen's kappa, with limb comparisons via McNemar's and Wilcoxon signed-rank tests. Results: SHD-LESS total score demonstrated good inter-rater reliability (ICC 0.77-0.80), with variable item-level agreement. The operated limb showed greater landing errors. Inter-item correlations revealed coordinated multijoint kinematic deficits encompassing sagittal load absorption, frontal-plane dynamic valgus, and trunk-hip compensatory patterns. Higher pre-injury activity level and muscle strength were associated with lower SHDLESS scores, while return-to-running status was the sole predictor of interlimb asymmetry. Conclusions: SHD-LESS is a reliable, clinically feasible tool revealing landing quality deficits beyond hop distance alone, relevant to return-to-sport decision-making after ACLR.		[Faivre, Ophelie] Normandie Univ, CHU Caen Normandie, Serv Med Sport, Serv Med Phys & Readaptat, F-14000 Caen, France; [Labrousse, Amelie] Normandie Univ, CHU Caen Normandie, Serv Med Sport, Serv Hosp Univ Med Urgence, F-14000 Caen, France; [Gosselin, Nathan; Reboursiere, Emmanuel; Remilly, Marion] Normandie Univ, CHU Caen Normandie, Serv Med Sport, F-14000 Caen, France; [Mergenthaler, Guillaume] Normandie Univ, CHU Caen Normandie, Dept Orthoped & Traumatol, F-14000 Caen, France; [Hulet, Christophe] Normandie Univ, CHU Caen Normandie, Dept Orthoped & traumatol, INSERM,COMETE,GIP CYCERON, F-14000 Caen, France; [Drigny, Joffrey] Normandie Univ, CHU Caen Normandie, Serv Med Phys & Readaptat, INSERM,COMETE,GIP CYCERON,Serv Med Sport, F-14000 Caen, France; [Drigny, Joffrey] CHU Caen, Med Phys & Readaptat, Av Cote Nacre, F-14000 Caen, France								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001821253000001	47	Article; Article		
J	Furu, Lars Erlien; McGhie, David; Solli, Guro Strom; Dalen, Terje								Variations in Isometric Strength and Rate of Force Development Across the Menstrual and Hormonal Contraceptive Cycle in Elite Female Football Players								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT											10.1080/02701367.2026.2696560				2026	To examine variation in maximal voluntary isometric contraction (MVIC), rate of force development (RFD), and hamstrings-to-quadriceps (H/Q) ratio across estimated menstrual cycle phases and intervals in hormonal contraceptive (HC) users among elite female football players. Forty-two players (non-HC: n = 21; HC: n = 21) completed twice-weekly quadriceps and hamstring strength tests during a 40-day pre-season period. Non-HC tests were categorized into estimated early follicular, late follicular, and mid-luteal phases using app/calendar tracking; corresponding intervals were applied for HC users. Self-reported fitness, sleep quality, performance, and menstrual-related symptoms were collected. Mixed ANOVAs examined MVIC, RFD, and H/Q ratio. In non-HC players, quadriceps MVIC was higher in the estimated late follicular phase than in the estimated early follicular (p < .001, d = 0.69) and mid-luteal phases (p = .004, d = 0.53). Quadriceps RFD was lower in the estimated early follicular phase than in the estimated late follicular (p = .026, d = 0.43) and mid-luteal phases (p = .001, d = 0.61). No clear phase-related variation was observed in hamstring strength or H/Q ratio. In HC users, MVIC, RFD, and H/Q ratio showed no meaningful variation across corresponding intervals. The estimated early follicular phase coincided with lower perceived performance, daily fitness, and sleep quality, and greater menstrual-related symptom prevalence. Quadriceps isometric strength and rapid force production varied across estimated menstrual cycle phases, whereas neuromuscular strength measures appeared more stable among HC users. Field-based monitoring may help contextualize short-term fluctuations in neuromuscular performance and perceived readiness.		[Furu, Lars Erlien; McGhie, David; Solli, Guro Strom; Dalen, Terje] Nord Univ, Bodo, Norway; [Dalen, Terje] Nord Univ, Fac Educ & Arts, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Hogskoleveien 27, N-7600 Levanger, Norway								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001815890500001	41	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Bezodis, Neil; Bayne, Helen								Selecting appropriate performance outcome measures in sports biomechanics: a procedural framework								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2026.2696468				2026	Sports biomechanics researchers and practitioners invest considerable effort in understanding the often complex interactions between athletes' techniques and their performance outcomes. Extensive research and commentary exist on the measurement of technique, including the wide range of technology available and the many diverse forms, structures and domains of the variables quantified. The analytical methods used to understand the interactions between these measures of technique and performance outcomes have also received considerable attention. However, the process of selecting the performance outcome measure rarely receives explicit focus, even though it can bias the conclusions reached for a variety of reasons. We therefore present a seven-step procedural framework to guide the selection or development of appropriate performance outcome measures for sports biomechanics investigations. Three published examples from our previous work, supported by other hypothetical scenarios, illustrate how the framework can be applied from different perspectives and across different sports. The framework will better enable biomechanists to identify, evaluate, and mitigate conceptual and measurement-related biases in established and novel performance measures. Ultimately, it supports the selection of outcome measures that best suit the given question, enhancing the validity and impact of biomechanical investigations designed to support sports performance.		[Bezodis, Neil] Swansea Univ, Appl Sports Technol Exercise & Med A STEM Res Ctr, Swansea, Wales; [Bezodis, Neil] Welsh Inst Performance Sci, Sport Wales, Cardiff, Wales; [Bayne, Helen] Western Australian Inst Sport, High Performance Sports Res Ctr, Perth, WA, Australia; [Bayne, Helen] Univ Western Australia, Sch Human Sci Exercise & Sport Sci, Perth, WA, Australia; [Bezodis, Neil] Swansea Univ, Appl Sports Technol Exercise & Med A STEM Res Ctr, Swansea, Wales; [Bezodis, Neil] Welsh Inst Performance Sci, Sport Wales, Cardiff, Wales								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001815658400001	45	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Skujyte, Austra; Kamandulis, Sigitas; Genitrini, Matteo; Satkunskiene, Danguole; Silinskas, Viktoras; Lukonaitiene, Inga; Bradauskiene, Kristina; Mickevicius, Mantas; Stanislovaitiene, Jurate; Samozino, Pierre								Lower limb muscle activity under full and partial towing assistance in sprint running								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2026.2693711				2026	This study investigated how different levels of sprint assistance influence neuromuscular activity and performance. Concerns exist that full assistance may reduce active muscle engagement due to passive contributions. Thirteen male athletes from various sports performed 30-m sprints under three conditions: unassisted, partially assisted, and fully assisted, using a motorised towing device. Surface electromyography recorded activity of five lower limb muscles (rectus femoris, vastus lateralis, semitendinosus, biceps femoris, and gluteus maximus), while spatiotemporal parameters were measured over the final 10 m using Optojump. Sprint times were significantly improved in both assisted conditions compared to unassisted sprints (partial: -3.4%, full: -2.8%; p < 0.01), primarily due to increased stride length (p < 0.001), longer flight time, and shorter contact time (p < 0.05 for both), while stride frequency remained unchanged. Contrary to hypothesis, EMG analyses revealed no statistically significant differences in muscle activity between conditions, despite improved performance and the potential contribution of passive propulsion. Large effect sizes (d > 0.8) were briefly observed, in a muscle-dependent manner, at discrete points of the gait cycle. These findings suggest that assisted sprinting enhances performance without reducing neuromuscular demands, although the results should be interpreted in light of the athletes' inexperience with assisted running.		[Skujyte, Austra; Kamandulis, Sigitas; Genitrini, Matteo; Satkunskiene, Danguole; Silinskas, Viktoras; Lukonaitiene, Inga; Mickevicius, Mantas] Lithuanian Sports Univ, Inst Sports Sci & Innovat, Kaunas, Lithuania; [Silinskas, Viktoras; Lukonaitiene, Inga; Bradauskiene, Kristina; Mickevicius, Mantas; Stanislovaitiene, Jurate] Lithuanian Sports Univ, Sports Coaching Dept, Kaunas, Lithuania; [Samozino, Pierre] Univ Savoie Mt Blanc, Lab Human Movement Sci, Chambery, France; [Skujyte, Austra] Lithuanian Sports Univ, Inst Sports Sci & Innovat, Kaunas, Lithuania								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001811074800001	32	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Lin, Rui; Chen, Huimeng; Liu, Yuduo; Zhu, Zihao; Wan, Xianglin								Acute effects of combat boots and minimalist shoes on Achilles tendon loading during running under different load carriage magnitudes in soldiers								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2026.2695881				2026	This study investigated the acute effects of combat boots and minimalist shoes on Achilles tendon (AT) loading during running under different load carriage magnitudes in soldiers. Eighteen rearfoot-strike soldiers performed running tests under three load conditions (0, 10, and 20 kg) while wearing either minimalist shoes or combat boots. The coordinates of the body landmarks and ground reaction force data were simultaneously collected using the infrared high-speed motion capture system and force plates. The musculoskeletal model was established to calculate AT biomechanical parameters. Results showed that AT force impulse and stance duration increased with higher load magnitudes. Load carriage increased AT force during the midstance phase but decreased it during the early stance phase. Compared with combat boots, running in minimalist shoes decreased AT force during the terminal stance phase and shortened stance duration but increased AT force during the early stance phase. However, no main effect of footwear on AT force impulse was found. Additionally, no interaction effect between footwear and load carriage magnitude was observed for any biomechanical parameter. These findings suggest that minimalist shoes provide limited acute benefits in reducing cumulative AT loading and therefore are not recommended for soldiers during load carriage.		[Lin, Rui; Chen, Huimeng; Liu, Yuduo; Zhu, Zihao; Wan, Xianglin] Beijing Sport Univ, Sch Sport Sci, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Wan, Xianglin] Beijing Sport Univ, Key Lab Performance Training & Recovery Gen Adm Sp, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Wan, Xianglin] Beijing Sport Univ, Sch Sport Sci, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Wan, Xianglin] Beijing Sport Univ, Key Lab Performance Training & Recovery Gen Adm Sp, Beijing, Peoples R China								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001814552500001	55	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Dixon, Andrew J.; Stokes, Keith A.; Littlewood, Martin A.; Cronin, Colum J.; Twist, Craig; Hudson, James F.; Close, Graeme L.								Mapping the ecology of the tackle event: What shapes how elite rugby union players takle?								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261456106				2026	Rugby Union is a full contact collision sport, whereby success in the tackle event, is a key marker of match outcome. Moreover, the tackle is associated with the sport's most prevalent injury, concussion. To date, we have little insight into players' experience of the tackle. Therefore, a series of online focus groups were performed to understand elite male rugby union players' experiences of collision. Facilitated by a moderator, focus groups were performed with eighteen elite rugby union players across four teams, utilising the Microsoft Teams platform. All players were competing in the Gallagher Premiership during the 2024/ 2025 season. Braun and Clarke's (2019) reflexive thematic analysis was employed. To assist the analysis, Bronfenbrenner ' s ecological systems model was applied to illustrate the interlinking systems that influence the tackle event, directly or from afar. Findings generated four key themes: 1) Microsystem - People, Positions and Time Determine the Tackle, 2) Mesosystem - Where Coaching Meets the Process of Tackle Variation, 3) Exosystem - Tackle Contexts in relation to rules, refereeing and the laws of the game, and 4) Macrosystem - Wider Contexts Driving Tackle Experiences. The findings detailed here offer novel insights into the tackle event in elite men's rugby union and an ecological platform for future work.		[Dixon, Andrew J.; Littlewood, Martin A.; Cronin, Colum J.; Twist, Craig; Close, Graeme L.] Liverpool John Moores Univ, Res Inst Sport & Exercise Sci, Liverpool, England; [Dixon, Andrew J.] Univ Campus Football & Business, Manchester Campus, Manchester, England; [Stokes, Keith A.] Univ Bath, Ctr Hlth & Injury & Illness Sport, Bath, England; [Hudson, James F.] Gloucester Rugby Ltd, Dept Nutr, Gloucester, England; [Close, Graeme L.] Liverpool John Moores Univ, Res Inst Sport & Exercise Sci, Liverpool, England								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001809441900001	65	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Li, Yuanchang; Li, Guoxing; Huang, Wenwei; Zeng, Qianyu; Liao, Junxing; Sun, Jian; Hou, Xiaohui								Effects of Coach Behaviors on Training Engagement and Disaffection of Chinese Youth Male Basketball Players: The Role of Basic Psychological Needs and Psychological Capital								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				103				289	301		10.5114/jhk/209808			JUL 2026	2026	This study investigated the relationship between coaches' behavior and athletes' engagement and disaffection in the Chinese sports training context, and examined the mediating role of basic mental needs and psychological capital. Athletes (N = 485) completed a questionnaire to assess the study variables. The results showed significant direct influence of coach supportive behavior on athletes' training engagement and coach controlling behavior on athletes' training disaffection. In addition, Bootstrap analyses highlighted the significant mediating role of basic mental needs and psychological capital in the relationship between coaches' behavior (supportive and controlling behavior) and athletes' training engagement and disaffection. Findings support theoretical hypotheses emphasizing that coaches should enhance supportive behaviors and reduce controlling behaviors in Chinese youth basketball training, which is not only of great significance to cultivate athletes' positive psychological capital, but also of great importance to promote athletes' engagement as well as avoid disaffected emotions and behaviors during training.		[Li, Yuanchang; Li, Guoxing; Huang, Wenwei; Zeng, Qianyu; Liao, Junxing; Sun, Jian] Guangzhou Sport Univ, Sch Athlet Training, Guangzhou, Peoples R China; [Hou, Xiaohui] Guangzhou Sport Univ, Guangdong Prov Key Lab Human Sport Performance Sci, Guangzhou, Peoples R China; [Sun, Jian] Guangzhou Sport Univ, Sch Athlet Training, Guangzhou, Peoples R China; [Hou, Xiaohui] Guangzhou Sport Univ, Guangdong Prov Key Lab Human Sport Performance Sci, Guangzhou, Peoples R China								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001845443500021	49	Article; Article		
J	Benhassen, Dhia; Rahmani, Abderrahmane; Zghal, Firas; Samozino, Pierre; Rebai, Haithem; Peyrot, Nicolas								Effects of Dribbling Constraints on Sprint Acceleration Performance and the Force-Velocity Profile according to Playing Positions in Professional Soccer Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				103				43	56		10.5114/jhk/20482			JUL 2026	2026	This study aimed to investigate the impact of dribbling on sprint acceleration performance (sprint time) and the associated force-velocity (F-V) profile among professional soccer players across playing positions. Participants (N = 52) were categorized as central defenders (CDs), wide defenders (WDs), central midfielders (CMs), wide midfielders (WMs), and forwards (Fs). A field method based on split times measurements during 30-m sprint acceleration was used to calculate maximal theoretical force (F0) and velocity (V0), maximal power (Pmax) and the F-V slope during sprinting without the ball and while dribbling. Our study revealed a significant decline in sprint performance during dribbling. CDs and WDs exhibited higher losses in 5-m split time (T5; 19%) compared to Fs (13%) and WMs (14%). CMs displayed higher losses in 20-m split time (T20; 11%) compared to Fs (8%). Pmax and F0 significantly decreased when dribbling, with a higher decrease in Pmax experienced by CMs (33%) compared to Fs (24%) and WMs (25%). Similarly, a higher decrease was observed in F0 for CMs (29%) compared to Fs (20%) and WMs (20%). The determination coefficients between the loss in T5 and Pmax (r & sup2; = 0.54), F0 (r & sup2; = 0.62), and the loss in T20 and Pmax (r & sup2; = 0.75), F0 (r & sup2; = 0.23), and V0 (r & sup2; = 0.22) indicated substantial relationships between sprint performance decline and losses in the F-V profile. In conclusion, this study highlights how dribbling affects sprint performance and the F-V profile differently across soccer playing positions. Coaches can tailor training programs considering the constraints imposed by dribbling for effective players' development.		[Benhassen, Dhia; Rahmani, Abderrahmane; Peyrot, Nicolas] Le Mans Univ, Movement Interact Performance, Le Mans, France; [Benhassen, Dhia] Univ Sfax, Res Lab Educ Motricite Sport & Sante EM2S, Sfax, Tunisia; [Zghal, Firas] Univ Paris Saclay, Complex Innovat Motor & Sports Act CIAMS, Gif Sur Yvette, France; [Zghal, Firas] Univ Orleans, Complex Innovat Motor & Sports Act CIAMS, Orleans, France; [Samozino, Pierre] Univ Savoie Mont Blanc LIBM, Interuniv Lab Human Movement Sci, Chambery, France; [Rebai, Haithem] Natl Ctr Med & Sci Sports, Res Lab Sport Performance Optimizat, Tunis, Tunisia; [Benhassen, Dhia] Le Mans Univ, Movement Interact Performance, Le Mans, France; [Benhassen, Dhia] Univ Sfax, Res Lab Educ Motricite Sport & Sante EM2S, Sfax, Tunisia								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001845443500004	34	Article; Article		
J	Asian-Clemente, Jose Antonio; Requena, Bernardo; Beltran-Garrido, Jose Vicente; Zmijewski, Piotr								The Impact of Field Size on Positional and Possession Games: Variations in Physical Demands across Player Positions in Soccer Training								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				103				261	275		10.5114/jhk/222302			JUL 2026	2026	This study investigated how pitch size and a task type (position vs. possession games) influence running demands and external load across player positions in soccer training. Twenty-five young professional soccer players (21.9 +/- 1.9 years) participated in 36 training sessions during the 2021-2022 season. Position and possession games were conducted on three pitch sizes (small, medium, large). Players wore GPS devices to measure total distance covered (DC), peak speed, and acceleration/deceleration metrics (low-intensity < +/- 3 m & centerdot;s(-)& sup2; and high-intensity > +/- 3 m & centerdot;s(-)& sup2;). Mixed models assessed the effects of pitch size and a task type on these metrics and positional differences. Possession games elicited higher total DC than position games across all sizes studied (p < 0.005). In the large format, the peak speed was higher in possession than in position games (p < 0.001). On small pitches, possession games resulted in greater low-intensity accelerations/decelerations (ACC(<3)/DEC<3), but fewer high-intensity accelerations/decelerations (ACC(>3)/DEC>3) and maximal deceleration compared to position games (p < 0.05). Positional analysis revealed that central defenders and fullbacks reached greater total DC across all three formats of possession games (p < 0.05). Central-midfielders and forwards recorded higher peak speeds in the large possession game (p <= 0.01). Wide-midfielders achieved fewer ACC(<3) and DEC<3 events in position games during the small format, while fullbacks performed fewer ACC(<3) but more ACC(>3) in the same format during position games (p <= 0.05). Field size and the game format significantly affect external load in soccer. Possession games require greater total DC regardless of size and higher peak speeds on larger fields, while position games involve more high-intensity actions, reflecting players' tactical roles.		[Asian-Clemente, Jose Antonio; Requena, Bernardo] Football Sci Inst, FSI Lab, Granada, Spain; [Asian-Clemente, Jose Antonio] Univ Pablo Olavide, Dept Sport Sci, Seville, Spain; [Zmijewski, Piotr] Univ Cardenal Herrera CEU, CEU Univ, Sch Humanities & Commun Sci Castellon, Dept Educ Sci,Phys Exercise & Performance Res Grp, Castellon De La Plana, Spain; [Zmijewski, Piotr] Jozef Pilsudski Univ Phys Educ Warsaw, Fac Phys Educ, Dept Biomed Sci, Warsaw, Poland; [Zmijewski, Piotr] Univ Cardenal Herrera CEU, CEU Univ, Sch Humanities & Commun Sci Castellon, Dept Educ Sci,Phys Exercise & Performance Res Grp, Castellon De La Plana, Spain; [Zmijewski, Piotr] Jozef Pilsudski Univ Phys Educ Warsaw, Fac Phys Educ, Dept Biomed Sci, Warsaw, Poland								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001845443500019	42	Article; Article		
J	Barbosa, Germanna Medeiros; Aquino, Cecilia Ferreira; Castro, Ana Luiza De Oliveira; Ribeiro, Alessandra Pereira; Mendonca, Luciana De Michelis								Perceived gender bias in sports physiotherapy: a cross-sectional survey of female sports physiotherapists in Brazil								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				80						101944	10.1016/j.ptsp.2026.101944			JUL 2026	2026	Background: Gender bias remains an issue in sports physiotherapy, influencing women's career progression and participation in scientific settings. Objective: To investigate the experiences, perceptions, and trajectories of Brazilian female sports physiotherapists and identify gender-related barriers and facilitators across education, professional practice, and research. Methods: A cross-sectional online survey assessed demographics, career paths, and perceptions of gender bias among women sports physiotherapists in Brazil. Quantitative data were analysed using descriptive statistics and logistic regression, and qualitative responses underwent thematic and lexical analyses. Results: A total of 157 women sports physiotherapists (32.4 +/- 7.5 years) participated. Two-thirds reported hearing during undergraduate studies that sports physiotherapy was not for women. Seventy percent identified being a woman as a barrier, and over 90% perceived unequal opportunities. Sexism was frequent, with 60% reporting harassment, 74% misogyny, and over 60% mansplaining or manterrupting. Although 80% expressed interest in lecturing at conferences, only 60% had done so. Early-career professionals had higher odds of entering the field and receiving faculty encouragement, whereas mid- to late-career professionals were more likely to hold postgraduate degrees and lecture at conferences. Conclusion: Gender-related barriers persist across career stages, while sports experience and mentorship act as facilitators, reinforcing the need for equity-promoting policies.		[Barbosa, Germanna Medeiros; Ribeiro, Alessandra Pereira] Univ Fed Rio Grande Do Norte, Sch Hlth Sci Trairi, Grad Program Phys Therapy, Santa Cruz, RN, Brazil; [Barbosa, Germanna Medeiros] Univ Fed Rio Grande Do Norte, Sch Hlth Sci Trairi, Santa Cruz, RN, Brazil; [Aquino, Cecilia Ferreira] Univ Estado Minas Gerais, Rehabil & Hlth Sci Dept, Divinopolis, MG, Brazil; [Castro, Ana Luiza De Oliveira; Mendonca, Luciana De Michelis] Univ Fed Minas Gerais, Sch Phys Educ Physiotherapy & Occupat Therapy, Grad Program Rehabil Sci, Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil; [Mendonca, Luciana De Michelis] Univ Fed Minas Gerais, Sch Phys Educ Physiotherapy & Occupat Therapy, Dept Phys Therapy, Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil; [Mendonca, Luciana De Michelis] Univ Fed Minas Gerais, Sch Phys Educ Physiotherapy & Occupat Therapy, Grad Program Rehabil Sci, Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil; [Mendonca, Luciana De Michelis] Univ Fed Minas Gerais, Sch Phys Educ Physiotherapy & Occupat Therapy, Dept Phys Therapy, Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001801136300001	37	Article; Article		
J	Hovanloo, Fariborz; Pourahmad, Kowsar; Shahpar, Farhad Moradi								Effect of a core endurance fatigue protocol on isokinetic hamstring strength and flexibility in male soccer players: An exploratory study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				80						101940	10.1016/j.ptsp.2026.101940			JUL 2026	2026	Background: Hamstring injuries are common in soccer, and fatigue-induced alterations in core function may influence neuromuscular control and hamstring performance. Objective: To investigate the acute effects of a core endurance fatigue protocol on isokinetic hamstring strength and active knee extension (AKE) range of motion in male soccer players. Methods: Thirty male soccer players participated in this pre-post experimental study. Their mean age was 25 f 3.2 years, mean height was 179.4 f 6.6 cm, mean weight was 74.1 f 12.3 kg, and mean sports experience was 8.3 f 2.1 years. Participants underwent pre- and post-fatigue assessments of concentric and eccentric hamstring peak torque, functional hamstring-to-quadriceps ratios, and AKE flexibility following a core endurance fatigue protocol. Results: Following fatigue, eccentric hamstring strength and the functional hamstring-to-quadriceps ratio at 240 degrees/s decreased significantly. The changes in the functional hamstring-to-quadriceps ratio at 60 degrees/s and AKE flexibility were smaller and not consistently significant after adjustment. Conclusion: Core endurance fatigue is associated with acute neuromuscular changes in variables linked to hamstring function. These exploratory findings suggest that core endurance may be relevant in injury prevention, although prospective studies are needed to establish clinical relevance.		[Hovanloo, Fariborz; Pourahmad, Kowsar] Shahid Beheshti Univ, Dept Hlth & Sport Rehabil, Tehran, Iran; [Shahpar, Farhad Moradi] Univ Tehran Med Sci, Neurosci Inst, Sports Med Res Ctr, Tehran, Iran; [Hovanloo, Fariborz] Shahriari Sq, Tehran 1983969411, Iran; [Hovanloo, Fariborz] Shahriari Sq, Tehran 1983969411, Iran								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001788888800001	37	Article; Article		
J	Gokeler, Alli; Forelli, Florian; Moiroux-Sahraoui, Ayrton; Benjaminse, Anne; Giesche, Florian; McKeon, Patrick								Rewiring recovery: Integrating sensory-motor-cognitive strategies to optimize ACL rehabilitation								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				80						101918	10.1016/j.ptsp.2026.101918			JUL 2026	2026	Although advances in anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction (ACLR) techniques and rehabilitation protocols have improved physical recovery, many athletes return to sport with neuromotor deficits that increase reinjury risk. These limitations-altered sensory integration, excessive visual reliance, and inefficient motor strategies-reflect central neuroplastic adaptations rarely addressed in conventional rehabilitation. This clinical commentary explores how applying motor learning principles and sensory-motor-cognitive strategies may rewire recovery, enhance adaptability, and improve athletic readiness following ACLR. Rehabilitation emphasizing an external focus of attention improves movement efficiency and neural processing, while variable practice enhances adaptability by exposing athletes to changing task and environmental demands. Differential learning, in which repetition is intentionally varied, uses movement variability to strengthen error detection and correction under dynamic constraints. The integration of sensory challenges-such as virtual reality, stroboscopic vision, or wearable biofeedback-supports proprioceptive reweighting and perception-action coupling. Collectively, these approaches shift rehabilitation from prescriptive repetition toward enriched practice environments that better reflect sport demands. By prioritizing adaptability rather than repetition, clinicians may promote more automatic, resilient, and context-specific movement behaviors that support safer and more sustainable return to sport outcomes.		[Gokeler, Alli] Paderborn Univ, Fac Sci, Dept Exercise & Hlth, Exercise Sci & Neurosci, Paderborn, Germany; [Forelli, Florian] Hes So Univ Appl Sci & Arts Western Switzerland, Haute Ecole Arc Sante, CH-2800 Delemont, Switzerland; [Forelli, Florian; Moiroux-Sahraoui, Ayrton] Ortholab, Orthopaed Surg Dept, Clin Domont, Ramsay Healthcare, Domont, France; [Forelli, Florian] Soc Francaise Masseurs Kinesitherapeutes Sport Lab, Pierrefite Sur Seine, France; [Benjaminse, Anne] Univ Groningen, Univ Med Ctr Groningen, Dept Human Movement Sci, Groningen, Netherlands; [McKeon, Patrick] Ithaca Coll, Dept Exercise Sci & Athlet Training, Ithaca, NY USA; [Giesche, Florian] Goethe Univ, Goethe Univ Frankfurt Main, Inst Occupat Social & Environm Med, Frankfurt, Germany; [Gokeler, Alli] Paderborn Univ, Dept Exercise & Hlth, Exercise Sci & Neurosci Unit, Warburger Str 100, D-33098 Paderborn, Germany; [Gokeler, Alli] Paderborn Univ, Dept Exercise & Hlth, Exercise Sci & Neurosci Unit, Warburger Str 100, D-33098 Paderborn, Germany								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001766511700001	95	Article; Article		
J	Fan, Penglei; Wang, Ting; Kim, Youngsuk; Zhao, Zihao; Kim, Sukwon								Acute Optimization of Squat Jump Performance in Trained Collegiate Sprinters through Knee Angle-Specific Isometric Training								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				103				215	226		10.5114/jhk/208832			JUL 2026	2026	This study investigated the activation of major lower limb muscles during isometric squats (ISs) at different knee angles and their effects as a conditioning activity (CA) on squat jump (SJ) performance at varying initial knee angles. Twelve collegiate sprinters were randomly assigned to three conditions: control (CC), 90 degrees IS condition (90 degrees ISC), and 120 degrees IS condition (120 degrees ISC), using a balanced crossover design. EMG data from five lower limb muscles were collected during ISs, alongside the peak center of mass velocity (V peak), peak force (F peak), peak power (P peak), average power (P avg), and the force-velocity ratio at peak power (SFV) during subsequent SJs. Results showed that the 90 degrees IS condition elicited higher rectus femoris (p = 0.035, d = 0.729) activation, while the 120 degrees IS condition led to greater soleus (p = 0.030, d = 0.759), and tibialis anterior (p = 0.022, d = 0.812) activation. Both the 90 degrees ISC and the 120 degrees ISC significantly increased peak velocity (90 degrees ISC: p < 0.001, d = 1.379; 120 degrees ISC: p < 0.001, d = 0.979) compared to the CC, but showed no significant improvements in F peak or P peak. Notably, the SFV during the 90 degrees and 120 degrees SJ was significantly lower in the 90 degrees ISC and the 120 degrees ISC compared to the CC (90 degrees ISC: p < 0.001, d = -2.658; 120 degrees ISC: p < 0.001, d = -1.785). These findings suggest that the IS at different knee angles selectively activates lower limb muscles and enhances velocity-related performance metrics. Specific IS angles can alter the force-velocity relationship, increasing the velocity component at peak power during subsequent movements. Coaches and athletes in speed-dependent sports are encouraged to select IS angles tailored to their specific training goals and performance needs.		[Fan, Penglei] Yangtze Univ, Coll Educ & Sports Sci, Jingzhou, Peoples R China; [Wang, Ting] Jingchu Univ Technol, Inst Student Phys Hlth Promot, Jingmen, Peoples R China; [Kim, Youngsuk; Zhao, Zihao; Kim, Sukwon] Jeonbuk Natl Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Jeonju, South Korea; [Kim, Sukwon] Jeonbuk Natl Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Jeonju, South Korea								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:001845443500016	45	Article; Article		
J	Radakovic, Radivoje; Katanic, Borko; Stankovic, Mima; Jelaska, Igor; Jelaska, Goran								The Impact of Anthropometric Characteristics and Motor Abilities on Match Running Performance (MRP) in Elite Soccer Players: A Multiple Regression Approach								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				103				227	244		10.5114/jhk/207525			JUL 2026	2026	The aim of the study was to examine the impact of anthropometric characteristics and motor abilities on match running performance (MRP) in elite soccer players. For this purpose, a sample of 41 professional soccer players was evaluated considering five anthropometric characteristics, 11 motor abilities (including sprint and acceleration performance, agility, power, and endurance) as regressors, and six variables describing MRP (time spent in running at < 8 km/h, 8-15 km/h, 15.1-19 km/h, 19.1-23 km/h, > 23 km/h and total time spent in running) as criteria. Regression analysis identified significant regression models (p < 0.05) predicting 8.1-15 km/h, 19.1-23 km/h, and total time spent in running variables for both sets of regressors, with morphology explaining 29.6%, 29.8%, and 37.4%, and motor abilities explaining 59.6%, 65.9% and 68.7% of criterion variables, respectively. It can be concluded that body composition variables such as muscle and fat percentages are associated with jogging, high-speed running, and total distance covered, whilst sprinting variables at 10, 20, and 30 m, the 10/20 index, and the CMJ are associated with jogging and total distance covered. Also, the squat jump is associated with jogging, while shuttle run test performance is associated with high-speed running only. Results provide deep insight into the structure of relationships between MRP and both morphological and motor variables, which are essential to structure advanced training systems focused on optimization of MRP in elite soccer players.		[Radakovic, Radivoje] Univ Kragujevac, Inst Informat Technol, Kragujevac, Serbia; [Radakovic, Radivoje] Bioengn Res & Dev Ctr, Kragujevac, Serbia; [Katanic, Borko] Montenergin Sports Acad, Podgorica, Montenegro; [Stankovic, Mima] Univ Nis, Fac Sport & Phys Educ, Nish, Serbia; [Jelaska, Igor; Jelaska, Goran] Univ Split, Fac Kinesiol, Split, Croatia; [Jelaska, Goran] Virovitica Cty Hosp, Virovitica, Croatia; [Stankovic, Mima] Univ Nis, Fac Sport & Phys Educ, Nish, Serbia								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001845443500017	82	Article; Article		
J	Chang, En-Yu; Yeh, Hung-Chih; Ho, Chia-An; Lau, Hei-Tung; Wang, Pei-Hsuan; Lin, Wei-Hsuan; Ho, Chin-Shan								Monitoring pitching load and lower-limb fatigue in collegiate baseball: A simulated-game comparison across competitive levels								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261451409				2026	This study examined whether baseball pitchers at different competitive levels exhibit distinct fatigue patterns in ball speed and lower-limb neuromuscular function during a prolonged simulated game. Twenty right-handed collegiate pitchers (ten Division I, ten Division II) completed a seven-inning simulated game, throwing 15 fastballs per inning. Ball speed was recorded for every pitch, and countermovement jump (CMJ) and rating of perceived exertion (RPE) were assessed pre-game and between innings. A mixed-design ANOVA (Group & times; Inning) was used to analyze ball speed, CMJ variables, and RPE. Ball speed showed a significant Group & times; Inning interaction (p = .04): Division I pitchers displayed only a small, non-significant decline across innings (Delta = -2.88%), whereas Division II pitchers demonstrated a significant reduction beginning in the third inning (Delta = -5.73%). In contrast, key CMJ mechanical variables showed significant main effects of Inning, with similar declines in both groups, and RPE increased progressively. These findings indicate that extended pitching induces comparable lower-limb neuromuscular fatigue across competitive levels, but only lower-level pitchers express this fatigue as an early decline in ball speed. CMJ may therefore serve as a sensitive, objective tool to complement ball speed when monitoring fatigue and managing pitching workload.		[Chang, En-Yu; Ho, Chia-An; Lau, Hei-Tung; Wang, Pei-Hsuan; Ho, Chin-Shan] Natl Taiwan Sport Univ, Grad Inst Sports Sci, Taoyuan 33301, Taiwan; [Yeh, Hung-Chih] Natl Ilan Univ, Sports Educ Ctr, Yilan, Taiwan; [Lin, Wei-Hsuan] Natl Taiwan Sport Univ, Dept Sport Training Sci Balls, Taoyuan, Taiwan; [Ho, Chin-Shan] Natl Taiwan Sport Univ, Grad Inst Sports Sci, Taoyuan 33301, Taiwan								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001808290500001	45	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Wong, Jasper; Wyatt, Hannah E.; Whatman, Chris; Cross, Matt R.; Sheerin, Kelly								The association between running velocity, cadence, and tibial acceleration in recreational runners in an outdoor environment								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2026.2693712				2026	Advances in wearable technology have improved the ability to measure spatiotemporal gait parameters and training metrics in real-world environments, providing greater insight into how runners accumulate mechanical load. While spatiotemporal parameters such as velocity and cadence are associated with tibial acceleration (TA), these relationships have typically been examined at fixed velocities under controlled conditions, and do not consider their potential interaction or reflect real-world running conditions. The purpose of this study was to investigate the association between running velocity, cadence and TA in an outdoor environment. One hundred recreational runners ran on an athletics track at five velocities, ranging from very slow to very fast, based on their self-selected training pace. The results showed a significant interaction effect between cadence and velocity for both axial (p=0.002) and resultant TA (p<0.001). The estimated increase in axial TA for every 1-step increase in cadence ranged from 0.017 g to 0.042 g across the five velocity bands. For resultant TA, the estimated increase ranged from 0.006 g to 0.082 g. These findings suggest that cadence had a larger effect on TA at faster velocities, highlighting the importance of monitoring cadence in conjunction with velocity to inform TA.		[Wong, Jasper; Wyatt, Hannah E.; Whatman, Chris; Cross, Matt R.; Sheerin, Kelly] Auckland Univ Technol, Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand, Auckland, New Zealand; [Wyatt, Hannah E.] Univ Canterbury, Sports Hlth & Rehabil Res Cluster, Christchurch, New Zealand; [Wyatt, Hannah E.] Univ Canterbury, Biomol Interact Ctr, Christchurch, New Zealand; [Wong, Jasper] Auckland Univ Technol, Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand, Auckland, New Zealand								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001810183200001	40	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Tang, Yunqi; Man, Huangfu; Li, Xinyue; Ding, Yihe; Wang, Rong; Li, Meixi; Niu, Yuhong								Immediate effects of ankle brace design on mediolateral postural control and perceived support in young adults with functional ankle instability								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				80						101947	10.1016/j.ptsp.2026.101947			JUL 2026	2026	Objective: To compare the immediate effects of three ankle brace designs-a single-strap ankle brace (SPAB), a figure-eight elastic ankle brace (FEAB), and a semi-rigid ankle brace (SRAB)-on static balance, landing-related postural stability, perceived stability, and comfort in young adults with functional ankle instability (FAI). Design: Randomised crossover laboratory study. Setting: Biomechanics laboratory. Participants: Twenty-two young adults with clinically defined FAI (21 unilateral, one bilateral). Main outcome measures: Centre-of-pressure sway during single-leg quiet stance, dynamic postural stability indices during single-leg landing, and 100-mm visual analogue scales of perceived stability and comfort. Mediolateral sway velocity (Sway V-ML) and mediolateral stability index (MLSI) were prespecified as primary outcomes. Results: FEAB reduced Sway V-ML versus unbraced (7.61%, p = 0.013, Cohen's d_av = 0.37) and total sway velocity versus unbraced, SPAB, and SRAB (5.69%-9.25%, all p <= 0.037). FEAB also reduced MLSI versus unbraced (10.61%, p < 0.001, d_av = 0.53) and SRAB (8.17%, p = 0.033, d_av = 0.38). Sway-area variables, DPSI, APSI, and VSI showed no significant differences. All braces increased perceived stability, whereas SRAB was least comfortable. Conclusion: FEAB showed modest, direction-specific short-term benefits in mediolateral postural control without reducing comfort, supporting task-specific brace selection in FAI rehabilitation.		[Tang, Yunqi; Man, Huangfu; Li, Xinyue; Ding, Yihe; Li, Meixi] Shaanxi Univ Sci & Technol, Coll Art & Design, Xian 710021, Shaanxi, Peoples R China; [Wang, Rong] Shaanxi Univ Sci & Technol, Coll Bioresources Chem & Mat Engn, Xian 710021, Peoples R China; [Niu, Yuhong] Xian Med Univ, Sch Nursing & Rehabil, Xian 710021, Shaanxi, Peoples R China; [Tang, Yunqi] Shaanxi Univ Sci & Technol, Coll Art & Design, Xian 710021, Shaanxi, Peoples R China; [Niu, Yuhong] Xian Med Univ, Sch Nursing & Rehabil, Xian 710021, Shaanxi, Peoples R China								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001812942900001	39	Article; Article		
J	Almutairi, Anwar B.; Alabdelwahab, Abdullah Y.; Alkhalidi, Maraheb; Theobald, Peter								Knowledge and attitudes toward sport-related concussion among coaches and athletes in Middle East and North Africa region: Preliminary results								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261462097				2026	The aim of the study is to utilize the Rosenbaum Concussion Knowledge and Attitudes Survey (RoCKAS) with adults in the middle east and north Africa (MENA) to examine the knowledge and attitudes of adult athletes and coaches participating in any sports using exploratory cross-sectional study design. Independent sample t-testes, analysis of variance (ANOVA) and multiple regression analysis were utilized. The responses were collected from 253 participants (Athletes = 200; Coaches = 53). Among athletes, CKI was significantly different between genders (p = 0.002), athletic level (p = 0.023), and sport type (p = 0.007). For athletes, age groups significantly differed in CAI scores (p = 0.031) and athletic level (p = 0.01). For coaches, both CKI and CAI were significantly different between age groups (p = 0.025 & p = 0.04). Having a diploma or bachelor's degree was a significant predictor of decreased CKI (B = -5.27, p = 0.005 & B = -3.19, p = 0.003, respectively). In coaches, having 6-10 years of experience (B = 6.48, p = 0.036) or >15 years of experience (B = 10.73, p = 0.008) were significant predictors of increased CKI scores. In conclusion, athletes and coaches in MENA appear to have the basic foundational knowledge of SRC and some degree of safe attitude toward SRC. In coaches, years of experience were predictor of sport-related concussion (SRC) knowledge and attitude. Tailored awareness is needed for athletes and coaches across different sports in MENA to improve their recognition and management of SRC.		[Almutairi, Anwar B.] Kuwait Univ, Fac Allied Hlth Sci, Phys Therapy Dept, POB 5969, Safat 13060, Kuwait; [Alabdelwahab, Abdullah Y.] Fortis Rehabil Ctr, Hawally, Kuwait; [Alkhalidi, Maraheb] Kuwait Univ, Fac Med, Community Med Dept, Safat, Kuwait; [Theobald, Peter] Cardiff Univ, Sch Engn, Cardiff, Wales; [Almutairi, Anwar B.] Kuwait Univ, Fac Allied Hlth Sci, Phys Therapy Dept, POB 5969, Safat 13060, Kuwait								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001805747700001	30	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Coleman, Steve; Uthoff, Aaron; Spencer, Kirsten								Quantifying technical and physical performance across oceania youth football academy age groups: A comprehensive analysis of training and match demands using foot-mounted inertial measurement units								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261462823				2026	The transition from youth academy to professional football requires players to adapt to progressively increasing physical and technical demands, yet simultaneous quantification of these demands across the developmental pathway remains limited. This study employed foot-mounted inertial measurement units (IMUs) to profile the technical and physical performance of 67 male academy football players across three age groups (U16, U18, U20) during training (n = 1808 observations) and competitive matches (n = 606 observations) over a full season. Results demonstrated that the U20 cohort exhibited significantly higher technical involvement (3.84 vs. 3.18 touches/min, p < 0.001) and greater maximum release velocities (16.58 vs. 15.57 m/s right foot, p < 0.001) compared to the U16 group during training. The transition from training to match-play revealed dramatically increased physical intensity (work rate up 110-130%, d > 3.0) alongside a 60-70% reduction in technical actions per minute (d > 1.0), highlighting the unique stress of competition. Speed zone analysis indicated the U20 group covered a significantly higher proportion of total distance at high speeds (>3.6 m/s; p < 0.001). Positional analyses revealed distinct physical and technical fingerprints, with midfielders exhibiting the highest work rates and forwards demonstrating the greatest frequency of intense speed changes. Microcycle analysis confirmed progressive tapering from MD-4 to match day, with the U20 group maintaining higher intensities closer to competition. These findings provide practitioners with age- and position-specific benchmarks for training and match-play, facilitating targeted developmental interventions and evidence-based load management in elite youth football.		[Coleman, Steve; Uthoff, Aaron] Auckland Univ Technol, Auckland, New Zealand; [Spencer, Kirsten] Auckland Univ Technol, Sch Sport, SPRINZ, Exercise & Hlth, 90 Akoranga Dr, Auckland 1142, New Zealand; [Spencer, Kirsten] Auckland Univ Technol, Sch Sport, SPRINZ, Exercise & Hlth, 90 Akoranga Dr, Auckland 1142, New Zealand								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001805744400001	19	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Michaud, Laurence; Lavalliere, Martin; Tremblay, Mathieu								Pain-free pedalling: A pre-event mobility intervention reduces musculoskeletal discomfort in recreational cyclists								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261459672				2026	Recreational cyclists often participate in events that exceed their usual activity levels, increasing the risk of musculoskeletal discomfort. Reduced flexibility is a contributing factor, yet no studies have examined mobility interventions to address this issue. This randomized controlled trial investigated the effects of a 6-week pre-event mobility intervention on musculoskeletal discomfort scores, the number of participants reporting discomfort by body region, and active flexibility in recreational cyclists participating in a two-day, 250-km ride. Fifteen participants were allocated to a control group (n = 7), maintaining their usual training, or an intervention group (n = 8), completing the mobility intervention. All participants completed questionnaires and flexibility tests before and after the intervention. The intervention group showed a significant reduction in musculoskeletal discomfort scores (12 [4.3] pre vs 4.5 [3.5] post; p = 0.029), whereas no significant change was observed in the control group (10 [13.0] vs 12 [11.0]; p = 0.446). The number of participants reporting discomfort by body region increased in the control group but remained stable in the intervention group, with no significant between-group difference (MD = 1.2; p = 0.052). Greater improvements in active flexibility were observed in the intervention group for the posterior chain (MD = -8.6; t = -2.663; p = 0.013), while flexibility of the soleus decreased in both groups but declined less in the intervention group (MD = -2.8; t = -2.146; p = 0.041). These findings suggest that adding mobility intervention before a recreational cycling event may reduce discomfort and support flexibility.		[Michaud, Laurence; Tremblay, Mathieu] Univ Quebec Rimouski UQAR, Dept Hlth Sci, Rimouski, PQ, Canada; [Michaud, Laurence; Lavalliere, Martin; Tremblay, Mathieu] UQAR, Collect Rech Sante Reg CoRSeR, Rimouski, PQ, Canada; [Lavalliere, Martin] Univ Quebec Chicoutimi UQAC, Dept Hlth Sci, Chicoutimi, PQ, Canada; [Lavalliere, Martin] UQAC, Ctr Intersectoriel Sante Durable CISD, Lab Rech Biomecan & Neurophysiol Readaptat Neuromu, Lab BioNR, Chicoutimi, PQ, Canada; [Tremblay, Mathieu] Univ Quebec Rimouski UQAR, Dept Hlth Sci, Rimouski, PQ, Canada; [Tremblay, Mathieu] UQAR, Collect Rech Sante Reg CoRSeR, Rimouski, PQ, Canada; [Tremblay, Mathieu] Univ Quebec Rimouski, Rimouski, PQ, Canada								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001804748200001	45	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Wang, Rui; Guo, Shihua								A One-Year Longitudinal Impact Tracking Study of Participation in Physical Education on Academic Achievements of Chinese High School Students From the Perspective of Development Trajectory Visualization								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT											10.1080/02701367.2026.2672706				2026	Guided by Developmental Systems Theory, this study examined how different trajectories of physical education (PE) participation relate to academic development among Chinese high school students. Using three-wave longitudinal survey data collected between October 2022 and November 2023, latent profile analysis and growth modeling were employed to identify PE participation trajectories and assess their associations with academic performance. It was hypothesized that students maintaining sustained or adaptive engagement in PE would demonstrate greater academic growth than those showing declining participation patterns. Three trajectories were identified: sustained high-investment, fluctuation-adaptation, and gradual disengagement. Students in the sustained high-investment group showed the largest academic improvement (growth = 0.320), followed by the fluctuation-adaptation group (0.123), whereas the gradual disengagement group exhibited minimal change (0.023). The advantage of sustained participation was particularly evident in mathematics performance (growth = 0.351 vs. -0.031). These findings challenge the academic priority paradigm by evidencing the systemic role that PE plays in holistic development, highlighting the value of consistent PE engagement in supporting students' holistic development within educational contexts. This research advances policy optimization by translating sports-education integration from conceptual advocacy into evidence-based practice.		[Wang, Rui] Henan Finance Univ, Zhengzhou, Peoples R China; [Guo, Shihua] Zhengzhou Univ Sci & Technol, Zhengzhou, Peoples R China; [Guo, Shihua] Zhengzhou Univ Sci & Technol, Sch Phys Educ, Zhengzhou 450046, Henan, Peoples R China								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001804453300001	46	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Oh, Jihyun; Wallace, Jessica								Links between concussion history, hypertension, and hypertension contributing factors among adolescent football athletes								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE											10.1080/00913847.2026.2691686				2026	Objective Recent studies show that former professional football players have an increased mid-life risk of cardiovascular disease (CVD), including hypertension related to their prior concussion exposure while playing football. Adolescent football players at risk of concussion are exposed to biopsychosocial risk factors of CVD that increase the likelihood of stroke in adulthood. This study aims to examine the association between concussion history and hypertension among adolescent football athletes, adjusting for health-related anthropometric measures, post-concussion symptoms, and behavioral/environmental factors. Methods Data were drawn from a prospective cohort study's cross-sectional baseline containing self-reported concussion history. A total of 390 adolescent football athletes (mean age = 15.8 +/- 1.2 years) in secondary schools participated in the study. The primary exposure included concussion history (yes/no). Other independent variables included post-concussion symptom scale (PCSS) severity, subjective social status (SSS), sleep disturbance score, and anthropometric measures (waist circumference, BMI, body fat, obesity level). The main outcome variable was blood pressure in the hypertensive range, defined as a binary-coded variable (SBP >= 130 mmHg, DBP >= 80 mmHg). A multivariable logistic regression model was conducted with complete cases (n = 327). Results A total of 31.4% of individuals (n = 121) had blood pressure in the hypertensive range. The multivariable logistic regression analysis showed that body fat is significantly and positively associated with blood pressure in the hypertensive range (AOR = 1.06, p = 0.03). However, concussion history, PCSS severity, SSS, sleep disturbance, waist circumference, and obesity level were not significantly associated (all ps > 0.05). Conclusion Body fat percentage was positively associated with blood pressure in the hypertensive range in this sample, whereas no association with concussion history was observed. The results suggest that risk factors noted in former professional football athletes may not strongly impact blood pressure in adolescence but could raise concerns for increased CVD risk as these athletes move through the lifespan.		[Oh, Jihyun; Wallace, Jessica] Univ Alabama, Dept Hlth Sci, Athlet Training Program, Tuscaloosa, AL USA; [Oh, Jihyun] Univ Alabama, Dept Hlth Sci, 270 Kilgore Lane,2121 Capital Hall, Tuscaloosa, AL 35401 USA								0							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001803435600001	50	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	McIntosh, Ben; Rennie, Michael J.; Novak, Andrew R.; Duffield, Rob								Accuracy and agreement of play the ball coding in rugby league								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261461381				2026	Play the ball (PTB) is an important tactical performance indicator in elite rugby league, referring to the action whereby a tackled ball carrier restarts play by rolling the ball underfoot to a teammate following a completed tackle. Despite its growing use in applied performance analysis, the accuracy of commercially coded PTB duration data has not been verified. This study aimed to assess the agreement between commercial and independently coded play the ball event durations from National Rugby League matches. A cross-sectional methodological design was employed using data from 1185 matches over six seasons (2018-2023). A stratified random sample of 372 PTB events was selected within eight standard deviation (SD) categories. Commercial coding of PTB duration was compared against independent coding with stopwatch during playback of official broadcast. Agreement was evaluated using intraclass correlation coefficients (ICCs), typical error of measurement (TEM), and Wilcoxon Signed Rank Tests for systematic bias. Agreement was poor for short-duration PTBs (<2.44 s; ICC = -0.03 to 0.32), with systematic underestimation by the commercial provider (e.g., < -3 SD: mean difference = -3.15 s; TEM = 2.51 s; p < 0.001). Agreement improved for moderate-to-long PTBs (>= 2.48 s; ICC = 0.75-0.90), with strongest agreement observed in the 1-2 SD category (ICC = 0.90; TEM = 0.09 s; p = 0.60). Commercial PTB coding demonstrated acceptable agreement for moderate and longer durations but may misrepresent very rapid PTBs. Ongoing evaluation to ensure accurate PTB event coding is warranted given the importance of ruck speed in professional rugby league matchplay.		[McIntosh, Ben; Rennie, Michael J.; Novak, Andrew R.; Duffield, Rob] Univ Technol Sydney, Fac Hlth, Sch Human Performance Rehabil & Populat Hlth, Moore Pk Precinct, Moore Pk, NSW 2021, Australia; [McIntosh, Ben] Eastern Suburbs Dist Rugby League Football Club, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [McIntosh, Ben] Univ Technol Sydney, Fac Hlth, Sch Human Performance Rehabil & Populat Hlth, Moore Pk Precinct, Moore Pk, NSW 2021, Australia								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001804164200001	21	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Grootenboer, Peter								Learning beach volleyball: An ethnographic case study								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261462826				2026	Background Learning sport is more than just learning how to play and it involves more that just formal training sessions. Therefore, here learning beach volleyball was investigated broadly using practice theory.Objectives Applying a site-ontological practice theory perspective, this ethnographic study sought to understand learning beach volleyball 'as it happened'.Methods The participants were fundamentally junior boy beach volleyball players aged 14 years (N = 12) and their coach (and researcher). Ethnographic methods were employed over a three-month period to gather data including video-recordings, fieldnotes, and informal interviews.Results Learning beach volleyball happened beyond the formal sites of coaching - it occurred in a range of sites with different groups of people and in different ways. As they engaged in their various volleyball practices, each player developed and then they brought their new and emerging skills and knowledge to their games.Conclusion Learning is not something that only occurs in training sessions with a coach - it happens in a variety of different sites, and it is multi-faceted and complex. Therefore, to understand and support athlete development, a broader view of how and where they learn is required.		[Grootenboer, Peter] Griffith Univ, Educ & Profess Studies, Brisbane, Australia; [Grootenboer, Peter] Griffith Univ, Educ & Profess Studies, Brisbane, Australia								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001802646300001	15	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Mbatha, Thembisile; Morris-Eyton, Heather								Coaching against the odds: Challenges impacting the progress of female football coaches in South Africa								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261454338				2026	Despite the global growth of women's football, female coaches remain underrepresented, particularly in leadership and elite coaching roles. In South Africa, historical inequalities, entrenched gender norms, and organisational barriers continue to shape coaching pathways. This study examined the challenges impacting the progression of women football coaches in South Africa, using LaVoi and Dutove's (2012) ecological model for women coaches to focus on intrapersonal, interpersonal, organisational, and socio-cultural influences on coaching experiences and career advancement. A quantitative research design was employed, with data collected from women football coaches (n = 135) across South Africa using a structured questionnaire. The questionnaire gathered demographic information and explored perceptions of coaching competence, organisational support, discrimination, access to opportunities, and professional development. Descriptive statistics were used to analyse the data and identify key patterns. The findings indicate that most participants reported confidence in their coaching competence and ability to motivate athletes. However, significant challenges were identified, including limited access to mentorship, inadequate organisational support, restricted professional development opportunities, and experiences of gender-based discrimination. These constraints were perceived to hinder career progression despite individual capability and commitment. The study concludes that the protracted advancement of women football coaches in South Africa is influenced less by individual competence and more by persistent structural, cultural, and organisational barriers. Addressing these challenges requires targeted organisational reforms, inclusive policies, and sustainable mentorship and support structures to promote equity in football coaching.		[Mbatha, Thembisile; Morris-Eyton, Heather] Univ Johannesburg, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Sport & Movement Studies, Johannesburg, South Africa; [Mbatha, Thembisile] Univ Johannesburg, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Sport & Movement Studies, Johannesburg, South Africa								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001802639700001	43	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	De Paula Ramos, Solange; De Melo, Roberto Vieira; Bursaca, Jonatas Alves De Oliveira; Costa, Felipe Kuerten Moro; Rinaldo, Marcio Aparecido								Determinants of goalkeeper defensive performance in professional futsal: A multilevel analysis of match and shot contexts								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261462904				2026	This study investigated match-level (260 matches) and shot-level (3725 saves and 675 goals) factors associated with goalkeeper performance in professional futsal. Match-level variables included competitive division, match location, outfield-player defensive actions, outfield-player saves, and missed shots. Goalkeepers save percentage was calculated for each match and analyzed using generalized linear mixed models (GLMM). Shot-levels analysis investigated the variables associated with goal occurrence probability, including tactical context, set-piece situations, shot distance, shot height, and goalkeeper positioning using GLMM. Goalkeepers save percentage averaged 84.3 +/- 10.0%. Match-level analysis revealed no significant associations between goalkeeper save percentage and competition level, match location, outfield-player defensive actions, outfield-player saves, or missed shots (all p > 0.05). In contrast, shot-level analysis demonstrated that transition superiority situations (OR = 2.28, p < 0.001), rebounds (OR = 3.71, p < 0.001), sending-off situations (OR = 2.77, p < 0.02), flying-goalkeeper attacks (OR = 1.58, P < 0.05), penalties (OR = 6.10, p < 0.05), 10-m free kicks (OR = 3.0, p < 0.01), and direct free kicks (OR = 2.83, p < 0.001)significantly increased goal occurrence probability. Medium (OR = 0.38, p < 0.001) and long-distance (OR = 0.21, p < 0.001) shots were associated with lower scoring probability, whereas high shots (OR = 1.62, p < 0.001) increased the likelihood of conceding a goal. Goalkeeper interventions outside the penalty area (OR = 0.33, p < 0.001) were associated with reduced goal occurrence probability. These findings suggest that goalkeeper defensive performance in professional futsal is primarily influenced by the immediate tactical and situational characteristics of individual shooting scenarios.		[De Paula Ramos, Solange] Univ Estadual Londrina, Ctr Biol Sci, Sports Performance & Hlth Res Lab, Londrina, Brazil; [De Melo, Roberto Vieira] Cascavel Sports & Cultural Assoc ADDECA, Dept Futsal Goalkeeper Training, Cascavel, Brazil; [Bursaca, Jonatas Alves De Oliveira] Corinthians Paulist Sport Club, Dept Futsal Goalkeeper Training, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Costa, Felipe Kuerten Moro] Esporte Futuro Futsal, Dept Goalkeeper Training, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Rinaldo, Marcio Aparecido] Univ Paranaense, Dept Phys Educ, Umuarama, Brazil; [De Paula Ramos, Solange] Univ Estadual Londrina, Rodovia Celso Garcia Cid PR445,Km 380, BR-86055900 Londrina, PR, Brazil								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001800002400001	39	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Pearson, Eden; Lemus, Sergio A.; Otley, Thomas; Jalife, Octavio; Legaz, Pablo; Travascio, Francesco								Automated LESS scoring using OpenCap: Validation and in-season application in collegiate basketball athletes								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261461182				2026	Rapid changes of direction, sudden stops, and jumping are prominent in basketball, contributing to a high incidence of anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) injuries. The Landing Error Scoring System (LESS) is a validated screening tool used to assess ACL injury risk based on kinematic patterns during a drop vertical jump. However, traditional motion capture methods used to obtain the required kinematics are costly and laboratory-dependent, limiting their use for routine athlete monitoring. This study evaluated the agreement between OpenCap, a smartphone-based markerless motion capture platform, and a gold standard Vicon motion capture system, and examined the feasibility of longitudinally monitoring LESS scores in collegiate basketball athletes across a competitive season. For validation, 10 healthy participants (4 males, 6 females) performed drop vertical jumps recorded simultaneously with OpenCap and Vicon. For longitudinal monitoring, 21 NCAA Division I basketball athletes (12 males, 9 females) were assessed at preseason, start of competition, and midseason. OpenCap demonstrated excellent agreement with Vicon (ICC = 0.884). Bland-Altman analysis showed a mean difference of -0.57 (95% CI: -1.19 to 0.05), indicating no systematic bias between systems. LESS scores did not change significantly across the season (p = 0.26), and positional differences were not statistically significant (p = 0.10), although a moderate effect size was observed (eta p2 = 0.062). Poor knee-flexion displacement, one of the most predictive LESS items, was present in approximately one third of athletes. These findings support the validity of OpenCap for facility-based ACL injury risk screening and longitudinal monitoring of athlete movement patterns.		[Pearson, Eden] Univ Miami, Dept Biomed Engn, Coral Gables, FL USA; [Lemus, Sergio A.; Jalife, Octavio; Travascio, Francesco] Univ Miami, Dept Mech & Aerosp Engn, Coral Gables, FL 33146 USA; [Lemus, Sergio A.] Univ North Carolina Chapel Hill, Dept Exercise & Sport Sci, Chapel Hill, NC USA; [Otley, Thomas] Univ Miami, Miller Sch Med, Dept Phys Therapy, Miami, FL USA; [Travascio, Francesco] Univ Miami, Coll Engn, 1251 Mem Dr, MEB 223, Coral Gables, FL 33146 USA; [Legaz, Pablo] Univ Miami, Dept Publ Hlth Sci, Coral Gables, FL USA; [Travascio, Francesco] Univ Miami, Miller Sch Med, Dept Orthopaed, Miami, FL USA; [Travascio, Francesco] Max Biedermann Inst, Biomech Mt Sinai Med Ctr, Miami Beach, FL 33140 USA; [Travascio, Francesco] Univ Miami, Dept Mech & Aerosp Engn, Coral Gables, FL 33146 USA; [Travascio, Francesco] Univ Miami, Coll Engn, 1251 Mem Dr, MEB 223, Coral Gables, FL 33146 USA								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001799600100001	50	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Dasso, Marco; Duthie, Grant; Robertson, Sam; Haycraft, Jade								Determining the accuracy and concurrent validity of a computer vision system for running biomechanics analysis								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261461886				2026	Assessing running biomechanics is crucial for optimising performance and supporting rehabilitation in field-based team sports. While marker-based three-dimensional motion capture systems are considered the reference standard for assessing kinematics in controlled environments, their high cost and limited feasibility restrict on-field application. Recent advancements in computer vision offer more accessible, non-invasive alternatives. This study evaluated the accuracy and concurrent validity of VueMotion, a 2D camera-based computer vision system, for measuring sprinting kinematics. Twenty-five elite and sub-elite athletes completed four maximal 10-metre fly efforts (100 total trials), with their kinematics measured concurrently by VueMotion and a 3D motion capture system integrating infrared cameras and force plates. Root mean square errors for VueMotion peak velocity, ground contact time (GCT), and flight time were 0.19 , 0.01 s, and 0.01 s, respectively. VueMotion mean biases (95% limits of agreement) were -0004 s (-0.014 to 0.005) for flight time, -0.016 m (-0.051 to 0.018) for step length, -0.09 (-0.42 to 0.23) for peak velocity, and -0.14 (-0.56 to 0.29) for instantaneous velocity. GCT and step frequency were 0.004 s (-0.004 to 0.013) and 0.031 Hz (-0.071 to 0.134), respectively. End users implementing the VueMotion system should interpret these findings relative to their assessment objectives, logistical resources, and operational constraints when applying the technology in field-based settings.		[Dasso, Marco; Duthie, Grant; Robertson, Sam; Haycraft, Jade] Victoria Univ, Inst Hlth & Sport IHeS, Melbourne, Australia; [Dasso, Marco] Western Bulldogs Football Club, High Performance Dept, Melbourne, Australia; [Duthie, Grant] Univ Newcastle, Global Sport & Movement Collaborat, Newcastle, Australia; [Duthie, Grant] Univ Newcastle, Coll Hlth Med & Wellbeing, Sch Biomed Sci & Pharm, Newcastle, Australia; [Dasso, Marco] Victoria Univ, 104 Ballarat Rd, Melbourne, Vic 3011, Australia								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001799610200001	65	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Luo, Shiyi; Mediavilla Saldana, Lazaro; Alexandris, Kostas; Franco, Evelia								Examining the mediating roles of involvement and subjective well-being on the relationship between motives and loyalty among winter sport tourists								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP											10.1108/IJSMS-06-2025-0278				2026	Purpose The winter sport market is one of the fastest-growing sectors in the tourism industry; however, winter sport participation has declined in recent years, making the retention of tourist loyalty a critical challenge. This study aims to test a model to predict winter sport tourists' loyalty through their motives, with involvement and subjective well-being (SWB) as mediators.Design/methodology/approach Data were collected from 277 adult winter sport tourists in Spain. A descriptive statistics analysis, confirmatory factor analysis (CFA) and structural equation modeling (SEM) were conducted. Finally, mediation analyses were performed.Findings The relationships between three motives (escape, enjoying nature, and excitement) and loyalty were fully mediated by serial mediation through involvement and SWB. Moreover, although most direct relationships between motives and loyalty were nonsignificant, certain motives were either positively or negatively associated with involvement and SWB, which subsequently contributed to loyalty.Originality/value This study introduces a novel framework for understanding the formation of loyalty among winter sport tourists, considering the role of SWB. It provides practical insights for destination marketers to better align their offerings with the tourists' motives and psychological needs of this niche market.		[Luo, Shiyi; Mediavilla Saldana, Lazaro] Univ Politecn Madrid, Fac Ciencias Act Fis & Deporte INEF, Madrid, Spain; [Alexandris, Kostas] Aristotle Univ Thessaloniki, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Thessaloniki, Greece; [Franco, Evelia] Univ Loyola Andalucia, Dept Comunicac & Educ, Seville, Spain; [Luo, Shiyi] Univ Politecn Madrid, Fac Ciencias Act Fis & Deporte INEF, Madrid, Spain								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001796686400001	99	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Edgington, Henry C. A.; Liew, Bernard X. W.; Gholami, Behnam; Barrett, Matthew; Edgington, William S. D.; Moran, Jason								Rugby tackle kinematics in adolescent players: effects of tackle height and shoulder side								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2026.2689501				2026	Tackling is a major injury event in rugby, yet little is known about how adolescents adjust their body position when tackle height and shoulder side are manipulated. This cross-sectional study determined how tackle height and shoulder side influenced neck, trunk, hip, knee, and ankle positions, and centre-of-mass velocity in adolescent rugby players. Fifteen male amateur players (14.86 +/- 0.77 years) completed tackles against a tackle bag under four conditions: regular-height dominant shoulder, low-height dominant shoulder, regular-height non-dominant shoulder, and low-height non-dominant shoulder. Two trials per condition were analysed using eight cameras and the Theia3D motion capture system. Linear mixed-effects models were used to test differences in joint angles and centre-of-mass velocity, with effect sizes reported. Tackle height and shoulder side altered joint positions. Low tackles increased trunk flexion by 16.4 degrees and neck flexion by 7.1 degrees, with the largest deviations when a low target was combined with the non-dominant shoulder, increasing trunk flexion by 29.1 degrees and neck flexion by 10.2 degrees versus regular-height dominant tackles. Hip flexion increased by about 20 degrees, knee flexion changed less, and approach speed was similar between conditions. Coaches should emphasise lowering through the hips and knees, trunk control, head-up positioning, and regular tackle practice on both shoulders.		[Edgington, Henry C. A.; Liew, Bernard X. W.; Gholami, Behnam; Barrett, Matthew; Edgington, William S. D.] Univ Essex, Sch Sport Rehabil & Exercise Sci, Colchester, England; [Moran, Jason] Kings Coll London, Dept AI Preventat Med, London, England; [Edgington, Henry C. A.] Univ Essex, Sch Sport Rehabil & Exercise Sci, Colchester, England								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001797463500001	32	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Martin, Eric A.; Kim, Steven B.; Beckham, George K.; Annesi, James J.								Perceived, but Not Neuromuscular, Fatigue Demonstrated After Doubles Pickleball Competitions								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT											10.1080/02701367.2026.2658537				2026	We assessed if neuromuscular or perceived fatigue would occur after multiple games of doubles pickleball. Sixteen male and 16 female recreational pickleball players participated in an 11-game doubles pickleball competition, one competition for each sex. Before and after the competition, participants completed a perceived fatigue questionnaire and a countermovement jump test (CMJ) to assess neuromuscular performance. Regression analyses were used to examine changes from pre- to post-competition, accounting for sex and the other measured factors. Most CMJ outcomes significantly increased for both sexes, including jump height, net propulsive impulse, and peak propulsive power (p < .001 for all). There were significant differences between the sexes on the magnitude of change in time to takeoff and propulsive phase time, with women decreasing to a greater extent than men (p = .0368 and 0.0196, respectively). Both sexes significantly increased perceived fatigue (p < .001 for both within-group time effects), with men increasing to a significantly greater degree than women (p = .0361). Changes in peak propulsive power, considered the main outcome from the CMJ test, and perceived fatigue scores were not related to each other. Though testing indicated an increase in perceived fatigue, we found no evidence of neuromuscular fatigue. The lack of neuromuscular fatigue may indicate that muscular endurance is not a quality that needs to be focused on in training for doubles pickleball.		[Martin, Eric A.; Kim, Steven B.; Beckham, George K.; Annesi, James J.] Cal State Monterey Bay, Seaside, CA USA; [Martin, Eric A.] 100 Campus Ctr,Valley Hall C108, Seaside, CA 93955 USA								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001797305000001	55	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Sundh, Adam E.; Ripley, Nicholas J.; Lamb, A. J.; VerVoort, Devin S.; Comfort, Paul								A multidimensional evaluation of various isometric posterior chain strength assessments: Comparative force production characteristics, administrative feasibility, and athlete-reported experience								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261459652				2026	Isometric posterior chain strength assessments are increasingly employed in high-performance sports for benchmarking and fatigue monitoring, yet little is known about how practical implementation factors influence protocol selection. The aim of this study was to examine the feasibility, practicality, participant perceptions, and reliability of four commonly used isometric posterior chain assessments, the long-lever bridge (LLB), standing 90:20, supine 90:90, and supine 30:30. Thirty-seven NCAA division II athletes (19 females: age = 20.1 +/- 0.9 years, height = 166.7 +/- 5.2 cm, body mass = 67.0 +/- 12.1 kg; and 18 males: 19.7 +/- 1.2 years, height = 178.9 +/- 6.6 cm, body mass 79.8 +/- 8.1 kg) completed all four protocols in randomized order across four sessions. Protocol duration, athlete-reported perceptions (effort, comfort, soreness), and within-session reliability of force-time characteristics were assessed. Protocol duration ranged from 2:30 to 3:20 min, with the LLB requiring the longest setup time. The supine 90:90 was consistently rated the easiest and most comfortable assessment, particularly among female athletes, while the LLB was rated as the most demanding. Peak force demonstrated excellent reliability across all protocols (intraclass correlation coefficient lower bound 95% confidence interval > 0.90, coefficient of variation < 5%), though rapid force production ranged between poor-good reliability at early force-time points (50-250 ms). These findings demonstrate that no single protocol optimizes all criteria simultaneously. Protocol selection should balance measurement quality with practical feasibility, guided by the primary monitoring objective and whether sustained athlete compliance or comprehensive force production profiling is prioritized.		[Sundh, Adam E.; Ripley, Nicholas J.; Comfort, Paul] Univ Salford, Sch Hlth & Soc, Salford M5 4WT, England; [Sundh, Adam E.; Lamb, A. J.] Chicago Bears Football Club, Lake Forest, IL 60045 USA; [VerVoort, Devin S.] Purdue Univ Northwest, Dept Athlet, Hammond, IN 46323 USA; [Comfort, Paul] Edith Cowan Univ, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, Joondalup 6027, Australia; [Sundh, Adam E.] 1920 Football Dr, Lake Forest, IL 60045 USA								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001797664200001	41	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Cetindemir, Abdullah; Tokul, Erdi; Cihan, Hamit; Mulazimoglu, Olcay; Isikdemir, Erhan; Turan, Cagatay; Nakamura, Fabio Yuzo; Pimenta, Ricardo								Evolution of physical and technical performance in the Turkish Super League								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261452985				2026	This study compared physical and technical performance parameters of matches across three consecutive seasons (2020-2023) in the Turkish Super League (TSL). A total of 936 official matches were analyzed. Four physical and fourteen technical performance parameters were evaluated using one-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) applied to season-averaged match data. Performance parameters demonstrated overall improvements across the three seasons; total distance covered (TD) similar to 6% corresponding to a large effect size (ES) (p < .001, eta(2) = 0.20), high-intensity running (HSR) similar to 10% reflecting a medium ES (p < .001, eta(2) = 0.12), sprint similar to 20.3%; however, this change was associated with a small-to-medium ES (p < .001, eta(2) = 0.10), maximal speed (MSS) similar to 1.2% corresponded to a small ES (p < .001, eta(2) = 0.06). Offensive performance showed gains in expected goals (xG) similar to 13%, box entries similar to 7.2%, passes similar to 3%, completed passes similar to 2.6%, key passes similar to 20% and completed key passes similar to 17.5% (all p < 0.05). Defensive actions also improved, with interceptions similar to 5% and duels similar to 4%, though the magnitude of change corresponded to a small effect size (eta(2) approximate to 0.01). These findings suggest progressive enhanced physical and technical performance, indicating an overall increase in match intensity across seasons in the TSL.		[Cetindemir, Abdullah; Tokul, Erdi; Cihan, Hamit] Trabzon Univ, Fac Sports Sci, Trabzon, Turkiye; [Mulazimoglu, Olcay] Mugla Sitki Kocman Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Mugla, Turkiye; [Isikdemir, Erhan] Nevsehir Haci Bektas Veli Univ, Fac Sports Sci, Nevsehir, Turkiye; [Turan, Cagatay] Caykur Rizespor FC, Dept Athlet Performance, Rize, Turkiye; [Nakamura, Fabio Yuzo; Pimenta, Ricardo] Univ Maia, Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev CIDESD, Maia, Portugal; [Nakamura, Fabio Yuzo; Pimenta, Ricardo] Football Sci Inst, FSI Lab, Granada, Spain; [Nakamura, Fabio Yuzo] Univ Fed Pernambuco, Grad Program Phys Educ, Recife, Brazil; [Pimenta, Ricardo] Maia Polytech Inst IPMAIA, Polytech Inst Maia N2i, Res Ctr, P-4475690 Castelo Da Maia, Maia, Portugal; [Pimenta, Ricardo] Futebol Clube Famalicao Futebol SAD, Dept Rehabil & Optimizat Performance, Famalicao, Portugal; [Pimenta, Ricardo] Univ Porto, Fac Sport, Porto Biomech Lab, Porto, Portugal; [Cetindemir, Abdullah] Trabzon Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Coaching Educ, Adnan Kahveci Bulvari, TR-61335 Trabzon, Turkiye								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001797661600001	43	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Souza, Pedro C.; Hamad, Kaio M.; Santos, Marcel F.; Guerra, Ricardo L. F.								Biological maturation influences muscle power, which is associated with competitive performance in adolescent male surfers								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261459883				2026	The aim of this study was to examine the influence of biological maturation on physical capacities and competitive performance in young surfers by analyzing groups under and over 16 years of age during an official surfing competition. Twenty-six surfers were divided into two groups: under 16 years (n = 15) and over 16 years (n = 11). Maturity Offset (MO), Countermovement Jump (CMJ; height, relative power), Medicine Ball Throw (MBT), fat percentage, and Total Heat Score (THS; sum of the two highest wave scores) were assessed. Pearson's correlation and multiple linear regression analyses were used to examine associations between variables. Among surfers under 16, MO showed significant correlations with MBT (r = 0.66), CMJ height (r = 0.59), CMJ power (r = 0.90), and relative CMJ power (r = 0.75). THS correlated positively with CMJ height (r = 0.52) and relative CMJ power (r = 0.52). In surfers over 16, no significant correlations were found between variables. Biological maturation significantly influences muscle power in surfers under 16, indirectly affecting competitive performance. After this age, maturation effects appear attenuated as other factors such as technical-tactical abilities become decisive for success. Results suggest caution in talent selection based solely on competitive results.		[Souza, Pedro C.] City Hall Municipal Santos, Santos High Performance Surfing Ctr, Santos, SP, Brazil; [Souza, Pedro C.; Hamad, Kaio M.; Santos, Marcel F.; Guerra, Ricardo L. F.] Univ Fed Sao Paulo, Dept Human Movement Sci, Sport Sci Lab, Santos, SP, Brazil; [Souza, Pedro C.] UNIFESP, Sports Sci Lab, Rua Quinze Novembro 195,6th Floor, BR-11010151 Santos, SP, Brazil								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001797234200001	48	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Fitzgerald, F.; Campbell, M. J.; Kearney, P. E.; Cumming, S.								Academy coaches' experiences of managing individual differences in the maturity of male Gaelic football players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	4			2279	2292		10.1177/17479541261460816			AUG 2026	2026	Player selection for representative teams is often based upon subjective assessments of player ability and potential (i.e., the 'coaches' eye'), which may be confounded by individual difference in biological maturation (Fitzgerald et al., 2024). Little is known about coaches' perceptions and understanding of growth and maturation, particularly in relation to the processes of player selection and development. This study explored coaches' knowledge, beliefs and experiences related to the impact of growth and maturation upon player selection and development in Gaelic football. Using qualitative methods, 12 coaches from an academy in Ireland participated in focus groups to explore their beliefs and experiences related to this topic. Data were analysed using reflexive thematic analysis. The findings indicated that coaches were aware of the physical and functional changes that occur during puberty and the differing performance trajectories of early- and late-maturing players. Similarly, they identified challenges in initial selection of players, including maturity and size-based biases, and the long-term implications of maturation upon success at the adult level. A gap emerged between coaches' knowledge of growth and maturation and their ability to design and implement effective support strategies, with approaches varying among coaches. Additionally, all coaches expressed a strong desire for further education on this topic. There is a need for bespoke educational initiatives for academy coaches focused on developing a rich set of strategies to support players of varying maturation through identification and development, as well as a process for identifying the optimal strategy for the context.		[Fitzgerald, F.] Munster Technol Univ Kerry, Dept Hlth & Leisure, Tralee, Kerry, Ireland; [Fitzgerald, F.; Campbell, M. J.; Kearney, P. E.] Univ Limerick, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Limerick, Ireland; [Fitzgerald, F.] Kerry GAA, Performance & Res Dept, Kerry, Ireland; [Fitzgerald, F.; Campbell, M. J.; Kearney, P. E.] Univ Limerick, Sport & Human Performance Res Ctr, Limerick, Ireland; [Cumming, S.] Univ Bath, Dept Hlth, Bath, England; [Fitzgerald, F.] Munster Technol Univ Kerry, Dept Hlth & Leisure, Tralee, Kerry, Ireland								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001797239900001	79	Article; Article		
J	Sodejani, Sajad Heydari; Saki, Farzaneh; Yalfani, Ali								Core muscle endurance and balance as predictors of lateral ankle sprain in adolescent team-sport athletes: a prospective cohort study								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE											10.1080/00913847.2026.2688752				2026	Background Lateral ankle sprain is a common and recurrent injury among adolescent athletes, particularly in team sports that involve jumping, cutting, and single-leg landing. Identifying practical preseason predictors may help guide targeted injury-prevention strategies. Objective This prospective cohort study aimed to determine whether preseason measures of core muscle endurance, static balance, and dynamic balance could predict future lateral ankle sprain in adolescent male team-sport athletes. Design A prospective cohort study. Methods A total of 152 male adolescent athletes competing in soccer, volleyball, basketball, and handball were followed prospectively for 20 months. Baseline assessments included trunk flexor and extensor endurance, right and left side plank endurance, static balance, and dynamic balance in three directions (anterior, posteromedial, posterolateral) as well as a composite score. Lateral ankle sprain was defined as a non-contact inversion injury that caused time loss from training or competition. Variables with p < 0.20 in the univariate analyses were entered into a multivariable logistic regression model using forward stepwise (likelihood ratio) selection. Model performance was evaluated using odds ratios, Nagelkerke's R2, Hosmer-Lemeshow goodness-of-fit, and receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis.ResultsDuring follow-up, 34 athletes (22.4%) sustained a lateral ankle sprain. In the multivariable model, two independent predictors were retained: trunk extensor endurance (OR = 0.989, 95% CI: 0.980-0.998, p = 0.020) and dynamic balance composite score (OR = 0.937, 95% CI: 0.901-0.975, p = 0.001). The model demonstrated good calibration (Hosmer-Lemeshow p = 0.616) and explained 22.4% of the variability in injury status (Nagelkerke R2 = 0.224). The combined model showed moderate discriminative ability (AUC = 0.751, 95% CI: 0.664-0.837, p < 0.001), with an optimal cutoff yielding 88.2% sensitivity and 55.1% specificity. Conclusion In adolescent team-sport athletes, lower trunk extensor endurance and poorer dynamic balance were associated with a higher likelihood of lateral ankle sprain. Assessment of these two simple field-based measures may aid preseason injury risk screening. However, the model should be validated in independent cohorts before clinical application.		[Sodejani, Sajad Heydari; Saki, Farzaneh; Yalfani, Ali] Bu Ali Sina Univ, Fac Sports Sci, Dept Exercise Rehabil, Ahmadi Roshan Blvd, Hamadan 6517838695, Iran; [Saki, Farzaneh] Bu Ali Sina Univ, Fac Sports Sci, Dept Exercise Rehabil, Ahmadi Roshan Blvd, Hamadan 6517838695, Iran								0							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001796287100001	35	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Zamani, Mohammad Hossein; Hashemi, Ayoub; Razeghi, Rahil; Abedanzadeh, Rasool; Marchant, David								Effect of Visual Illusion on Motor Skills Learning in Boys With Developmental Coordination Disorder: A School-Based Randomized Controlled Trial								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT											10.1080/02701367.2026.2684257				2026	Children with Developmental Coordination Disorder (DCD) have deficits in visual perception and motor planning, which negatively impact motor learning. To address this, paradigms that manipulate visual perception during training have been proposed. This study investigated the influence of a visual illusion-based training paradigm, which alters the perceptual size of a target, on learning a beanbag throwing skill in children with DCD. A school- based randomized controlled trial was conducted in nine public schools. Seventy five males with DCD (Mean Age: 8.50 +/- .63, IQ > 70) practiced a beanbag throwing task under one of three conditions: with a visual illusion inducing a perceptually smaller target (n = 25), a perceptually larger target (n = 25) and without visual illusion (n = 25). Motor learning was assessed using a retention task at 48 hours after the last practice session. The visual illusion significantly altered perceptions of target size. There were significant differences between the intervention groups in both the acquisition (F (2, 72) = 29.75, p < .001) and retention (F (2, 72) = 32.95, p < .001) phases, indicating that children with DCD demonstrated superior learning of the beanbag throwing task when the target was perceived as smaller than it actually was. These findings suggest that manipulating visual perception through illusions can be an effective clinical or educational strategy for enhancing motor skill training in children with DCD. This approach optimizes motor planning by providing a more constrained perceptual goal, offering a practical tool for motor interventions.		[Zamani, Mohammad Hossein] Jahroum Univ, Jahrom, Iran; [Hashemi, Ayoub] Univ Yasuj, Yasuj, Iran; [Razeghi, Rahil] Univ Kharazmi, Tehran, Iran; [Abedanzadeh, Rasool] Shahid Chaman Univ Ahvaz, Ahvaz, Iran; [Marchant, David] Edge Hill Univ, Ormskirk, England; [Abedanzadeh, Rasool] Shahid Chaman Univ Ahvaz, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Motor Behav & Sport Psychol, Ahvaz, Iran								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001819824300001	75	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Karasiak, Fabio C.; Reis, Gabriel F.; Galvao, Luciano G.; Balbino Jr, Sandro; Leonardi, Thiago J.; Mendes, Felipe G.; Soares, Andre L. A.; Lima, Ahlan B.; Goncalves, Carlos E.; Carvalho, Humberto M.								Developmental changes of vertical jump performance in young female basketball and volleyball players: A Bayesian multilevel modeling approach								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261455141				2026	This study examined developmental trajectories of vertical jump performance in young female basketball and volleyball players using Bayesian multilevel modeling. Eighty-one Brazilian female athletes (basketball: n = 46; volleyball: n = 35) aged 11-18 years were assessed between 2016-2024 in a mixed longitudinal design. Models examined longitudinal age-related changes in countermovement jump performance, sport-specific differences, and body size effects. Results showed non-linear developmental patterns with accelerated improvement during early-to-mid adolescence followed by deceleration. Sport differences emerged in baseline performance levels rather than timing. Age effects strengthened after adjusting for body size ( beta age = 0.25, 68% credible interval [CI]: 0.17, 0.34; beta age 2 = -0.18, 68% CI: -0.28, -0.08), indicating neuromuscular adaptations distinct from increases in body size. Body mass negatively associated with jump performance ( beta body mass = -0.35, 68% CI: -0.44, -0.25), while stature positively associated ( beta s t a t u r e = 0.20, 68% CI: 0.10, 0.29). Volleyball players demonstrated lower baseline performance than basketball players ( beta v o l l e y b a l l = -0.35, 68% CI: -0.43, -0.27). Substantial between-athlete variability in baseline performance ( sigma i n t e r c e p t = 0.31) suggests limited predictive validity of early assessments. Our findings provide substantial female-specific evidence for developmental patterns in youth team sport athletes and demonstrate the utility of Bayesian methods for handling incomplete longitudinal data.		[Karasiak, Fabio C.; Galvao, Luciano G.; Balbino Jr, Sandro; Soares, Andre L. A.; Lima, Ahlan B.; Carvalho, Humberto M.] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Sch Sports, Florianopolis, SC, Brazil; [Reis, Gabriel F.; Carvalho, Humberto M.] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Sch Philosophy & Human Sci, Grad Program Psychol, Florianopolis, SC, Brazil; [Leonardi, Thiago J.] Univ Estadual Campinas, Fac Phys Educ, Campinas, SP, Brazil; [Mendes, Felipe G.] Univ Luxembourg, Dept Social Sci, Esch Sur Alzette, Luxembourg; [Goncalves, Carlos E.] Univ Coimbra, Fac Sport Sci & Phys Educ, Coimbra, Portugal; [Carvalho, Humberto M.] Lund Univ, Fac Med, Dept Hlth Sci, Lund, Sweden; [Carvalho, Humberto M.] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Ctr Desportos, Dept Educ Fis, Campus Florianopolis, BR-88035972 Florianopolis, SC, Brazil								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001796130200001	42	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Banoocy, Norbert; Lopez-Lopez, Daniel; Ramos-Campo, Domingo Jesus; Saavedra-Garcia, Miguel Angel; Nobari, Hadi								In- and Out-of-Possession Running and Technical-Tactical Performance in Soccer								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT											10.1080/02701367.2026.2674969				2026	This study derived composite indices of attacking and defensive team performance, quantified how in-possession (IP) and out-of-possession (OP) running metrics related to these indices, and assessed contextual effects. 1,346 team-match observations from male teams competing in the Danish Superliga, Denmark's top-tier professional football league, across 3.5 seasons were analyzed using Second Spectrum tracking and Wyscout event data. Principal component analysis generated Attacking and Defensive Performance Indices. Linear mixed-effects models tested associations between phase-specific running metrics and the indices, with team as a random intercept and match result and location as covariates. XGBoost models with SHAP assessed feature importance. Attacking performance was most strongly associated with IP total distance. After adjustment for IP movement volume, IP high-speed running and IP sprint distance showed conditional associations. OP total distance was negatively associated with both indices. Defensive performance was positively associated with OP high-speed running and IP high-intensity run count but negatively associated with IP sprint distance and OP total distance. An OP sprint distance & times; location interaction indicated that higher OP sprint distance related to lower defensive performance mainly in away matches. Match result showed small independent effects. XGBoost showed strong predictive accuracy for attacking (held-out R2 = 0.765) and moderate predictive accuracy for defensive performance (held-out R2 = 0.399), with SHAP confirming IP and OP total distance as dominant predictors. Team performance is closely linked to phase-specific running behavior. Movement volume during possession was the clearest correlate of attacking output, whereas defensive performance reflected lower OP workload and greater high-speed defensive activity.		[Banoocy, Norbert; Lopez-Lopez, Daniel; Saavedra-Garcia, Miguel Angel] Univ A Coruna, La Coruna, Spain; [Ramos-Campo, Domingo Jesus; Nobari, Hadi] Univ Politecn Madrid, Madrid, Spain; [Lopez-Lopez, Daniel] Univ A Coruna, Fac Nursing & Podiatry, Dept Hlth Sci, Res Hlth & Podiatry Grp, Ind Campus Ferrol, Ferrol, Spain								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001795678300001	63	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Nagashima, Yosuke; Tsuchiya, Keigo; Hisaoka, Teruhiko; Sato, Tomonori; Ehara, Yoshitomo; Horikawa, Akiko; Shiohara, Akiyo; Mitsume, Ayana; Mineo, Shigeru; Yoshida, Hiroaki								Five-year longitudinal predictors of clubhead speed in elite junior golfers: Predominant contribution of lean body mass and dietary patterns								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261457580				2026	Objectives This study aimed to identify longitudinal predictors of clubhead speed (CHS) in elite junior golfers and investigate the associations between physical development and habitual dietary patterns across 5 years. Design Five-year longitudinal study. Method Elite junior golfers (n = 323; aged 11-17 years; approximately 50% male) were assessed for CHS, lean body mass (LBM) and dietary intake via a validated questionnaire. The final analysis used n = 244 observations obtained through a standardised CHS measurement protocol. Principal component analysis was used to identify key dietary patterns. Linear mixed models were employed to identify CHS predictors, incorporating age, LBM, sex and dietary factors as fixed effects. Results LBM emerged as the strongest modifiable predictor of CHS (beta = 0.43, p < 0.001), with a standardised coefficient threefold greater than chronological age (beta = 0.14, p < 0.001). Each 1-kg increment in LBM predicted a 0.21 m/s increase in CHS (B = 0.21). Total energy intake positively predicted CHS (beta = 0.09, p = 0.029), whereas a dietary pattern marked by comparatively lower protein and fat intake was negatively associated with improvements (beta = -0.07, p = 0.041). Overall, the cohort exhibited a mean energy deficit of 8%. Conclusions CHS development in elite junior golfers is predicted by functional muscle mass gains rather than passive maturation. For coaches, long-term athletic development programmes may benefit from integrating strength-focused training alongside strategies ensuring adequate energy, protein and fat intake.		[Nagashima, Yosuke; Mitsume, Ayana] Musashigaoka Jr Coll, Dept Hlth Sci, 111-1 Minami Yoshimi,Yoshimi Machi, Hiki, Saitama 3550154, Japan; [Nagashima, Yosuke; Tsuchiya, Keigo; Hisaoka, Teruhiko; Sato, Tomonori; Yoshida, Hiroaki] Kanto Golf Assoc, Chuo, Tokyo, Japan; [Ehara, Yoshitomo] Rikkyo Univ, Coll Sport & Wellness, Niiza, Saitama, Japan; [Horikawa, Akiko] Tokyo Int Univ, Dept Human Dev & Sport Sci, Kawagoe, Saitama, Japan; [Shiohara, Akiyo] Toyo Univ, Fac Food & Nutr Sci, Dept Nutr & Hlth Sci, Asaka, Saitama, Japan; [Mineo, Shigeru] Bourbon Corp, Adv Res Inst, Nutraceut Sci Lab, Kashiwazaki, Niigata, Japan; [Nagashima, Yosuke] Musashigaoka Jr Coll, Dept Hlth Sci, 111-1 Minami Yoshimi,Yoshimi Machi, Hiki, Saitama 3550154, Japan								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001796518200001	36	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Feng, Liangzhu; Liu, Hongyou								Effects of transitions between moderate altitude and sea level on running performance during training in U20 elite male soccer players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261459581				2026	This study aimed to quantify changes in running performance-related parameters in U20 elite male soccer players across transitions between training at moderate-altitude and sea level. Nineteen players from a professional club were monitored across three stages: moderate altitude (2000 m), sea level (<500 m), and return to moderate altitude. Running performance was assessed using 10-Hz GPS, and generalized linear mixed models were applied with altitude stage as a fixed effect and player as a random effect. Results showed substantial reductions in distance per minute (DPM: mean change in percent; +/- 90% confidence intervals; -9%; +/- 3%), high-speed running distance (HSR: -55%; +/- 16%), sprint distance (SprintD: -78%; +/- 30%), explosive accelerations (EAcc: -32%; +/- 7%), and explosive decelerations (EDec: -29%; +/- 8%) from the first stage (moderate altitude) to the second stage (sea level). By contrast, DPM (7%; +/- 4%), HSR (60%; +/- 14%), SprintD (81%; +/- 28%), EAcc (28%; +/- 8%), and EDec (29%; +/- 8%) increased substantially when returning from the second stage (sea level) to the third stage (moderate altitude). These findings indicate that transitions between moderate altitude and sea level induce marked but reversible changes in training running performance, particularly in high-intensity actions. The results highlight the context-specific nature of altitude-related adaptations and may inform training load management in elite youth soccer.		[Feng, Liangzhu; Liu, Hongyou] South China Normal Univ, Res Ctr Sports Performance Anal, Sch Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Guangzhou, Peoples R China; [Liu, Hongyou] South China Normal Univ, Sch Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Guangzhou, Peoples R China								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001796487900001	36	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Coutinho, Andre B. B.; Matta, Thiago T.								Distinct activation patterns of the clavicular and sternal regions of the pectoralis major during the concentric bench press								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261457744				2026	Some strategies can be used to improve pectoralis major (PM) demand such as grip width, movement velocity, type of resistance and range of motion. Also, the normalized surface electromyography is commonly used to assess muscle activity during resistance training and allows the analyses of muscle activation across different portions of the exercise. The investigators aimed to compare sternal and clavicular PM's regions activity at the initial, middle, and final portions of the concentric phase during both flat and incline bench press. External and clavicular portions of PM EMG signals of thirteen males which performed 1 set of maximal repetitions of both flat and incline bench press at 60% of maximal load were analyzed. On flat bench press the final portion of concentric phase had lower muscular activation compared to middle (p < 0.001) and initial (p < 0.001) portions (clavicular) and to middle (p < 0.05) portion (sternal). For incline bench press the middle portion had a higher activity than initial (p < 0.001) and final (p < 0.05) portions at clavicular region while in sternal region final portion was lower than initial and middle (both p < 0.001) portions. The results suggest that reducing the range of motion by excluding the final portion of the concentric phase in the bench press may help maintain higher pectoralis major activation. It can be particularly advantageous in hypertrophy-oriented training, as it avoids the decrease in muscle activity during exercise.		Andre B B Coutinho, Uruguai St 288, BR- 2050052 Rio De Janeiro, RJ, Brazil; [Coutinho, Andre B. B.] Univ Fed Rio de Janeiro, Biomed Engn Program, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil; [Matta, Thiago T.] Univ Fed Rio de Janeiro, Escola Educ Fis & Desportos, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil; [Coutinho, Andre B. B.] Uruguai St 288, BR-2050052 Rio DeJaneiro, RJ, Brazil								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001796522100001	40	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Rodriguez-Campos, Manrique; Crespo, Miguel; Guzman, Jose Francisco; Martinez-Gallego, Rafael								The tactical evolution of the serve: A sequence analysis in elite junior tennis players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261455249				2026	The present study analyzes the serve+1 patterns of elite male U12 and U14 tennis players to compare tactical patterns and developmental differences between these age categories. Significant differences were identified in serve direction, third-shot execution, and impact zones between both age groups. U14 players demonstrated a more structured approach, using their serve to control the rally and position themselves advantageously, with a greater proportion of serves directed wide compared to U12 players. Conversely, U12 players exhibited greater variability and a higher frequency of return errors. Furthermore, U12 players executed their third shot from deeper zones, reflecting a more reactive positioning that limited rally control compared to U14 players. Additionally, U14 players showed a higher percentage of shots played from inside the court, allowing them to dictate play from an early stage in the rally. The findings emphasize the importance of serve placement and proactive strategies in junior development. Training interventions should prioritize refining serve+1 sequences, encouraging offensive positioning, and minimizing the returner's control at the start of the rally. Future research should consider the influence of conditional, psychological and biomechanical factors on serve effectiveness and tactical decisions, as well as expand the analysis to female players, different age categories, and various playing surfaces to develop more comprehensive developmental pathways.		[Rodriguez-Campos, Manrique; Crespo, Miguel; Guzman, Jose Francisco; Martinez-Gallego, Rafael] Univ Valencia, Res Grp Sports Tech & Tact, Valencia, Spain; [Crespo, Miguel] Int Tennis Federat, Dev Dept, Bank Lane Roehampton, London SW15 5XZ, England; [Crespo, Miguel] Int Tennis Federat, Dev Dept, Bank Lane Roehampton, London SW15 5XZ, England								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001795978700001	26	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Li, Chu-Hao; Yick, Kit-Lun; Li, Pui-Ling; Liu, Lin; Yip, Joanne								Effects of saddle-height setting methods and fatigue on lower-limb kinematics during indoor cycling in recreational cyclists								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261456102				2026	This study aimed to investigate the effects of different saddle height setting methods and fatigue on lower limb kinematics during indoor cycling in recreational cyclists. Twelve recreational male cyclists completed indoor cycling randomly using three saddle height setting methods-trochanteric length method (TLM), LeMond method (LMM) and knee angle method (KAM)-performed a fatigue protocol. Sagittal-plane ankle, knee and hip kinematic data were collected. Extracted ankle, knee and hip angles at top dead center (TDC), bottom dead center (BDC) and range of motion (ROM) for data analysis. A two-way repeated-measures ANOVA was conducted to examine the main effects of saddle height, fatigue and their interaction. This study found that saddle height setting methods significantly influenced ankle and knee kinematics. Compared with KAM and LMM, TLM resulted in greater ankle (p = 0.01) and knee (p = 0.01) ROM, as well as reduced knee flexion at TDC (p = 0.01) and reduced knee extension at BDC (p = 0.01). Fatigue significantly reduced ankle (p = 0.02) and hip (p = 0.01) angles at TDC but did not affect knee kinematics. A significant saddle height & times; fatigue interaction was observed only for hip range of motion (p = 0.04), with a post-fatigue increase occurring exclusively under LMM condition. Saddle height setting methods substantially influence lower-limb kinematics during cycling, while fatigue induces joint-specific adaptations. Recreational cyclists should consider that different setting methods produce distinct effective heights that influence joint responses to fatigue.		[Li, Chu-Hao; Yick, Kit-Lun; Li, Pui-Ling; Yip, Joanne] Hong Kong Polytech Univ, Sch Fash & Text, Hong Kong 999077, Peoples R China; [Yick, Kit-Lun] Hong Kong Polytech Univ, Res Inst Sports Sci & Technol, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [Liu, Lin] Dongguan Univ Technol, Sch Educ Normal Sch, Dongguan, Peoples R China; [Liu, Lin] Hong Kong Polytech Univ, Hung Hom, Kowloon, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [Yick, Kit-Lun] Hong Kong Polytech Univ, Sch Fash & Text, Hong Kong 999077, Peoples R China								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001795018300001	43	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Taghizadeh, Hossein; Parvizi, Mohammad Javad; Roostaei, Aida; Jabbari, Fatemeh; Fazeli, Davoud								Challenge Under Pressure Contextual Interference or Differential Learning								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT											10.1080/02701367.2026.2686249				2026	This study compared the effects of blocked practice, random practice (contextual interference), and differential learning on acquisition, retention, and performance under psychological pressure of a basketball jump shot in novice performers. Forty-eight right-handed adolescents with no prior basketball experience were randomly assigned to one of four groups: Blocked, Random, Differential, or Control (n = 12 each). After a pretest (18 trials at 5 m), participants completed three days of practice. Blocked practice involved constant distances across days (4, 5, or 6 m), random practice varied distances trial-to-trial without consecutive repetitions, and differential learning used a fixed 5 m distance with substantial trial-to-trial variations in movement execution. Retention was tested three days later (18 trials at 5 m), followed immediately by a pressure phase with identical trials under induced anxiety. During acquisition, blocked practice produced superior accuracy compared to random and differential conditions. In retention, both Random and Differential groups outperformed the Control group, while only the Differential group showed a significant advantage over Blocked practice. Under pressure conditions, the Differential group outperformed both Blocked and Control groups, whereas the Random group did not differ significantly from the other groups. The findings are interpreted within a dynamical systems perspective, highlighting the role of optimal stochastic fluctuations in promoting implicit motor processes and self-organization, thereby enhancing skill robustness in high-stakes competitive contexts.		[Taghizadeh, Hossein; Parvizi, Mohammad Javad; Roostaei, Aida; Jabbari, Fatemeh; Fazeli, Davoud] Shiraz Univ, Shiraz, Iran; [Fazeli, Davoud] Shiraz Univ, Fac Educ & Psychol, Dept Sport Sci, Room 523,Eram Sq,Daneshju Ave, Shiraz, Fars, Iran								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001790973800001	35	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Baghurst, Timothy; Quick, Simon								Analysis of coach and athletic director turnover in the Florida school system								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261457430				2026	This study examined turnover among athletic directors, assistant athletic directors, head coaches, and assistant coaches in Florida's middle and high schools over a three-year period. Population-level administrative data were analyzed to determine changes in turnover rates by position and sport. The findings revealed a rapid and significant increase in turnover across all personnel groups, with rates exceeding half of all positions by the end of the study period. Notably, football and baseball recorded the highest turnover and the greatest proportional growth, indicating particular instability in these sports. The upward trend in departures suggests a growing strain on the school sport workforce, which has implications for program continuity, administrative efficiency, and the developmental experiences of student-athletes. The results call for coordinated policy responses that address compensation, training and education, workload demands, and organizational support to enhance workforce stability and sustain the educational mission of school-based athletics.		[Baghurst, Timothy] Florida State Univ, Coll Educ Hlth & Human Sci, Ctr Athlet Coaching, Tallahassee, FL 32306 USA; [Quick, Simon] Univ Essex, Sch Sport Rehabil & Exercise Sci, Colchester, England; [Baghurst, Timothy] Florida State Univ, Coll Educ Hlth & Human Sci, Ctr Athlet Coaching, Tallahassee, FL 32306 USA								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001791452800001	28	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Junior, Frederico Camarotti; Santos, Wlaldemir Roberto Dos; Cordeiro Feitosa, Rubem; Costa, Marlene Salvina Fernandes da; Henrique Demarco Marcolino da Silva, Jean; Karollynne Soares Silva, Suellen; Paes, Pedro Pinheiro								Acute Effects of Taurine Supplementation on Energy Metabolism and Aerobic Capacity in Physically Active Young Adults								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT											10.1080/02701367.2026.2671781				2026	Taurine (TAU) is a conditionally essential amino acid whose consumption has recently increased, particularly among young people, through supplements and energy drinks. It has potential beneficial effects on physical performance; however, scientific evidence remains limited. To evaluate the effects of acute ingestion of 1 g of TAU on metabolic and aerobic capacity in physically active young adults. This experimental, randomized, triple-blind, cross-over study included 16 volunteers (11 women and 5 men). Data were collected during a progressive cardiopulmonary exercise test (CPET) at the Ergoespirometry Laboratory of the Department of Physical Education, Federal University of Pernambuco (DEF-UFPE). After familiarization with the test, participants completed two CPETs, 1 hour after ingesting either TAU or placebo (PLA) capsules, with a 7-day washout period between sessions. A significance level of 5% (p < .05) was adopted for all analyses. No significant differences were observed between the TAU and PLA conditions in the main aerobic capacity variables, including peak oxygen consumption (p = .160), time to exhaustion (p = .361), and respiratory compensation point (p = .166), and in lipid metabolism variables (duration-p = .559 and peak-p = 1.000) and glycolytic metabolism (duration-p = .904 and peak-p = .383). Acute intake of 1 g of TAU did not significantly alter aerobic capacity and energy metabolism in physically active young adults. Future research should consider other dosages and types of activities, different levels of physical fitness, and exercise durations.		[Junior, Frederico Camarotti; Cordeiro Feitosa, Rubem; Henrique Demarco Marcolino da Silva, Jean; Karollynne Soares Silva, Suellen; Paes, Pedro Pinheiro] Univ Fed Pernambuco, Pernambuco, Brazil; [Santos, Wlaldemir Roberto Dos; Costa, Marlene Salvina Fernandes da] Univ Pernambuco, Pernambuco, Brazil; [Junior, Frederico Camarotti] Univ Fed Pernambuco, Dept Phys Educ, 1235 Prof Moraes Rego Ave, BR-50740540 Recife, PE, Brazil								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001790923200001	38	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Harenberg, Sebastian; MacLeod, Chaslynn; Worley, Justin T.; McGuire, Cailie S.; Nieto, Margaret								The Relationship Between Positional Competition and Social Identity in Canadian University Student-Athletes								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT											10.1080/02701367.2026.2661308				2026	Competition for playing time (i.e. positional competition) is a commonly occurring phenomenon on interdependent sport teams. Yet the relationship between positional competition and other group dynamics in sports teams has been underexplored. One such group dynamic is social identity, which has been theoretically but not empirically linked to positional competition. The primary purpose of this study was to explore whether positional competition predicted social identity. A secondary purpose was to evaluate whether this prediction was moderated by starting status. A sample of 181 Canadian university student-athletes completed measures of positional competition and social identity. Positional competition dimensions predicted between 22% and 36% of the variance of social identity dimensions. The positional competition dimension pushed by teammates emerged as the only significant predictor of all three dimensions of social identity. The dimensions of coach recognition, self-awareness, and pushing teammates also emerged as significant positive predictors of ingroup affect. Moderation analysis revealed that, for nonstarters only, push by teammates positively predicted ingroup ties, and effort to improve positively predicted cognitive centrality. For starters only, coach recognition positively predicted ingroup ties and affect. These findings provide empirical support for the theoretical connection between positional competition and social identity. Dimensions focused on task-related perceptions of positional competition showed the most consistent positive associations with social identity, although the pattern between starters and nonstarters warrants further attention. The findings deepen our theoretical and practical understanding of how competition for playing time and social identity are linked, while highlighting future research avenues specific to status-based influences.		[Harenberg, Sebastian; MacLeod, Chaslynn; Nieto, Margaret] St Francis Xavier Univ, 42 West St, Antigonish, NS B0H 1X0, Canada; [Worley, Justin T.] Ohio State Univ, Wexner Med Ctr, Coumbus, OH USA; [McGuire, Cailie S.] Univ British Columbia, Vancouver, BC, Canada; [Harenberg, Sebastian] St Francis Xavier Univ, 42 West St, Antigonish, NS B0H 1X0, Canada								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001790585900001	33	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Fernandez-Javega, Gonzalo; Ramirez-Campillo, Rodrigo; Moya-Ramon, Manuel; Pena-Gonzalez, Ivan								Sprint Mechanical Adaptations to Small-Sided Games According to Football Players' Biological Age								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT											10.1080/02701367.2026.2665726				2026	To analyze the effects of 8-weeks of small-sided games (SSGs) training on the sprint force-velocity profile of youth football players, with special focus on potential baseline differences and training responses according to players' biological maturity status. Male football players (age: 13.9 +/- 0.8years) were allocated to an experimental group (n = 49) or a control group (n = 30). The experimental group performed two SSGs sessions per week, integrated into regular team training, with progressive overload (e.g. intensity). Participants completed a maximal effort 30m linear sprint, from which sprint force-velocity variables were assessed, including theoretical maximal force (F-0), maximal velocity (V-0), maximal power (P-max), maximal ratio of force application (RFmax), rate of decrease in force ratio (DRF), and maximal sprint velocity (V-max). Players were stratified according to the predicted years from/to their peak height velocity (PHV): pre-PHV experimental (n=21), pre-PHV control (n = 15), post-PHV experimental (n = 28), and post-PHV control (n=15). A repeated measures ANOVA was performed to show group baseline differences as well as time and interaction effects. Post-PHV players displayed higher baseline values in all anthropometric (body mass, height) and sprint force-velocity variables compared with pre-PHV peers (p < .050). The F-0, V-0, P-max, and V-max improved after intervention compared to controls, independent from players PHV (no time & times;group interactions). Youth football players with advanced maturity status exhibited higher values in the sprint force-velocity variables compared to their peers with delayed maturity status before the intervention. However, the SSGs training program induced similar force-velocity profile gains for both maturity groups.		[Fernandez-Javega, Gonzalo; Moya-Ramon, Manuel; Pena-Gonzalez, Ivan] Miguel Hernandez Univ Elche, Elche, Spain; [Ramirez-Campillo, Rodrigo] Univ Andres Bello, Santiago, Chile; [Ramirez-Campillo, Rodrigo] Univ Tarapaca, Arica, Chile; [Ramirez-Campillo, Rodrigo] Univ Los Lagos, Osorno, Chile; [Fernandez-Javega, Gonzalo] Miguel Hernandez Univ, Sport Res Ctr, Dept Sport Sci, Avda Univ S-N, Elche 03202, Spain								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001790940300001	44	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Delvaux, Francois; Schwartz, Cedric; Kaux, Jean-Francois; Croisier, Jean-Louis								Injury prevention in football: Coaches' practices, perceived expertise, and influencing factors								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261457556				2026	The purposes of the study were to identify the key components of injury prevention exercise programmes (IPEPs) used by football coaches during training sessions, to explore the association between personal characteristics and IPEPs component use, and to examine coaches' self-perceived competence in injury prevention. Football coaches from the French-speaking region of Belgium were invited to participate in a cross-sectional online survey. They were asked to report the components of the IPEPs they used in their training routines. Additionally, they were invited to self-assess their perceived level of expertise in injury prevention and to suggest potential avenues for improving this expertise. A total of 356 coaches fully completed the questionnaire. Among the injury prevention exercises used at least once a week, aerobic warm-ups were the most commonly used (96%), followed by stretching (74%), balance/agility exercises (66%), running/plyometrics (65%), core stability exercises (51%), and lower limb muscle strengthening (46%). Chi-squared tests indicated that higher levels of coach education and higher competitive levels of the teams coached were associated with a greater use of preventive exercises. More specifically, only 21% of respondents reported using the FIFA 11 + programme. A large majority (77%) of coaches reported feeling insufficiently qualified in the area of injury prevention. In conclusion, the core components of IPEPs used in Belgian football clubs were identified and their use appears to be primarily associated with the coaches' level of education. Coaches indicated that they perceived themselves as insufficiently qualified with regard to injury prevention.		[Delvaux, Francois; Schwartz, Cedric; Kaux, Jean-Francois; Croisier, Jean-Louis] Univ Liege, Dept Phys Act & Rehabil Sci, Liege, Belgium; [Delvaux, Francois; Kaux, Jean-Francois; Croisier, Jean-Louis] Univ Liege, FIFA Med Ctr Excellence, FIMS Sports Med Ctr, Sports,Francophone Olymp Sports Med Res Network, Liege, Belgium; [Delvaux, Francois] Univ & CHU Liege, ISEPK B21, ISEPK B21 Allee Sports 4, B-4000 Liege, Belgium								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001789611900001	40	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Hammami, Raouf; Selmi, Walid; Negra, Yassine; Sammoud, Senda; Kassis, Oussema; Nobari, Hadi								Impact of integrated decision-making and change-of-direction speed training on reaction time and physical fitness in highly-trained pubertal tennis players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261447827				2026	This study examined the short-term effects of a 6-week Agility Training (AT) program involved combined decision-making and change-of-direction on physical fitness and simple reaction time in highly trained pubertal tennis players. Twenty-eight highly-trained pubertal tennis players were randomly assigned to an AT (n = 15) or an active control group (CG) (n = 13). The CG continued their standard tennis training, while the AT group replaced some tennis drills with agility exercises twice per week. Pre- and post-training simple reaction time, 5-m sprint speed, CoD speed, horizontal single right-leg hop-test for distance, single left-leg hop-test, and countermovement jump tests were assessed. Results indicated significant and large between-group differences at posttest in all physical fitness and simple reaction time measures (d = 0.98 to 1.18, p < 0.05). The within group pre-to-post analysis indicated significant and moderate to large improvements in all fitness measures in the AT group (d = 0.63 to 0.86, all p < 0.05). However, the CG showed small-tomoderate pre-to-post change in all fitness measures (d = 0.04 to 0.52,p > 0.05), despite these changes being statistically non-significant. To summarize, a short training program including agility tasks stands up to be more effective in improving measures of physical fitness and simple reaction time in highly-trained pubertal tennis players compared to regular tennis training.		[Hammami, Raouf; Selmi, Walid; Negra, Yassine; Kassis, Oussema] Univ Manouba, Higher Inst Sport & Phys Educ Ksar Said, Univ Campus, Manouba 2010, Tunisia; [Hammami, Raouf] Natl Ctr Med & Sci Sports CNMSS, Tunisian Res Lab Sports Performance Optimizat, Tunis, Tunisia; [Selmi, Walid; Negra, Yassine; Sammoud, Senda] Univ Manouba, Res Lab LR23JS01 Sport Performance Hlth & Soc, Tunis, Tunisia; [Selmi, Walid; Negra, Yassine; Sammoud, Senda] Univ Manouba, Higher Inst Sport & Phys Educ Ksar Said, Tunis, Tunisia; [Nobari, Hadi] Univ Politecn Madrid, Fac Phys Act & Sport Sci INEF, Dept Hlth & Human Performance, LFE Res Grp, Madrid, Spain; [Hammami, Raouf] Univ Manouba, Higher Inst Sport & Phys Educ Ksar Said, Univ Campus, Manouba 2010, Tunisia; [Hammami, Raouf] Natl Ctr Med & Sci Sports CNMSS, Tunisian Res Lab Sports Performance Optimizat, Tunis, Tunisia								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001787973500001	35	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Jara-Pazmino, E. Su; Vallejo, Sebastian; Pack, Simon M.; Yeh, Tsu-Lin; Saona, Martin								The role of social media management in sponsorship acquisition among Ecuadorian professional soccer teams								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP											10.1108/IJSMS-10-2025-0523				2026	Purpose This study seeks to explore the strategic use of social media by soccer teams in Ecuador with the explicit aim of securing and sustaining sponsorship relationships.Design/methodology/approach Guided by relationship marketing theory, which highlights the importance of trust, commitment, and engagement in building long-term relationships (Morgan and Hunt, 1994), this qualitative study employed in-depth, semi-structured interviews with Marketing Directors from professional soccer clubs in the top league in Ecuador.Findings The study found that Ecuadorian soccer clubs increasingly use social media, especially WhatsApp, TikTok and Instagram, to engage fans, attract sponsors and measure return on investment. Four key themes emerged: uneven digital ecosystem development, data-driven sponsorship valuation, authentic content alignment with brand values, and proactive trust and crisis management in sponsor relations.Research limitations/implications This study also contains several limitations. The analysis was based on qualitative interviews with a limited number of participants, and detailed quantitative and longitudinal data were not available. As an exploratory study, its findings are context-specific and should not be generalized across all Latin American markets.Practical implications The findings aim to provide best practices for leveraging social media to attract and retain sponsors. These insights will inform best practices for other clubs and leagues within Ecuador and the broader Latin American region.Originality/value This study reveals how Ecuador's deep soccer culture and social context shape digital strategies, with clubs using Instagram, TikTok and WhatsApp to attract and retain sponsors.		[Jara-Pazmino, E. Su; Yeh, Tsu-Lin] Univ West Georgia, Carrollton, GA 30118 USA; [Jara-Pazmino, E. Su] Univ San Francisco Quito, Colegio Adm Empresas, Quito, Ecuador; [Vallejo, Sebastian; Saona, Martin] Univ San Francisco de Quito, Colegio Hosp Arte Culinario & Turismo CHAT, Quito, Ecuador; [Pack, Simon M.] St Johns Univ, Div Sport Management, New York, NY USA; [Jara-Pazmino, E. Su] Univ West Georgia, Carrollton, GA 30118 USA; [Jara-Pazmino, E. Su] Univ San Francisco Quito, Colegio Adm Empresas, Quito, Ecuador								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001786648400001	34	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Csato, Laszlo; Petroczy, Dora Greta								Are Penalty Shootouts Better Than a Coin Toss? Evidence From International Club Football in Europe								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS											10.1177/15270025261456672				2026	Penalty shootouts play a crucial role in the knockout stage of major football tournaments. Their importance has substantially increased from the 2021/22 season, when the Union of European Football Associations (UEFA) scrapped the away goals rule. Our paper examines whether the outcome of a penalty shootout can be predicted in UEFA club competitions. Based on all shootouts between 2000 and 2025, no evidence is found for the effect of the kicking order, the field of the match, or psychological momentum. In contrast to previous results, we do not detect any relationship between shootout success and relative team strength, quantified by differences in Elo ratings and the implied winning probability. Thus, the hypothesis that penalty shootouts are close to a coin toss in international competitions for European football clubs cannot be rejected.		[Csato, Laszlo] Hungarian Res Network HUN REN, Inst Comp Sci & Control SZTAK, Lab Engn & Management Intelligence, Res Grp Operat Res & Dec Syst, Budapest, Hungary; [Csato, Laszlo] Corvinus Univ Budapest BCE, Inst Operat & Dec Sci, Dept Operat Res & Actuarial Sci, Budapest, Hungary; [Petroczy, Dora Greta] Budapest Metropolitan Univ, Budapest, Hungary; [Csato, Laszlo] Hungarian Res Network HUN REN, Inst Comp Sci & Control SZTAK, Lab Engn & Management Intelligence, Res Grp Operat Res & Dec Syst, Budapest, Hungary; [Csato, Laszlo] Corvinus Univ Budapest BCE, Inst Operat & Dec Sci, Dept Operat Res & Actuarial Sci, Budapest, Hungary								0							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001786540700001	51	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Legg, Lindsey; Forrester, Steph; Roberts, Jonathan; Shepherd, Jonathan; Mears, Aimee								Exploring women's golf performance, swing biomechanics, and golf equipment: A constraints led approach								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261452450				2026	A constraints led approach, guided by ecological dynamics, has been implemented in golf to identify biomechanical determinants of golf performance, guide coaching strategies, and to inform equipment design. Previous research has examined the interaction between individual, environmental, and task constraints on the golf swing relative to men golfers. When introducing women golfers to this system, there are inherent changes in individual constraints which should elicit adaptations to environmental, and task constraints. The purpose of this study was to investigate how the role of gender as an individual task constraint influences the environment and task constraints in women's golf performance. A deductive thematic analysis guided by a constraints led approach was conducted from semi-structured interviews with six golfers and nine golf coaches. Intentions, golfer biomechanics, and physical attributes were individual constraints that varied greatly from men golfers and played an influential role in shaping the environment and task constraints. Golfers, and coaches advocated for coaching strategies and golf equipment to be tailored to match the individual constraints of each golfer to afford them the best performance outcome. Yet, these interviews highlight that men-dominated constructs still exist, and more consideration is warranted to afford women better opportunities to be successful.		[Legg, Lindsey; Forrester, Steph; Roberts, Jonathan; Mears, Aimee] Loughborough Univ, Sports Technol Inst, Wolfson Sch Mech Elect & Mfg Engn, Loughborough, England; [Shepherd, Jonathan] PING Golf, PING Europe, Gainsborough, England; [Mears, Aimee] Loughborough Univ, 1 Oakwood Dr, Loughborough LE11 3QF, England								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001784891900001	55	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Daniel, Marsa								"You've got to be really careful": Concerns from coaches on applying female athlete physiology education in sport								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261446927				2026	Female athletes are increasingly seeking knowledge and support from coaches regarding the menstrual cycle as it relates to health and performance in sport. Yet few coaches feel equipped to provide this support due to low levels of knowledge about female-specific physiology, communication barriers, and lack of access to female-specific health education. This study qualitatively examines how male and female coaches of female athletes aged 15 + responded to an online education series on supporting female athlete health and performance. Coaches were encouraged to actively apply their learning in their coaching by sharing supplemental handouts and discussing menstrual health with athletes. Coaches then shared their concerns and experiences through surveys (n = 21) and interviews (n = 5). Analysis revealed that: (1) coaches were surprised to learn that menstrual health and symptom management is a significant concern for female athletes, (2) coaches had concerns that discussing menstrual health might violate social norms, gender roles, and/or exceed the scope of their leadership responsibilities, and (3) coaches desire support in translating menstrual health learning into their work with female athletes. Additionally, female coaches (i.e., those with lived experience with the menstrual cycle) were more likely to implement menstrual health awareness in their coaching, as they were able to relate to female athletes' concerns and experiences with the menstrual cycle in sport. This study concluded that coaches' comfort in discussing menstrual health with athletes can be developed and that both male and female coaches need translational support to navigate the social stigma associated with the menstrual cycle.		[Daniel, Marsa] Univ Washington, Coll Educ, Ctr Leadership Athlet, Seattle, WA 98195 USA; [Daniel, Marsa] Univ Washington, Coll Educ, Ctr Leadership Athlet, Seattle, WA 98195 USA								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001784873000001	91	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Nevill, Alan M.; Smith, Julian; Cloak, Ross								How have body size, age, and the use of substitutes evolved in English professional football between the 6 seasons 1973-4, 1983-4, 1993-4 to 2023-4?								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261450306				2026	Anecdotal evidence suggests that English professional football has changed substantially over the 6 seasons 1973-4, 1983-4, 1993-4 to 2023-4. The investment by satellite television has increased the financial rewards for success, leading to remarkable changes in the players' fitness, body shape, age and risk of injury. The current aims of the study were to identify some of these changes such as the frequency of use of substitutes, players' height, body mass, the reciprocal Ponderal index and age over the 6 seasons using data obtained from football year books. Results confirm that players continue to become taller and more linear identified using the reciprocal Ponderal index, a trend observed with goalkeepers and defenders rather than midfielders and attackers. The body mass of players has also declined over the past three decades. There has been a steady increase in the use of substitutes almost entirely due to frequent changes to the substitution rule, a trend where substitutes appear to be replacing defenders rather than midfielders or attackers. Successful teams also use less substitutes, preferring to play their first-choice players, compared with less successful teams. Players from successful teams remain consistently younger than players from less successful teams, a testament to the value of, and investment in, youth academies. In conclusion, top-flight teams continue to recruit taller and less heavy (ectomorphic) players, a trend that was only observed by successful teams in 2003 (the year of Arsenal's Invincibles) but is now recognised by all Premier League teams.		[Nevill, Alan M.; Smith, Julian; Cloak, Ross] Univ Wolverhampton, Fac Educ Hlth & Wellbeing, Walsall Campus,Gorway Rd, Walsall WS1 3BD, England; [Nevill, Alan M.] Univ Wolverhampton, Fac Educ Hlth & Wellbeing, Walsall Campus,Gorway Rd, Walsall WS1 3BD, England								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001782517600001	26	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Mendes, Diogo; Travassos, Bruno; Martinho, Diogo V.; Gouveia, Elvio R.; Barrera-Diaz, Joel; Campos, Pedro; Sarmento, Hugo								From potential to performance: Coaching practices in futsal talent development								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261452433				2026	This study offers a futsal-specific account of how elite Portuguese coaches conceptualize and operationalize talent identification and development. Adopting an ecological dynamics perspective, we conducted semi-structured interviews with seven elite male coaches (Liga Placard and national teams) and analysed transcripts thematically (NVivo 14). Findings are organised across three domains. (1) Athlete constraints: coaches framed physical capacities as non-limiting baselines, emphasising instead psychological robustness (e.g., resilience, intrinsic motivation, emotional regulation) and technical-tactical adaptability (e.g., game intelligence, rapid decision-making under pressure) as key markers of potential. (2) Task constraints: coaches prioritised representative learning design (e.g., small-sided games), adaptive task complexity, and the developmental value unstructured play alongside formal practice (3) Environmental constraints: family support, peer interactions, and school context were identified as critical factors shaping long-term development. Coaches conceptualise talent in futsal as an emergent property arising from the continuous interaction between athlete, task, and environment, shaped by the sport's specific demands. This study advances talent identification and development in futsal by grounding ecological theory in the lived expertise of coaches within one of the world's most successful futsal systems.		[Mendes, Diogo; Martinho, Diogo V.; Barrera-Diaz, Joel; Sarmento, Hugo] Univ Coimbra, Fac Ciencias Desporto & Educ Fis, CIPER, Coimbra, Portugal; [Mendes, Diogo; Martinho, Diogo V.; Barrera-Diaz, Joel; Sarmento, Hugo] Univ Lisbon, Fac Motricidade Humana, CIPER, Cruz Quebrada Dafundo, Portugal; [Travassos, Bruno] Univ Beira Interior, Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev CIDESD, Dept Sport Sci, Covilha, Portugal; [Travassos, Bruno] Portuguese Football Federat, Portugal Football Sch, Lisbon, Portugal; [Gouveia, Elvio R.] Interact Technol Inst, Lab Robot & Engn Syst, Funchal, Portugal; [Gouveia, Elvio R.] Univ Madeira, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Funchal, Portugal; [Barrera-Diaz, Joel] INAF, Inst Nacl Futbol Deporte & Actividad Fis, Santiago, Chile; [Campos, Pedro] Univ Madeira, Dept Informat Engn & Interact Media Design, Funchal, Portugal; [Campos, Pedro] WoWSyst Informat Lda, Funchal, Portugal; [Martinho, Diogo V.] Univ Coimbra, Pavilhao 3, P-3040248 Coimbra, Portugal								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001781721000001	35	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Amaro, Catarina M.; Mendes, Rui; Castro, Maria Antonio; Rice, Hannah; Gomes, Beatriz B.								Phase-specific force-time adaptations in basketball jump shots under environmental constraints								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261451122				2026	This study examined whether task-related and environmental constraints influence the vertical ground reaction force (vGRF) waveform during the basketball jump shot, with a focus on phase-specific adaptations across shooting positions. Eighteen senior basketball players performed jump shots from three shooting positions (45 degrees right, middle, 45 degrees left) under three conditions: baseline, simulated defensive opposition, and simulated gym audience noise. vGRF signals were recorded using a force platform and time-normalized to 0-100% of the movement cycle. One-dimensional Statistical Parametric Mapping (SPM) was applied using a hierarchical region-of-interest (ROI) approach, focusing on the unweighting, braking, and propulsive phases. Group-level effects were tested using a two-way SPM{F} ANOVA (Constraint & times; Position). Exploratory intra-individual SPM{t} analyses were conducted to examine athlete-specific adaptations. No significant main effects of constraint or position, and no constraint & times; position interactions were observed at the group level in any ROI (alpha = 0.05). Exploratory intra-individual analyses revealed heterogeneous, athlete-specific adaptations to external constraints and shooting position, predominantly during the braking and propulsive phases, with substantial variability in the timing and presence of significant clusters across athletes.The results indicate that experienced basketball players preserve a stable force-time organization during the jump shot despite environmental and task-related constraints. While group-level mechanical patterns remain invariant, individual athletes may exhibit phase-specific adaptations that do not generalize across the population. These findings underscore the importance of hierarchical and individualized analytical approaches for understanding skilled performance and support the use of ROI-based SPM for the biomechanical analysis of complex movement tasks.		[Amaro, Catarina M.; Gomes, Beatriz B.] Univ Coimbra, Fac Sports Sci & Phys Educ, CIPER, P-3040248 Coimbra, Portugal; [Amaro, Catarina M.; Castro, Maria Antonio; Gomes, Beatriz B.] Univ Coimbra, CEMMPRE Ctr Mech Engn Mat & Proc, Coimbra, Portugal; [Mendes, Rui] Coimbra Polytech Inst, Super Sch Educ, Coimbra, Portugal; [Mendes, Rui] SPRINT Sport Phys Act & Hlth Res & Innovat Ctr, Rio Maior, Portugal; [Castro, Maria Antonio] CDRSP Polytech Univ Leiria, Sch Hlth Sci, CiTechCare, Leiria, Portugal; [Rice, Hannah] Norwegian Sch Sport Sci, Dept Phys Performance, Oslo, Norway; [Amaro, Catarina M.] Univ Coimbra, Fac Sports Sci & Phys Educ, CIPER, P-3040248 Coimbra, Portugal								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001781475100001	39	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Gonzalez Soffner, Carlos R.; Leonelli, Manuele								An analysis of factors impacting team strengths in the Australian football league using time-variant Bradley-Terry models								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261438697				2026	Australian Rules Football is a field invasion game where two teams compete to score the most points. While complex machine learning models can predict match outcomes post-game, their lack of interpretability limits understanding of the factors influencing team performance. Using data from the male Australian Football League (2015-2023), we estimate team strengths and their determinants by fitting flexible Bradley-Terry models. We identify teams significantly stronger or weaker than average, with stronger teams placing higher in the previous season's ladder and leading in Forward 50 activity, goal shots, and scoring. Playing at home consistently creates an advantage, regardless of strength. When used for forward prediction, models incorporating team-specific, time-variant features correctly anticipate up to 71.5% of outcomes. Our approach thus enables interpretable strength estimation and competitive forecasting, supporting data-driven strategies and training.		[Gonzalez Soffner, Carlos R.; Leonelli, Manuele] IE Univ, Sch Sci & Technol, Madrid, Spain; [Leonelli, Manuele] IE Univ, Sch Sci & Technol, Madrid, Spain								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001782524700001	25	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Postma, Tania; Rugbeer, Nivash; Pienaar, Licinda; MacMillan, Candice								Identification of physical attributes and injury risk in South African female cricketers								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261451713				2026	There is a global need, including in South Africa, to understand cricket-related injuries among female players better. Hence, this study investigated the relationships between anthropometric characteristics, physical fitness, kinetic factors, and in-season injury occurrence. An observational longitudinal cohort design was employed, involving 31 adult elite female cricketers from four South African franchises. Pre-season assessments included a baseline questionnaire and a standardised testing protocol. These measures were subsequently correlated with injury incidence, which was monitored weekly throughout the competitive season from October 2024 to March 2025. The in-season injury incidence was 41.90%. Multivariable modified Poisson linear regression analysis suggested that injuries were associated with higher medicine ball power throw test values, whereas shorter broad jump distances and slower 20 m sprint time are independently associated with lower injury risk. These findings suggest a performance-injury trade-off, where higher physical outputs may increase mechanical loading and injury susceptibility in the absence of appropriate load management, recovery strategies, and neuromuscular control. Accordingly, these variables should be used for athlete monitoring and profiling rather than for selection or deselection purposes. While this study has limitations, the findings contribute to the development of pre-season screening approaches that consider the balance between performance and injury risk. Further research is required to confirm these relationships and inform evidence-based injury prevention strategies.		[Postma, Tania; Rugbeer, Nivash; Pienaar, Licinda; MacMillan, Candice] Univ Pretoria, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Physiol, Pretoria, South Africa; [Postma, Tania] Univ Pretoria, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Physiol, Div Sport Sci & Biokinet, South St, ZA-0083 Pretoria, South Africa; [Postma, Tania] South St, ZA-0083 Pretoria, South Africa								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001781481300001	70	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Kim, Kyungyeol								The effects of vicarious coach incivility on student-athlete motivation and well-being								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261455131				2026	Drawing on incivility research and self-determination theory, this study examines how vicarious coach incivility (i.e., witnessing a coach's disrespectful behavior toward a teammate) affects student-athlete motivation and both hedonic and eudaimonic well-being. Using an experimental vignette design, data were collected from 210 collegiate student-athletes in South Korea. Results showed that vicarious coach incivility had significant negative effects on both hedonic and eudaimonic well-being. Vicarious coach incivility was positively associated with amotivation and controlled forms of motivation (introjected and external regulation), and negatively associated with autonomous forms of motivation (intrinsic, integrated, and identified regulation). Intrinsic motivation and integrated regulation were positively related to both hedonic and eudaimonic well-being, whereas amotivation and external regulation were associated with poorer well-being outcomes. Identified and introjected regulation did not significantly predict either dimension of well-being. The present study extends existing research on coach behavior by demonstrating that indirect exposure to coach incivility undermines student-athlete well-being through differentiated motivational pathways.		[Kim, Kyungyeol] Kongju Natl Univ, Dept Sport Sci, Gongju, South Korea; [Kim, Kyungyeol] Kongju Natl Univ, Dept Sport Sci, Gongju, South Korea								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001781489100001	37	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Morris, Stephanie J.; Oliver, Jon L.; Pedley, Jason S.; Radnor, John M.; Hill, Mark; Haff, G. Gregory; Lloyd, Rhodri S.								Embedding Growth and Maturation Analyses Into the Talent Development Pathways of Youth Weightlifters								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				48	3			300	311		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000884			JUN 2026	2026	Growth and maturation have a significant influence on naturally occurring changes in performance, training-induced adaptations, injury risk, and psychosocial development and should, therefore, be important considerations within talent identification and development pathways for young weightlifters. Key stakeholders in youth weightlifting require an understanding of growth and maturation to support the long-term development of athletes and ensure that future potential is considered rather than making judgments based on enhanced physical qualities synonymous with advanced stages of maturation. This article considers methods of assessing biological maturation and growth rates and then explores how weightlifting performance can be influenced by growth and maturation. The article is accompanied by an Excel template to estimate maturity status and timing. Finally, recommendations are offered to help practitioners embed growth and maturation analysis within youth weightlifting pathways to enhance performance, reduce injury risk, and create optimal training and competition environments.		[Morris, Stephanie J.; Oliver, Jon L.; Pedley, Jason S.; Radnor, John M.; Lloyd, Rhodri S.] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Youth Phys Dev Ctr, Cardiff Sch Sport & Hlth Sci, Cardiff, Wales; [Oliver, Jon L.; Lloyd, Rhodri S.] AUT Univ, Sport Performance Res Inst New Zealand SPRINZ, Auckland, New Zealand; [Hill, Mark] British Weightlifting, Leeds, England; [Haff, G. Gregory] Edith Cowan Univ, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, Strength & Power Res Grp, Joondalup, WA, Australia; [Haff, G. Gregory] Univ Salford, Directorate Psychol & Sport, Salford, England; [Lloyd, Rhodri S.] Waikato Inst Technol, Ctr Sport Sci & Human Performance, Hamilton, New Zealand; [Morris, Stephanie J.] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Youth Phys Dev Ctr, Cardiff Sch Sport & Hlth Sci, Cardiff, Wales								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001782515100001	93	Article; Article		
J	Ribeiro, Nuno; Martinho, Diogo V.; Monasterio, Xabier; Gonzalo-Skok, Oliver; Loureiro, Nuno; Ferreira, Ruben; Araujo, Joao Pedro; Tavares, Francisco								From Theory to Practice: The Role of Growth, Maturation, and Workload in Injury Risk Mitigation for Young Male Soccer Players								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				48	3			312	327		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000943			JUN 2026	2026	The development of young male soccer players entails intricate interactions among growth, maturation, and workload, which significantly impact injury risk. Peak height velocity constitutes a critical phase during which players undergo rapid physical changes, potentially increasing their susceptibility to injury. Given the variability in biological maturation, practitioners must implement individualized strategies to manage workloads and mitigate the risk of injury. This review synthesizes the current evidence on growth and maturation monitoring, offering a framework for integrating these insights into practical training interventions. It emphasizes the importance of longitudinal assessments, tailored workload management, and communication strategies among coaches, medical staff, and players. Practical applications include systematic tracking of growth metrics, bio-banding, modifying workloads based on maturity status, and implementing recovery protocols for high-risk individuals. These strategies enable practitioners to identify players undergoing accelerated growth and adjust training accordingly to reduce injury risk while optimizing long-term development. By bridging the gap between theoretical knowledge and applied practice, this review provides actionable recommendations to support young athletes throughout their developmental journey, ensuring a balance between performance enhancement and injury mitigation.		[Ribeiro, Nuno] Lusofona Univ, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Lisbon, Portugal; [Ribeiro, Nuno; Loureiro, Nuno; Ferreira, Ruben; Araujo, Joao Pedro; Tavares, Francisco] Sporting Clube Portugal, Med & Performance Dept, Lisbon, Portugal; [Martinho, Diogo V.] Univ Coimbra, Fac Sport Sci & Phys Educ, Res Unity Sport & Phys Act CIDAF, UID DTP 04213 2020, Coimbra, Portugal; [Monasterio, Xabier] Athlet Club, Med Serv, Lezama, Spain; [Monasterio, Xabier] Univ Basque Country, UPV EHU, Fac Med & Nursing, Dept Physiol, Leioa, Spain; [Gonzalo-Skok, Oliver] Univ Loyola Andalucia, Dept Commun & Educ, Seville, Spain; [Gonzalo-Skok, Oliver] Univ Loyola Andalucia, Dept Commun & Educ, Seville, Spain								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001782515100006	100	Article; Article		
J	Kennedy, Sarah G.; Lubans, David R.; Smith, Jordan J.; Verdonschot, Angeliek; Lloyd, Rhodri S.								Development of a Resistance Training Curriculum for School-Based Implementation: Adaptation of the Athletic Motor Skill Competencies Curriculum								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				48	3			264	280		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000952			JUN 2026	2026	Resistance training is a key training modality that effectively enhances health, fitness, and performance in diverse populations, including youth. Resistance training involves various resistive loads and is a versatile method of conditioning that can be tailored to meet diverse individual needs and goals. This article aims to provide an overview of the implementation of resistance training programs in schools, emphasizing their importance for enhancing youth health, fitness, and sports performance. An essential facilitator to the delivery of resistance training programs is providing teachers with the necessary resources and professional development to support program implementation-even in schools with limited equipment. Provided within this manuscript is an insight into a successful school-based resistance training intervention, the Resistance Training for Teens (RT4T) program, which has shown positive outcomes in students' fitness, skill competency, and self-efficacy. A well-structured, adaptable resistance training curriculum, such as the one used in RT4T, can promote long-term engagement in resistance training among youth. The integration of resistance training in school curricula is a means to ensure all youth have access to this essential form of physical activity, contributing to a healthier, more active population.		[Kennedy, Sarah G.] Western Sydney Univ, Sch Hlth Sci, Darug Country, NSW, Australia; [Kennedy, Sarah G.] Western Sydney Univ, Translat Hlth Res Inst, Dharawal Country, NSW, Australia; [Kennedy, Sarah G.; Lubans, David R.; Smith, Jordan J.] Univ Newcastle, Coll Human & Social Futures, Global Sport & Movement Collaborat, Callaghan, NSW, Australia; [Smith, Jordan J.] Hunter Med Res Inst, New Lambton Hts, NSW, Australia; [Verdonschot, Angeliek] Leiden Univ, Inst Educ & Child Studies, Fac Social & Behav Sci, Leiden, Netherlands; [Lloyd, Rhodri S.] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Cardiff Sch Sport & Hlth Sci, Youth Phys Dev Ctr, Cardiff, Wales; [Lloyd, Rhodri S.] AUT Univ, Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand SPRINZ, Auckland, New Zealand; [Lloyd, Rhodri S.] Waikato Inst Technol, Ctr Sport Sci & Human Performance, Hamilton, New Zealand; [Kennedy, Sarah G.] Western Sydney Univ, Sch Hlth Sci, Darug Country, NSW, Australia; [Kennedy, Sarah G.] Western Sydney Univ, Translat Hlth Res Inst, Dharawal Country, NSW, Australia; [Kennedy, Sarah G.] Univ Newcastle, Coll Human & Social Futures, Global Sport & Movement Collaborat, Callaghan, NSW, Australia								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001782515100008	71	Article; Article		
J	Asare, Maxwell Kwabena; Schnitzer, Martin								Image to action: Exploring coaches' perceptions of their reputational influence on athlete creativity								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261453694				2026	Within the realm of sports, coaches and athletes take centre stage as the main actors. The interactions between the coaches and athletes as main actors assume paramount significance due to their impact on the nature and quality of the athletes' sporting development and experience. The close interactions between coach and athlete are the focal point of this research. This study seeks to explore coaches' perceptions of their reputational influence on athlete creativity. We conducted this study with coaches (n = 15) across various sporting disciplines and professional levels to gain a better understanding of their perceived reputational influence on athlete creativity. We employed semi-structured interviews to collect data with the freedom to explore and examine significant responses given by the participants. The findings suggest that coaches understand and acknowledge that their reputation is an essential element in influencing athlete creativity, and that coaches and athletes are locked into a two-person (dyadic) relationship, and its quality is the measure of coaching efficacy. Our study expands the understanding of coaching reputation by highlighting its effects on athlete creativity. It additionally sheds light on how the coach-athlete relationship is influenced by the coach's reputation and how athletes respond in terms of their behaviour and attitude.		[Asare, Maxwell Kwabena] Univ Innsbruck, Fac Business & Management, Innsbruck, Austria; [Asare, Maxwell Kwabena; Schnitzer, Martin] Univ Innsbruck, Dept Sport Sci, Innsbruck, Austria; [Asare, Maxwell Kwabena] Univ Innsbruck, Dept Strateg Management Mkt & Tourism, Innsbruck, Austria								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001780558800001	72	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Zhou, Chaoyu; Teng, Yusong; Xu, Yinan								Adaptive Responses of Cardiorespiratory Fitness and Cardiometabolic Risk Factors to Polarized Versus Other Types of Training Intensity Distribution in Obese Untrained Females								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				25	2			395	404		10.52082/jssm.2026.395			JUN 2026	2026	This study aimed to investigate the effects of 10-week interventions of polarized training (POL), high-intensity interval training (HIIT), and threshold training (THR) on cardiorespiratory fitness (CRF) and cardiometabolic risk factors in untrained, healthy, young obese females. A total of 40 obese, untrained females volunteered to participate in the study and were randomly allocated to four equal groups: POL, HIIT, THR, and a control (CON) group. Training intensity was prescribed relative to ventilatory thresholds (VTs) and categorized into three zones: Zone 1 (Z1; 95% VT1), Zone 2 (Z2; 50% to 95% VT2), and Zone 3 (Z3; 90% VO2max). All the training groups performed similar training loads (66% to 93% heart rate max) and the weekly intensity distribution was 75% Z1 and 25% Z3 for POL, 100% Z3 for HIIT, and 50% Z1 and 50% Z2 for THR. CRF, glycemic and lipid profiles, body composition, and cardiovascular variables were assessed before and after the 10-week intervention. After the intervention, total body mass, fat mass, heart rate, fasting glucose, cholesterol, LDL and triglyceride decreased in all exercised-groups (time effect: p < 0.001). In addition, the VO2max, VT1, VT2, Q(max) and SVmax increased in all exercised-groups (time effect: p < 0.001) following the 10-week intervention period. Moreover, the POL group showed more adaptive responses than the HIIT and THR training modalities for the changes in the CRF, glycemic and lipid profiles, body composition, and HR (interaction effect: p <= 0.002) after the 10-week training. In summary, aerobic training models characterized by different intensity distributions are effective in improving CRF, cardiometabolic risk factors, and body composition. However, compared with HIIT and THR, POL elicited superior adaptations across a broader range of CRF and cardiometabolic variables. Collectively, these findings indicate that polarized volume training represents an effective non-pharmacological strategy for simultaneously enhancing CRF and reducing cardiometabolic risk in young, untrained women with obesity.		[Zhou, Chaoyu; Teng, Yusong; Xu, Yinan] Liaoning Normal Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Dalian 116029, Liaoning, Peoples R China; [Xu, Yinan] Liaoning Normal Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Dalian 116029, Liaoning, Peoples R China								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001757913600001	27	Article; Article		
J	Kim, Young-Joo; Park, Choung-Hwa; Park, Han-Soo; Lim, Yu-Eun								Blood Flow Restriction Training Reduces Hemodynamic Load and Improves Cardiovascular Biomarkers in Runners with Exercise-Induced Hypertension								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				25	2			371	380		10.52082/jssm.2026.371			JUN 2026	2026	Exercise-induced hypertension (EIH) is associated with elevated risks of arrhythmia, coronary artery disease, arterial stiffness, and sudden cardiac death. Blood flow restriction (BFR) training has been proposed as a non-pharmacological intervention. This study aimed to evaluate whether changes in cardiovascular biomarkers accompanied hemodynamic improvements following BFR training in middle-aged runners with EIH. This secondary analysis included 28 male runners with EIH (mean age: 57.4 +/- 6.5 years) from a prior cohort applying the same BFR training protocol. Participants exhibited a maximal systolic blood pressure >210 mmHg during graded exercise testing (GXT) and were assigned to a BFR training group (BFRTg, n = 16) or a control group (non-BFRTg, n = 12). BFR training was performed twice weekly for 20 minutes over 8 weeks. Cardiorespiratory fitness and hemodynamic response during GXT were also assessed. Cardiovascular biomarkers (endothelin-1 [ET-1], high-sensitivity C-reactive protein [hs-CRP], NT-proBNP, and nitric oxide [NO]) were measured pre-and post-intervention. In the BFRTg, ET-1, hs-CRP, and NT-proBNP levels decreased after BFR training, while maximal systolic blood pressure decreased and VO2max increased (all p < .05). Hemodynamic load also improved, as indicated by reductions in resting and maximal rate-pressure product (RPP) and pulse pressure during maximal exercise (all p < .05). BFR training improved the exercise blood pressure response and cardiorespiratory fitness in runners with EIH. The reduction in hemodynamic load, reflected by decreases in RPP and PP, was accompanied by significant reductions in ET-1, hs-CRP, and NT-proBNP.		[Kim, Young-Joo] SungshinWomens Univ, Sch Sports Sci, Seoul, South Korea; [Park, Choung-Hwa] Kyonggi Univ, Grad Sch Alternat Med, Seoul, South Korea; [Park, Han-Soo; Lim, Yu-Eun] Korea Natl Sport Univ, Sports Med Lab, Seoul, South Korea; [Lim, Yu-Eun] Korea Natl Sport Univ, Sports Med Lab, Seoul, South Korea								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001757916700001	46	Article; Article		
J	Flintz, Joschka								When Fans Travel: Determinants and Effects of Away Support in German Professional Football								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				27	5			597	628		10.1177/15270025261438384			JUN 2026	2026	This study examines the determinants of away fan attendance in Germany's top three football divisions over six seasons and assesses its impact on match outcomes. The analysis reveals that, after conditioning on home and away teams, distance and kick-off time are the most important predictors of away fan turnout. Moreover, away support is found to have a statistically significant positive effect on team performance: an additional 500 away fans are associated with a 2.3% to 3.8% increase in the probability of the away team winning the match. These findings suggest that league organizers should consider fan logistics and the potential influence of away fan presence when scheduling fixtures, in order to maintain sporting equity. At the club level, the results underscore the value of fostering fan engagement and indicate that strategies aimed at increasing away attendance may contribute to improved sporting outcomes.		[Flintz, Joschka] Thuenen Inst, Inst Rural Econ, Bundesallee 64, D-38116 Braunschweig, Germany; [Flintz, Joschka] RWI Res Network, Essen, Germany; [Flintz, Joschka] Thuenen Inst, Inst Rural Econ, Bundesallee 64, D-38116 Braunschweig, Germany								0							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001733514200001	35	Article; Article		
J	Lezana, Bruce								Fear of the Draw, Consumption and Mistaken Heuristics: Profit Opportunities in the Football Betting Market								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				27	5			548	596		10.1177/15270025261438385			JUN 2026	2026	This study examines inefficiencies in football betting markets by analyzing the gap between bookmaker odds and empirically estimated probabilities. Using English Premier League data and a combination of Markov processes and ordered logit model, the paper constructs a betting strategy that does not rely on superior predictive power but exploits market mispricing. The strategy consistently yields abnormal returns, particularly for draws and away teams, challenging the Efficient Market Hypothesis (EMH). The analysis reveals potential behavioral biases, like emotions, and reliance on heuristics, which distort market prices. Robustness checks with data from other major European leagues support these findings. The results have broader implications for financial markets, as they highlight how behavioral patterns can create exploitable inefficiencies. We conclude that sports betting thus serves as a simplified, data-rich setting to test theories of market behavior, offering insights into how information, psychology, and pricing may interact in both betting and financial domains.		[Lezana, Bruce] Univ Massachusetts Lowell, Manning Sch Business, 72 Univ Ave, Lowell, MA 01854 USA; [Lezana, Bruce] Univ Massachusetts Lowell, Manning Sch Business, 72 Univ Ave, Lowell, MA 01854 USA								0							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001733027400001	67	Article; Article		
J	Strazicich, Mark C.; Dawson, John W.; Groothuis, Peter A.; Ungureanu, Tiberiu S. V.								A Rising Tide Raises all Boats: The Changing Distribution of Salaries in the NBA Over Time								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				27	5			503	527		10.1177/15270025261436349			JUN 2026	2026	We examine the evolution of salary distribution in the National Basketball Association using a panel of all full-time players. We identify three eras using structural break analysis, with breaks aligned to changes in Collective Bargaining Agreements that occurred at the time of lockouts. Our findings show that real salaries have risen substantially across all income levels but not at the same rate. Analyzing the Lorenz curve and Gini coefficient, we observe a period of increasing inequality during the 1990s, followed by a more equitable salary distribution in the early 2000s, and then a return to rising inequality in recent years.		[Strazicich, Mark C.; Dawson, John W.; Groothuis, Peter A.] Appalachian State Univ, Dept Econ, Boone, NC 28608 USA; [Ungureanu, Tiberiu S. V.] Appalachian State Univ, Dept Management, Boone, NC USA; [Groothuis, Peter A.] Appalachian State Univ, Dept Econ, Boone, NC 28608 USA								0							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001730404800001	41	Article; Article		
J	Wang, Jie; Wang, Mengjuan								The evolution of blocking purpose: From reactive defense to coordinated scoring in women's volleyball across five Olympic games (2008-2024)								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	3			1904	1911		10.1177/17479541261432863			JUN 2026	2026	The study aims to explore the evolution patterns of women's volleyball blocking techniques through a longitudinal analysis of changes in blocking techniques during the women's volleyball semifinals and finals from the 2008 Beijing Olympic Games to the 2024 Paris Olympic Games. Performance data for blocking were derived from video analysis of 20 matches (71 sets). From this sample 4196 blocking actions were coded. The recorded variables included the number of blockers, the blocking positions, the opponent's offensive situation, and blocking effectiveness. Results showed that the number of blockers and blocking effectiveness had changed. The occurrence of triple blockers decreased significantly (p = 0.01), while double blockers became the dominant blocking formation. Significant differences were observed across different periods for both blocking errors (p < 0.05) and ineffective blocking (p < 0.05), whereas blocking points increased, suggesting a continuous improvement in blocking techniques proficiency. Additionally, no significant differences were found in relation to blocking positions or the opponent's offensive situation. The study's findings suggest that blocking in volleyball is gradually evolving from a simple defensive technique into an active scoring method, further highlighting the growing importance of this skill in the sport.		[Wang, Jie; Wang, Mengjuan] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Athlet Performance, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Wang, Jie] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Athlet Performance, Shanghai, Peoples R China								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001730813400001	24	Article; Article		
J	Fryer, Richard P.; Mallett, Clifford J.; Kirby, James N.; Kashdan, Todd B.								Coaching under pressure in Australian high-performance sport: A qualitative study of coach mental performance								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	3			1324	1334		10.1177/17479541261430313			JUN 2026	2026	Pressure in sport comes from a range of perceived factors including uncontrollability, motivation to succeed, and social evaluation. Psychological flexibility is a concept that has been suggested to help performers navigate challenging situations (such as competition pressure) and maintain effective goal-pursuit. In this study, we investigated sport coaches' experiences during elite-level competitions to deepen the understanding of coach performance under pressure. Ten Australian sport coaches (5 men, 5 women) with an average 22.3 years of experience at Olympic Games, Paralympic Games and World Championships across eight sports (athletics [2], cycling, diving, field hockey [2], netball, rowing, swimming, and water polo) participated in semi-structured interviews. Through a process of reflexive thematic analysis, two main themes were generated: (1) coach mental preparation to perform, and (2) coach mental performance in action. These themes underscored the significance of cognitive, emotional, and behavioural factors in coaching performance at the highest level and emphasised the benefits of articulating specific observable coaching behaviours. The findings are discussed, along with recommendations for more research centred around direct observation of coaching in action.		[Fryer, Richard P.; Mallett, Clifford J.] Univ Queensland, Sch Human Movement & Nutr Sci, Brisbane, Australia; [Kirby, James N.] Univ Queensland, Sch Psychol, Brisbane, Australia; [Kashdan, Todd B.] George Mason Univ, Dept Psychol, Fairfax, VA USA; [Fryer, Richard P.] Univ Queensland, St Lucia, Qld 4072, Australia								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001718950500001	72	Article; Article		
J	Peringa, Ilse P.; Platvoet, Sebastiaan W.; Meijer, Rob R.; Niessen, A. Susan M.; Den Hartigh, Ruud J. R.								Rubrics on the pitch: Exploring the reliability of soccer scout's assessments								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	3			1614	1620		10.1177/17479541261428967			JUN 2026	2026	Soccer clubs use rubrics to guide scouts and coaches toward uniform rating standards, yet empirical evidence on their reliability remains limited. Therefore, this exploratory field study examined the inter-rater reliability of scouts' assessments during an 11v11 live match using a rubric. We focused on current and potential performance, information combination methods, and scouts' confidence and perceived difficulty. Sixteen male scouts (Mage = 55 years, Mexperience = 6 years) each evaluated three to four under-13 players (yielding 23 unique players in total), rating seven rubric performance indicators on both current and potential performance: motoric/physical, technical execution, attacking on the ball, attacking positioning, defensive duels, defending positioning, and transitioning. Overall current and potential performance scores were established in two different ways: based on the scouts' judgments (i.e., clinical combination), and by calculating the mean of their indicator ratings (i.e., actuarial combination). Across both these combination methods, inter-rater reliability was moderate for overall current performance (ICC = .61 clinical, ICC = .61 actuarial), but poor for overall potential performance (ICC = .37 clinical, ICC = .42 actuarial). Clinical versus actuarial combination made little difference in reliability. Moreover, scouts reported similar confidence assessing potential but greater difficulty compared to current performance. The findings suggest that evaluations of potential are especially prone to unreliability and highlight the need to further examine reliability in soccer scouting.		[Peringa, Ilse P.; Meijer, Rob R.; Niessen, A. Susan M.; Den Hartigh, Ruud J. R.] Univ Groningen, Dept Psychol, Groningen, Netherlands; [Platvoet, Sebastiaan W.] HAN Univ Appl Sci, Sch Sport & Exercise Studies, Nijmegen, Netherlands; [Peringa, Ilse P.] Univ Groningen, Dept Psychol, Groningen, Netherlands								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001717029900001	41	Article; Article		
J	Caputo, Andrea; Vercelli, Giuseppe; Cortese, Claudio Giovanni								Psychological training in esports: Performance enhancement in professional esports athletes								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	3			1621	1629		10.1177/17479541251407498			JUN 2026	2026	Esports athletes face intense psychological demands, including sustained attention, emotional regulation, and high-performance pressure. Despite the growing need for structured mental preparation in this field, integrated psychological training frameworks remain scarce. This study tested the effectiveness of a video-based psychological training grounded in the e-S.F.E.R.A. model, which targets five core mental skills: Synchrony, Strength, Energy, Rhythm, and Activation. A quasi-experimental design involved 97 professional esports players assigned to either an experimental group (n = 59) receiving the video-trainings or a control group (n = 38). Participants completed self-report measures at three time points assessing self-regulatory functioning, perceived performance, and wellbeing-related psychological dimensions. Results of the repeated-measures ANOVA showed significant time x group interaction effects in key self-regulatory functioning-especially Synchrony, Rhythm, and Energy-as well as in Perceived Potential Expression and Performance Satisfaction. Positive and Negative Affectivity and Engagement also improved significantly in the experimental group. These findings suggest that a structured psychological program, grounded in a coherent and esports-specific model, can enhance both performance-related outcomes and emotional functioning. The e-S.F.E.R.A. framework thus offers a promising tool for psychological preparation in competitive gaming, bridging sport psychology and esports performance optimization.		[Caputo, Andrea; Vercelli, Giuseppe; Cortese, Claudio Giovanni] Univ Turin, Dept Psychol, I-10124 Turin, Italy; [Vercelli, Giuseppe] ISEF Fdn, Sport & Human Performance Psychol Ctr Umbro Marcac, Turin, Italy; [Caputo, Andrea] Univ Turin, Dept Psychol, I-10124 Turin, Italy								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001672377800001	30	Article; Article		
J	Kolstad, Ash T.; Soligon, Clara A.; Laperriere, David; Galarneau, Jean-Michel; Russell, Kelly; Broglio, Steven P.; Goulet, Claude; Hagel, Brent E.; Emery, Carolyn A.								Canadian adolescent tackle football coaches' helmet fitting experience, procedures, and beliefs for helmets and mouthguards effectiveness against injury								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	3			1391	1402		10.1177/17479541251401295			JUN 2026	2026	Wearing a helmet and mouthguard are mandatory for adolescent (ages 14-18) tackle football (American football) players. Coaches are usually responsible for fitting player helmets despite many organizations not mandating/providing training. This structure may create a significant concern for player safety, as 60% of adolescent players wear a poor fitting helmet and wearing a poor fitting helmet may be associated with a higher risk of concussion. We conducted a cross-sectional survey to examine Canadian adolescent tackle football coaches' current helmet fitting procedures and their beliefs towards the effectiveness of helmets and mouthguards for injury prevention. Amongst the 101 coaches from three leagues, most coaches (51%-88%) believed that wearing a mouthguard could protect against concussions, dental injuries, and/or other orofacial injuries. Helmet fitting procedures were highly variable within and between teams, with coaches using between 1 and 7 criteria. Despite 78%-92% of coaches believing that wearing a proper fitting helmet could protect against concussion and/or reduce its severity, 31%-96% of coaches who fit helmets have never received any training. Lack of formal helmet fit training was reported as the largest barrier to fitting helmets, which supports that tackle football organizations should take immediate action to provide coaches with formal helmet fit training.		[Kolstad, Ash T.; Soligon, Clara A.; Galarneau, Jean-Michel; Hagel, Brent E.; Emery, Carolyn A.] Univ Calgary, Fac Kinesiol, Sport Injury Prevent Res Ctr, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Kolstad, Ash T.; Soligon, Clara A.; Galarneau, Jean-Michel; Emery, Carolyn A.] Univ Calgary, Integrated Concuss Res Program, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Kolstad, Ash T.; Soligon, Clara A.; Galarneau, Jean-Michel; Hagel, Brent E.; Emery, Carolyn A.] Univ Calgary, Alberta Childrens Hosp, Res Inst, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Kolstad, Ash T.; Soligon, Clara A.; Galarneau, Jean-Michel; Emery, Carolyn A.] Univ Calgary, Hotchkiss Brain Inst, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Laperriere, David; Goulet, Claude] Univ Laval, Dept Phys Educ, Fac Educ Sci, Quebec City, PQ, Canada; [Laperriere, David] Univ Laval, Fac Med, Sch Rehabil Sci, Quebec City, PQ, Canada; [Russell, Kelly] Univ Manitoba, Dept Pediat & Child Hlth, Winnipeg, MB, Canada; [Broglio, Steven P.] Univ Michigan, Concuss Ctr, Ann Arbor, MI USA; [Hagel, Brent E.; Emery, Carolyn A.] Univ Calgary, Cumming Sch Med, Dept Pediat, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Hagel, Brent E.; Emery, Carolyn A.] Univ Calgary, Cumming Sch Med, Dept Community Hlth Sci, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Hagel, Brent E.; Emery, Carolyn A.] Univ Calgary, OBrien Inst Publ Hlth, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Emery, Carolyn A.] Univ Calgary, McCaig Inst Bone & Joint Hlth, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Kolstad, Ash T.] Univ Calgary, 2500 Univ Dr NW, Calgary, AB T2N 1N4, Canada								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001633875400001	24	Article; Article		
J	De Sousa, Deziray; Labossiere, Sophie; Radziszewski, Stephanie; Paradis, Helene; Belanger-Gravel, Ariane; Gagne, Marie-Helene; Vertommen, Tine; Woodburn, Andrea; Parent, Sylvie								The role of sport norms and organizational pressure on coaches' use of interpersonal violence: The mediating role of perceived instrumental effects of violence								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	3			1265	1276		10.1177/17479541251395228			JUN 2026	2026	Interpersonal violence (IV) in sport is a pervasive issue that threatens athletes' physical, social, and psychological well-being. Sociological theories suggest that organisational pressure and adherence to sport norms, such as traditional masculinity and sport ethic, may contribute to coaches' beliefs in the instrumental benefits of violence, leading to the perpetration of IV. Despite prior research into these risk factors, no study has simultaneously examined individual, organisational, and societal factors influencing coaches' use of IV. This study aimed to explore how coaches' beliefs regarding the instrumental effects of IV mediate the relationship between three independent variables-organisational pressure, masculinity norms, and conformity to sport ethic norms-and the perpetration of three forms of IV (physical, instrumental, psychological/neglect) against athletes. A total of 766 coaches aged 18 and over and involved in organised sports were recruited via email and social media ads. Three separate mediation models were examined, and the three forms of IV were analyzed using probit links and interpreted as probabilities and odds ratios. No indirect effects were found for instrumental and physical violence. However, full mediations were found for conformity to sport ethic norms and organisational pressure in relation to psychological violence and neglect. Furthermore, masculinity norms were partially mediated by beliefs in the instrumental effects of IV concerning psychological violence and neglect. These findings provide insights into the specific sport norms and organisational factors that should be targeted when designing programs to prevent IV perpetrated by coaches in sports.		[De Sousa, Deziray] Univ Quebec Montreal, Fac Human Sci, Dept Psychol, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [De Sousa, Deziray; Labossiere, Sophie; Parent, Sylvie] Interdisciplinary Res Ctr Intimate Relationship Pr, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [De Sousa, Deziray; Labossiere, Sophie; Parent, Sylvie] Univ Quebec Montreal, Equipe Violence Sexuelle & Sante EVISSA, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Labossiere, Sophie; Radziszewski, Stephanie; Vertommen, Tine; Woodburn, Andrea; Parent, Sylvie] Univ Laval, Res Chair Secur & Integr Sport, Quebec City, PQ, Canada; [Labossiere, Sophie; Radziszewski, Stephanie; Woodburn, Andrea; Parent, Sylvie] Univ Laval, Fac Educ, Dept Phys Educ, Quebec City, PQ, Canada; [Paradis, Helene; Gagne, Marie-Helene] Laval Univ, Sch Psychol, Quebec City, PQ, Canada; [Belanger-Gravel, Ariane] Univ Laval, Dept Informat & Commun, Quebec City, PQ, Canada; [Vertommen, Tine] Thomas More Univ Appl Sci, Safeguarding Sport & Soc, Antwerp, Belgium; [Vertommen, Tine] Univ Ghent, Dept Phys Educ, Ghent, Belgium; [Parent, Sylvie] Univ Laval, Pavillon Educ Phys & Sports,2300 Rue Terrasse,Loca, Quebec City, PQ G1V 0A6, Canada								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001630370100001	52	Article; Article		
J	Barrientos-Varela, Merce; Saavedra-Garcia, Miguel A.; Arriaza-Loureda, Rafael; Fernandez-Romero, Juan J.								Did the normative and technological changes really cause modifications in the time and score patterns of women's Olympic taekwondo from 2008 to 2016?								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	3			1872	1886		10.1177/17479541251385206			JUN 2026	2026	The aim of the article is to determine timing and scoring variables relative to taekwondo contests. Some of the indicators and ratios established in this study have not previously been used in the scientific analysis of Olympic taekwondo. Nevertheless, they provide a more nuanced understanding of bout structure and competitive behaviour, offering original contributions to performance analysis within this discipline. Indicators as the opening moment (OM), decisive moment (DM) and closure moment (CM), bout modification time (BMT) were introduced as temporal indicators while initial points gap (IPG), decisive points gap (DPG), final points gap (FPG), relative effectiveness (RE), bout resolution reason (BRR) were considered as scoring indicators. Authors determine stability ratio (SR) and uncertainty ratio (UR) too. All of them have been registered, classified and compared. The results provide insights on the effects of rules and technology modifications on Olympic taekwondo patterns from an innovative point of view. 228 Female Taekwondo bouts, from 2008 to 2016 Olympic Games, have been analysed. In some temporal indicators, no significant changes were found while other temporal and scoring indicators undergo significant differences throughout the three Olympic Editions. The results suggest that the regulatory changes have had a direct impact on the dynamics of Olympic taekwondo bouts. Researchers, trainers, coaches and sports organizations could apply this method to determine the extent to which current changes can affect the taekwondo patterns.		[Barrientos-Varela, Merce; Saavedra-Garcia, Miguel A.; Fernandez-Romero, Juan J.] Univ A Coruna, Grp Invest Ciencias Deporte, La Coruna, Spain; [Arriaza-Loureda, Rafael] Inst Med Arriaza & Asociados, Catedra HM Traumatol Deporte, La Coruna, Spain; [Fernandez-Romero, Juan J.] Univ A Coruna, Grp Invest Ciencias Deporte, La Coruna, Spain								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001605327500001	42	Article; Article		
J	van den Brandt, Floor A. P.; Menting, Stein G. P.; Huijgen, Barbara C. H.; Hettinga, Florentina J.; Elferink-Gemser, Marije T.								Do athletes and coaches do what they know? A mixed-method survey on beliefs and attitudes on drafting in endurance sports								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	3			1373	1380		10.1177/17479541251386161			JUN 2026	2026	Drafting occurs when athletes follow closely behind another to reduce aerodynamic resistance, lowering their biomechanical, physiological, and psychobiological load. However, it is unclear how aware athletes and coaches are of this advantage and how it is applied in training and competition. The aim of this study was to investigate the beliefs and attitudes of athletes and coaches towards drafting. An online survey was conducted with athletes (N = 236) and coaches (N = 79) active in cycling, skating and running. They answered five items on a Likert scale and answered one open question ("what is needed for optimal drafting?"). Thematic analysis revealed six themes, emphasizing the complexity and interpersonal nature of the drafting skill. Overall, 91.3% of respondents agreed that drafting can improve sports performance (60.5% strongly agree), while only 1.7% strongly disagreed. Yet, few indicated that they regularly worked on improving their drafting skills in training (16.4%). There was a moderate correlation between awareness and training on drafting, for athletes (r(s )= 0.31, p < 0.001) and coaches (r(s )= 0.35, p < 0.05). The findings demonstrate that athletes and coaches are generally aware of the advantages of drafting and recognise it as an important, complex and multifaceted skill. Yet, paradoxically, only few see value in exploring and improving this skill during training. This study highlights a critical gap between theoretical understanding and practical application, revealing a missed opportunity in athlete development.		[van den Brandt, Floor A. P.; Elferink-Gemser, Marije T.] Univ Groningen, Univ Med Ctr Groningen, Dept Human Movement Sci, Groningen, Netherlands; [Menting, Stein G. P.] Ulster Univ, Adm Data Res Ctr Northern Ireland, Dept Psychol, Fac Life & Hlth Sci, Coleraine, North Ireland; [Huijgen, Barbara C. H.] Univ Groningen, Fac Behav & Social Sci, Psychol, Groningen, Netherlands; [Hettinga, Florentina J.] Vrije Univ Amsterdam, Fac Behav & Movement Sci, Dept Human Movement Sci, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [van den Brandt, Floor A. P.] Univ Groningen, Univ Med Ctr Groningen, Dept Human Movement Sci, Groningen, Netherlands								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001602720800001	26	Article; Article		
J	McGowan, Courtney; Benjanuvatra, Nat; Legg, Jan; Sheridan, Kristie; Buchan, Jena								Exploring the current landscape and aspirations of Australian strength and conditioning coaches								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	3			1381	1390		10.1177/17479541251377197			JUN 2026	2026	Strength and conditioning (S&C) coaches are invaluable in exercise and sport, with numbers rising globally. This exploratory study sought to better understand who these coaches are, their career aspirations, and to identify potential career-related barriers. An anonymous mixed-methods online survey collected information from Australian S&C coaches on demographics, work-related variables, career aspirations, and industry perceptions. Ninety-eight S&C coaches were included in final analyses, with variations in response numbers across variables. A total 42.4% identified as female (n = 28 of 66) and 71.8% (n = 61) held more than 1 job. Whilst only 9.9% (n = 8 of 81) were contracted for >= 40 h/week, 40.7% reported working >= 40 h (n = 33 of 81). Fifty-five S&C coaches were considering changing jobs, with personal, role-related, and industry factors viewed as barriers to working or progressing in the S&C industry. Overall findings demonstrated S&C coaches often hold multiple jobs to survive financially, with many considering a career change into non-coaching roles or out of S&C. This study identified key areas for review to enhance the support and sustainability of S&C coaches, vital to securing future generations of high-quality, adaptable S&C coaches. Given that our coach profile information (e.g., demographics) aligns with that of various international research, it is feasible our findings offer learnings and guidance for the S&C industry beyond Australia. Such information can guide the development and implementation of sustainable, stakeholder-centred services and support, enabling industry growth and the retention of quality S&C coaches, whilst also supporting the transition of coaches wishing to change or diversify their career pathway.		[McGowan, Courtney; Buchan, Jena] Southern Cross Univ, Fac Hlth, Phys Act Sport & Exercise Res Theme, Gold Coast, Australia; [Benjanuvatra, Nat] Univ Western Australia, Sch Human Sci, Sport Sci Exercise & Hlth, Perth, Australia; [Legg, Jan] Australian Inst Sport, Canberra, Australia; [Sheridan, Kristie] Univ Newcastle, Sch Biomed Sci & Pharm, Newcastle, Australia; [McGowan, Courtney] Southern Cross Univ, Fac Hlth, Phys Act Sport & Exercise Res Theme, Gold Coast, Australia								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001586414000001	22	Article; Article		
J	Morrison, Matthew; Mann, J. Bryan; Read, Dale B.; Thurlow, Fraser; Cowley, Nicholas; Silverthorne, Kade; McMahon, Eric; Weakley, Jonathon								Longitudinal changes in strength, power, speed, and body mass in American football players: Diminishing returns as training age increases								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	3			1513	1525		10.1177/17479541251367154			JUN 2026	2026	The aims of this study were to: 1) detail the strength, power, speed, and body mass (i.e. physical qualities) of National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) Division 1 American football players by playing position across a four-year collegiate career, and 2) quantify the rate of change in physical qualities as athletes progress through their eligibility period. 2628 observations from 512 NCAA Division 1 American football players were collected during a standardised testing battery that took place across a 15-year period. One-repetition maximum bench press and back squat, 40-yard sprint, vertical jump, standing broad jump, and body mass were analyzed. Year-on-year changes in physical characteristics by the entire cohort and positional groups were analyzed using linear mixed models with Cohen's effect size (ES) +/- 95% confidence intervals (CI). Improvements in physical qualities occurred over the four years, although the largest changes were evident in the first year, with the improvements becoming less pronounced each year. For example, across the cohort, large effects in the bench press (ES +/- 95%CI: 1.63 +/- 0.18) and back squat (ES +/- 95%CI: 1.62 +/- 0.18) occurred in the first year but only small changes occurred between years 3 and 4 (ES +/- 95%CI: 0.45 +/- 0.16 and 0.26 +/- 0.16, respectively). Collectively, this study demonstrates the longitudinal changes in strength, power, speed, and body mass of collegiate Division 1 American football players across different positional groups. Furthermore, it shows that physical qualities improve throughout the four years, but the year-on-year change becomes smaller each year and therefore suggests physical qualities become harder to increase/improve.		[Morrison, Matthew; Thurlow, Fraser; Cowley, Nicholas; Silverthorne, Kade; Weakley, Jonathon] Australian Catholic Univ, Sch Behav & Hlth Sci, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [Morrison, Matthew; Thurlow, Fraser; Cowley, Nicholas; Weakley, Jonathon] Australian Catholic Univ, Sports Performance Recovery Injury & New Technol S, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [Morrison, Matthew] Univ Sunshine Coast, Ctr Human Factors & Sociotech Syst, Sippy Downs, Qld, Australia; [Mann, J. Bryan] Texas A&M Univ, Dept Kinesiol & Sport Management, College Stn, TX USA; [Read, Dale B.; Weakley, Jonathon] Leeds Beckett Univ, Carnegie Appl Rugby Res CARR Ctr, Carnegie Sch Sport, Leeds, England; [Read, Dale B.] Manchester Metropolitan Univ, Inst Sport, Dept Sport & Exercise Sci, Manchester, England; [Thurlow, Fraser] Univ Technol Sydney, Fac Hlth, Sch Sport Exercise & Rehabil, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [McMahon, Eric] Natl Strength & Conditioning Assoc, Colorado Springs, CO USA; [Weakley, Jonathon] Rugby Australia, Natl Rugby Training Ctr, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [Morrison, Matthew] Australian Catholic Univ, Sch Behav & Hlth Sci, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [Morrison, Matthew] Australian Catholic Univ, Sports Performance Recovery Injury & New Technol S, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [Morrison, Matthew] Univ Sunshine Coast, Ctr Human Factors & Sociotech Syst, Sippy Downs, Qld, Australia								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001563279100001	19	Article; Article		
J	Aixa-Requena, Saul; Gil-Galve, Albert; Legaz-Arrese, Alejandro; Hernandez-Gonzalez, Vicenc; Reverter-Masia, Joaquin								Inside the academy: Biological maturation practices in Spanish professional football								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	3			1418	1426		10.1177/17479541251369303			JUN 2026	2026	Background Biological maturation varies considerably among adolescent athletes and can significantly influence training, talent identification, and injury risk. However, it remains unclear to what extent professional football academies systematically assess and apply this information in practice.Objectives To investigate how professional Spanish football academies monitor biological maturation, what methods they use, and how this information is applied in training and sport-related decision-making, with comparisons between clubs from the top and second divisions.Methods A total of 36 out of 42 professional Spanish football academies participated in an online survey (17 from the top division and 19 from the second division). The questionnaire addressed whether and how biological maturation is assessed, what specific methods are used, and how the results are applied. Descriptive statistics and comparisons by division level were conducted.Results Only 47% of academies reported formally assessing biological maturation, although 64% indicated that they adapt training content based on developmental factors. Academies from the top division were more likely to perform assessments, use validated methods (e.g., maturity offset, Khamis-Roche), and integrate these data into training and player management decisions.Conclusions There is significant variability in how professional Spanish academies monitor and apply biological maturation. Academies from the top division tend to adopt more advanced and structured practices compared to those from the second division. To promote greater consistency and developmental fairness, standardized monitoring protocols and improved coach education are recommended within the professional football academy system in Spain.		[Aixa-Requena, Saul; Hernandez-Gonzalez, Vicenc; Reverter-Masia, Joaquin] Univ Lleida, Human Movement Res Grp RGHM, Lleida, Spain; [Aixa-Requena, Saul; Hernandez-Gonzalez, Vicenc; Reverter-Masia, Joaquin] Univ Lleida, Phys Educ & Sport Sect, Lleida, Spain; [Gil-Galve, Albert] Youth Football Deport La Coruna, La Coruna, Spain; [Legaz-Arrese, Alejandro] Univ Zaragoza, Fac Hlth & Sport Sci, Zaragoza, Spain; [Hernandez-Gonzalez, Vicenc] Univ Lleida, Fac Educ Sci, Dept Phys Educ, Lleida, Spain								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001552299500001	58	Article; Article		
J	McPherson, April L.; Hogg, Jennifer A.; Foreman, Emalee; Riehm, Christopher D.; Howell, David R.; Grooms, Dustin R.; Myer, Gregory D.								The Next Generation of Strength and Conditioning Practice to Enhance Performance and Reduce Injury Risk: Virtual Reality-Based Integration of Neuromuscular, Neurocognitive, and Sensorimotor Training								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				48	3			340	354		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000902			JUN 2026	2026	Sport-related concussion (SRC) increases the risk of subsequent lower extremity musculoskeletal injury, particularly in youth athletes. This may be due to SRC-altered movement patterns, particularly under neurocognitive challenges. Specifically, dual-tasking-simultaneously completing motor and cognitive tasks-can distinguish patients with a higher risk of lower extremity musculoskeletal injury, offering a unique and unexplored intervention target for clinical, rehabilitation, strength and conditioning practitioners, and coaches. This narrative provides evidence outlining the addition of cognitive components to movement-based interventions to reduce injury risk after SRC. We propose a theoretical framework for a virtual reality-based neuromuscular training intervention that incorporates dual-tasking to target deficits underlying potential mechanisms of increased injury risk after SRC. Virtual reality technology offers a unique environment that may help reduce lower extremity musculoskeletal injury risk after SRC to improve long-term health, well-being, and athletic performance.		[McPherson, April L.; Foreman, Emalee; Riehm, Christopher D.; Myer, Gregory D.] Emory Sports Performance & Res Ctr SPARC, Flowery Branch, GA 30542 USA; [McPherson, April L.; Riehm, Christopher D.; Myer, Gregory D.] Emory Sports Med Ctr, Atlanta, GA 30329 USA; [McPherson, April L.; Riehm, Christopher D.; Myer, Gregory D.] Emory Univ, Sch Med, Dept Orthopaed, Atlanta, GA 30322 USA; [Hogg, Jennifer A.] Univ Tennessee Chattanooga, Dept Hlth & Human Performance, Chattanooga, TN USA; [Howell, David R.] Childrens Hosp Colorado, Sports Med Ctr, Aurora, CO USA; [Howell, David R.] Univ Colorado, Sch Med, Dept Orthoped, Aurora, CO USA; [Grooms, Dustin R.] Ohio Univ, Ohio Musculoskeletal & Neurol Inst OMNI, Athens, OH USA; [Grooms, Dustin R.] Ohio Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Athens, OH USA; [Myer, Gregory D.] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Youth Phys Dev Ctr, Cardiff, Wales; [Myer, Gregory D.] Georgia Inst Technol, Wallace H Coulter Dept Biomed Engn, Atlanta, GA USA; [Myer, Gregory D.] Emory Univ, Atlanta, GA USA; [Myer, Gregory D.] Micheli Ctr Sports Injury Prevent, Waltham, MA USA; [McPherson, April L.] Emory Sports Performance & Res Ctr SPARC, Flowery Branch, GA 30542 USA; [McPherson, April L.] Emory Sports Med Ctr, Atlanta, GA 30329 USA; [McPherson, April L.] Emory Univ, Sch Med, Dept Orthopaed, Atlanta, GA 30322 USA								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001782515100003	55	Article; Article		
J	Springham, M.; Singh, N.; Stafford, L.; Salter, J.; Clarke, A.; Griffiths, T.; Jones, I; May, D.; Stewart, P.								A contextual comparison of UEFA Youth League and English Premier League academy match running demands across the professional development phase								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261438438				2026	Introduction: The UEFA Youth League (UYL) is the highest level of European academy football; yet little is known about its physical demands or how they differ from domestic competition. We compared UYL (U-19) and English Premier League (EPL) academy U-18 and U-21 match running demands at team and positional levels. Methods: Match running data were collected across two seasons from a single EPL Category 1 academy. Thirty-six matches (six per team per season) provided 305 full-match observations for 45 players. GPS and MEMS devices quantified total distance (TD), high-speed running (HSR), sprint distance, high-metabolic-load distance (HMLd), explosive distance (ED), and counts of high-intensity accelerations and decelerations. Linear mixed-effects models with Tukey-adjusted contrasts and Cohen's d effect sizes (ES) were applied. Results: TD was greater in the U-18 s than U-19 s (p < 0.01;ES = small) but similar between the U-18 s and U-21 s (p > 0.05;ES = trivial). However, high-intensity demands largely increased with age: U-19 and U-21 players performed more decelerations than U-18 s (p < 0.01;ES = small), and U-21 s performed more accelerations than U-18 (p < 0.05;ES = small). Wide midfielders (WM) had the greatest HSR, sprint, HMLd, acceleration, and deceleration demands (p < 0.001;ES = small); central midfielders (CM) covered the greatest TD (p < 0.001;ES = small) and had high ED and HMLd (p < 0.05;ES = small); while wide defenders (WD) and forwards had high acceleration and deceleration demands (p < 0.05;ES = small). Conclusion: While TD was similar across age groups, high-speed and high-intensity demands increased with age, especially in wide and central roles. Transitioning from U-18 to U-19 and U-21 competition imposes meaningful increases to match speed and intensity, requiring targeted physical preparation.		[Springham, M.; Singh, N.; Stafford, L.; Clarke, A.; Griffiths, T.; Jones, I; Stewart, P.] Arsenal Football Club, Arsenal Performance & Res Team, London, England; [Springham, M.] St Marys Univ, Fac Sport Allied Hlth & Performance Sci, London, England; [Salter, J.] York St John Univ, Sch Sci Technol & Hlth, InSPIRe, York, England; [May, D.] Brighton & Hove Alb Football Club, Sport Sci Dept, Brighton, England; [Springham, M.] Arsenal Football Club, Arsenal Performance & Res Team, London, England; [Springham, M.] St Marys Univ, Fac Sport Allied Hlth & Performance Sci, London, England								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001779290300001	30	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Pan, Yi-Hsiang; Huang, Chen-Hui; Yeh, Wen-Hsuan; Zhang, Yi-Ya								Development and validation of the Olympic values performance scale for physical education								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261451854				2026	Objectives Physical education is a key avenue for achieving SDG 3 (Good health and well-being) and SDG 4 (Quality education). Yet few measurement tools exist for Olympic values education in PE. This study developed and validated the Olympic Values Performance Scale for Physical Education (OVPSPE), targeting students aged 11-18 and grounded in the IOC's core values of excellence, respect, and friendship.Methods The scale was developed through four sequential studies. Study 1 used focus groups and expert consultations. Study 2 applied exploratory factor analysis, item analysis, and reliability testing. Study 3 confirmed validity through factor analysis, criterion-related evidence, invariance, and cross-validation. Study 4 tested reliability over time.Results Study 1 produced 48 items demonstrating content validity. Study 2 used EFA to construct the OVPSPE, identifying 5 factors with 23 items. Study 3 confirmed the model's goodness of fit and supported multiple aspects of validity. Study 4 demonstrated moderate to good test-retest reliability. Overall, the scale exhibits strong reliability and validity. Implications: The scale consists of five subscales-pursuit of excellence, team cohesion, friendly support, respect for rules and environment, and respect for self and others-comprising 23 items. By articulating Olympic values in greater detail, the instrument enables scholars to empirically evaluate the effectiveness of Olympic values education in physical education classes. It also serves as a practical tool for PE teachers to assess students' Olympic values and provides a solid foundation for future research in Olympic values education.		[Pan, Yi-Hsiang] Nanhua Univ, Program Sports & Hlth Promot, Dept Cultural & Creat Enterprise Management, Chiayi, Taiwan; [Huang, Chen-Hui] Natl Taiwan Sport Univ, Dept Sport Promot, Taoyuan, Taiwan; [Yeh, Wen-Hsuan; Zhang, Yi-Ya] Natl Taiwan Sport Univ, Grad Inst Phys Educ, Taoyuan, Taiwan; [Zhang, Yi-Ya] Natl Taiwan Sport Univ, Grad Inst Phys Educ, Taoyuan, Taiwan								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001779179100001	91	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Sakamoto, Keiko; Lake, Mark J.; Clansey, Adam C.; Lozano-Berges, Gabriel; Liu, Richong; Asai, Takeshi								Influence of ball launch angle and velocity on flight distance in youth elite goalkeepers' goal kicks								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261452984				2026	This study aimed to clarify how ball launch angle and initial velocity influence flight distance in goal kicks performed by elite youth soccer goalkeepers, and to identify the launch angles associated with maximal distance. Six goalkeepers from the same elite youth team performed maximal-effort place kicks on a stationary ball, simulating goal-kick conditions. The three-dimensional ball motion was recorded using an optical motion capture system (500 Hz), and launch angle and initial velocity were calculated. For each participant, a linear regression model describing the angle-velocity relationship was constructed. Flight distance was then estimated using two-dimensional numerical trajectory simulations under a no-spin assumption.Across all participants, initial velocity consistently decreased as launch angle increased, although the strength of this relationship and the regression characteristics varied markedly between individuals. Simulations based on measured launch angles and velocities showed that flight distance increased with launch angle within the observed range. When the launch angle range was extrapolated from 5 degrees to 50 degrees, the angle-distance relationship exhibited a quadratic pattern, with maximal flight distances typically occurring at launch angles between approximately 25 degrees and 30 degrees.These findings indicate that the optimal launch angle for goal kicks is not uniform, but instead depends on each goalkeeper's individual angle-velocity characteristics. This study highlights the importance of individualized, biomechanics-based optimization of launch conditions, rather than relying on a single, standardized angle, for maximizing goal-kick distance in soccer.		[Sakamoto, Keiko] Aichi Gakuin Univ, Dept Hlth Sciencies, 12 Araike,Iwasaki Cho,Nisshin, Aichi 4700195, Japan; [Lake, Mark J.] Liverpool John Moores Univ, Inst Sport & Exercise Sci, Liverpool, England; [Clansey, Adam C.] Univ British Columbia, Dept Mech Engn, Vancouver, BC, Canada; [Lozano-Berges, Gabriel] Univ Zaragoza, Dept Physiatry & Nursing, EXER GENUD,Fac Hlth & Sport Sci, EXERCISE Growth Exercise Nutr & Dev Res Grp, Zaragoza, Spain; [Liu, Richong] Univ Tsukuba, Grad Sch Comprehens Human Sci, Tsukuba, Japan; [Asai, Takeshi] Int Pacific Univ, Phys Educ, Okayama, Japan; [Sakamoto, Keiko] Aichi Gakuin Univ, Dept Hlth Sciencies, 12 Araike,Iwasaki Cho,Nisshin, Aichi 4700195, Japan								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001773983900001	31	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Salazar C, Ciria Margarita; Prado-Meza, Claudia M.; Ramos Carranza, Isela Guadalupe; Cortes-Almanzar, Paola; Islas-Magana, Polet J.								Women's labor participation in the Mexican fitness sector: a longitudinal study based on the National Survey of Fitness Trends (ACSM)								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP											10.1108/IJSMS-10-2025-0510				2026	Purpose This study aims to address a gap in the longitudinal literature by examining the professionalization and working conditions of women within the Mexican fitness industry from 2020 to 2024. Furthermore, it identifies practice trends specifically reported by female professionals in the sector, contrasting these findings with industry growth and traditional gender stereotypes.Design/methodology/approach This study is based on a descriptive longitudinal design (trend study) over a five-year period, with a cumulative sample of 1,559 women, including specialists, instructors and coordinators in the sector. Since data collection was carried out through independent annual sampling, implying variability in the participants of each iteration, the American College of Sports Medicine (ACSM) Global Fitness Trends Survey was used as the instrument, adapted cross-culturally for the Mexican context. The resulting information was processed using descriptive statistics and mean calculations to monitor the temporal evolution of occupational roles, working conditions, and the prevalence of fitness trends.Findings The longitudinal analysis reveals a trajectory of sustained professional diversification, with women increasingly penetrating traditionally male-dominated domains such as functional fitness and personal training. A significant trend of educational over-qualification emerged, indicating that women are attaining higher levels of formal degrees than their male counterparts to secure comparable occupational roles. However, this increased human capital has not yet dismantled persistent structural barriers; the sector remains characterized by occupational segmentation and limited vertical mobility. Gendered logics - centered on body image and "care-based" service provision - continue to restrict women's access to decision-making positions and business ownership, suggesting that professionalization alone is insufficient to overcome the "glass ceiling" in the Mexican fitness market.Research limitations/implications The study is limited by its reliance on self-reported survey data, which may introduce response bias, and by its focus on women currently active in the fitness sector, excluding those who left or never entered the field. Despite these limitations, the findings provide valuable insights into trends in women's professional participation, educational background and occupational roles in Mexico's fitness industry. Results highlight the need for policies and programs that support gender equity, professional development and the creation of inclusive spaces for women in fitness and wellness sectors.Practical implications The findings offer guidance for fitness industry stakeholders to enhance women's participation and professional development. Employers and program coordinators can implement training and mentorship initiatives to support career advancement. Policies promoting equitable pay, leadership opportunities, and inclusive workplace environments can help reduce persistent gender gaps. Additionally, insights on prevalent fitness trends allow organizations to design programs that align with market demand while fostering professional growth among women, contributing to a more diverse, skilled and sustainable workforce in Mexico's wellness and fitness sector.Social implications The study highlights the evolving role of women in Mexico's fitness sector and its broader societal impact. Increased female participation and professionalization contribute to challenging gender stereotypes and promoting equality in traditionally male-dominated environments. By fostering inclusive workplaces and leadership opportunities, the findings support social empowerment and community engagement. Encouraging women's active involvement in wellness and fitness not only benefits individual health and career development but also strengthens social cohesion, diversity and equity within the broader Mexican society.Originality/value This work provides rare empirical evidence on the "professionalization" of the female fitness workforce in an emerging market. It moves beyond cross-sectional snapshots to offer a temporal view of how gendered labor dynamics evolve at the intersection of employment and physical culture.		[Salazar C, Ciria Margarita; Prado-Meza, Claudia M.; Ramos Carranza, Isela Guadalupe] Univ Colima, Colima, Mexico; [Cortes-Almanzar, Paola; Islas-Magana, Polet J.] Univ Guadalajara, Guadalajara, Mexico; [Ramos Carranza, Isela Guadalupe] Univ Colima, Colima, Mexico								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001771384000001	60	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Sun, Yiyang; Lee, Jeongseok; Wen, Xiaolin; Kim, Sangbum								Comparison of Post-Landing Stability During Basketball Jump Shots Under Real and Virtual Defensive Pressure								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT											10.1080/02701367.2026.2665730				2026	The basketball jump shot is a fundamental skill in competitive play, and defensive pressure has been shown to influence movement execution and post-landing control. This study investigated post-landing stability during basketball jump shots performed under virtual reality (VR) defense, real defense, and no-defense conditions. Nineteen basketball club members performed jump-shot landings while ground reaction forces were recorded using a force plate. Time to stabilization (TTS), center of pressure (COP) path length, and jump height were analyzed. The presence of defensive cues was associated with shorter TTS than in the no-defense condition (p < .05), whereas no significant difference was observed between the VR and real defense conditions. COP path length did not differ significantly across conditions. However, jump height was significantly lower in the VR defense condition than in both the real defense and no-defense conditions (p < .05). These findings suggest that VR-based defensive stimuli can alter movement execution and landing responses but do not fully replicate the biomechanical demands of real defensive interactions. Rather, VR represents a distinct sensorimotor context that shapes motor performance. Although VR provides a structured and sport-relevant environment for assessing landing stability, findings obtained in virtual settings should not be interpreted as direct equivalents of real-world performance. Further research incorporating broader biomechanical and perceptual measures is needed to clarify the relationship between VR-based assessments and real-world basketball performance.		[Sun, Yiyang; Kim, Sangbum] Chung Ang Univ, Seoul, South Korea; [Lee, Jeongseok] Yonsei Univ, Seoul, South Korea; [Wen, Xiaolin] Kyung Hee Univ, Seoul, South Korea; [Kim, Sangbum] Chung Ang Univ, Dept Sports Sci, Coll Sports Sci, 4726 Seodong Daero, Anseong, Gyeonggi Do, South Korea								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001783471400001	39	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Bennett, Thomas; Marshall, Phil; Malone, James J.; Witter, William; Towlson, Chris								Variation of match-play high-speed running metrics of professional rugby league players using different threshold methods								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261446438				2026	Rugby league practitioners aim to quantify the running demands of match-play, with high-speed running (HSR) perceived important. Rugby league matches are complex with external load metrics specific to the contextual factors of match-play resulting in metrics like HSR having high variability between matches. Practitioners apply various methods to quantify HSR, with absolute and individualised methods anchored to speed and fitness properties the most common. However, it is unknown whether substituting an absolute threshold for an individualised method would result in HSR between matches having lower variability. Therefore, the aim of this study was to determine whether absolute or individualised HSR thresholds resulted in lower match-to-match variability during a professional rugby league season. Forty-five 1(st) team rugby league players competing in the European Super League participated. Global positioning system data was collected from twenty-seven matches with HSR calculated using: distance >5.5 m & centerdot;s(-1), >MAS 5-min, >MAS corrected and >65% max sprint speed (MSS). Mean values displayed HSR for the whole team to be the highest for MAS 5 min (682 +/- 83 m), followed by MAS corrected (466 +/- 63 m), 5.5 m & centerdot;s(-1) (262 +/- 52 m) and 65% MSS (196 +/- 39 m). Coefficient of variation presented 65% MSS (20.0%) and 5.5m & centerdot;s(-1) (19.6%) to have the highest variability for the whole team, with MAS 5-min (12.2%) and MAS corrected (13.2%) methods having the lowest variability. Ultimately, individualising HSR using MAS methods results in lower variability for the whole team and different playing positions and highlights variability of HSR increases with threshold speed.		[Bennett, Thomas; Witter, William] Hull FC Rugby League Club, Phys Performance Dept, Kingston Upon Hull, England; [Bennett, Thomas; Marshall, Phil; Towlson, Chris] Univ Hull, Sch Sport Exercise & Rehabil Sci, Kingston Upon Hull, England; [Malone, James J.] Malone Performance Ltd, Liverpool, England; [Bennett, Thomas] Hull FC Rugby League Club, Phys Performance Dept, Kingston Upon Hull, England; [Bennett, Thomas] Univ Hull, Sch Sport Exercise & Rehabil Sci, Kingston Upon Hull, England								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001772657700001	28	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Brinkmoeller, Birte; Eckardt, Valeria C.; Dreiskaemper, Dennis; Hoener, Oliver; Strauss, Bernd								"Why did no one recognize this person as a talent?": Advancing selection practices through a comparative analysis of sports and business								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261448333				2026	Selection represents a central challenge in both sports and business. Despite apparent differences between these domains (e.g., age at selection, number of available positions), fundamental parallels exist: both share the overarching goal of identifying individuals who have to potential to contribute to future organizational success. Despite this common objective, systematic cross-domain exchange remains largely absent. The present study therefore aimed to explore and compare selection processes across both domains from practical and scientific perspectives, identifying similarities, differences, and potential for cross-domain knowledge transfer. Semi-structured interviews were conducted with 12 participants: coaches for national team squads (n = 4), corporate recruiters (n = 4), sports science researchers (n = 2), and business psychology researchers (n = 2). Data were analyzed using qualitative content analysis. Key differences emerged in requirement analysis implementation, assessment approaches (holistic vs. isolated), systematization and structuring of assessments, and normative orientation of scientific discourse. Commonalities included emphasis on motivation and person-fit considerations, as well as the need for enhanced theory-practice collaboration. Sports practitioners demonstrated reflective awareness of current limitations but lacked systematic observation protocols and clear decision rules. Business selection showed greater procedural standardization, but underutilized work samples despite strong validity evidence. Findings suggest that sports may benefit from systematic requirement analyses, structured observation protocols, and bias-awareness training adapted from the business domain. Conversely, business could learn from sports' extensive use of work samples and developmental assessment perspectives. Cross-domain learning potential exists when respecting fundamental domain-specific differences and adapting principles accordingly.		[Brinkmoeller, Birte; Eckardt, Valeria C.; Strauss, Bernd] Univ Munster, Inst Sport & Exercise Sci, Dept Sport & Exercise Psychol, Munster, Germany; [Dreiskaemper, Dennis] TU Dortmund Univ, Inst Sport & Sport Sci Sport & Exercise Psychol, Dortmund, Germany; [Hoener, Oliver] Eberhard Karls Univ Tubingen, Inst Sports Sci, Tubingen, Germany; [Brinkmoeller, Birte] Univ Munster, Inst Sport & Exercise Sci, Dept Sport & Exercise Psychol, Munster, Germany								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001769855900001	87	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Koykka, Miika; Ihalainen, Johanna K.; Saari, Anssi; Waller, Benjamin; Cronin, Neil J.								Associations between strength and power and throwing performance in high-level male and female javelin throwers								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261448854				2026	Javelin throwing presents some unique characteristics compared to other overarm throwing sports and imposes considerable physical demands on the throwers. As these demands have not been adequately quantified in the literature, this study investigated the associations between strength, power, and javelin throwing performance. Thirteen male (age: 24 +/- 3 years, personal best: 77.0 +/- 5.7 m, javelin throwing as the primary sport: 8 +/- 3 years) and fourteen female (24 +/- 5 years, 55.6 +/- 5.7 m, 8 +/- 4 years) javelin throwers were tested for javelin throwing performance, unilateral and bilateral vertical jumps, standing overhead medicine ball throw, and isometric maximal strength in various upper and lower body exercises. In males, throwing performance was associated moderately to strongly with bilateral and unilateral drop and depth jump measures, and with forearm supination strength of the throwing arm (R = .56 to .72, p < .05). In females, throwing performance was associated moderately to strongly with ankle plantarflexion and hip abduction strength in each leg, as well as with grip and shoulder internal rotation strength of the throwing arm (R = .55 to .73, p < .05). The results show clear sex-specific differences in important strength and power measures for javelin throwing. In males, better throwers possess greater lower body power whereas better female throwers display greater upper and lower body maximal strength.		[Koykka, Miika; Ihalainen, Johanna K.; Saari, Anssi; Waller, Benjamin] Finnish Inst High Performance Sport KIHU, Jyvaskyla, Finland; [Koykka, Miika; Ihalainen, Johanna K.; Cronin, Neil J.] Univ Jyvaskyla, Fac Sport & Hlth Sci, Jyvaskyla, Finland; [Waller, Benjamin] Reykjavik Univ, Phys Act Phys Educ Sport & Hlth Res Ctr PAPESH, Dept Sport Sci, Reykjavik, Iceland; [Cronin, Neil J.] Univ Gloucestershire, Sch Educ & Sci, Cheltenham, Glos, England; [Koykka, Miika] Finnish Inst High Performance Sport KIHU, Jyvaskyla, Finland; [Koykka, Miika] Univ Jyvaskyla, Fac Sport & Hlth Sci, Jyvaskyla, Finland								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001769232000001	44	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Becker, James; Burgess, Isaac J. L.; Livingood, Ethan								Physiological and biomechanical effects of changing rifle carry position in biathletes								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261448188				2026	Carrying a biathlon rifle increases physiological demands and alters skiing mechanics. How rifle position and harness tightness influence these responses remains unclear. This study examined the physiological, biomechanical, and perceptual effects of manipulating rifle position and harness tightness in elite biathletes. Sixteen biathletes skied with their rifle in five configurations: habitual baseline (HAB), high/tight (HT), high/loose (HL), low/tight (LT), and low/loose (LL). Respiratory and heart rate variables, 3D kinematics, plantar forces, and athlete perceptions of comfort and efficiency were measured. Data were analyzed using linear mixed-effects models and Statistical Parametric Mapping. The HT configuration decreased oxygen consumption by 5.2% (p = .002) and improved apparent gross efficiency by 6.1% (p = .003) compared to HAB. HT was also associated with longer cycle times and lengths and lower cycle rate (all p < .001) compared to the low conditions. Peak plantar forces were greater in HT compared with HAB (p = .013). SPM temporal analyses revealed condition-specific differences in pole angles, plantar forces, sagittal plane shoulder and elbow motion, and frontal plane hip motion (all p < .05) during distinct phases of the ski cycle. Perceived comfort varied widely, with no condition being consistently preferred (p > .096). Changing rifle position and harness tightness alters physiological demand and selected biomechanical characteristics during biathlon skiing. However, perceived subjective comfort did not align with objective measures, underscoring the need for individualized, evidence-based rifle carriage strategies in biathlon.		[Becker, James; Burgess, Isaac J. L.; Livingood, Ethan] Montana State Univ, Dept Food Syst Nutr & Kinesiol, Dr James Becker,950 West Grant St, Bozeman, MT 59717 USA; [Becker, James] Montana State Univ, Dept Food Syst Nutr & Kinesiol, Dr James Becker,950 West Grant St, Bozeman, MT 59717 USA								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001767209200001	34	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Csurilla, Gergely; Ferto, Imre; Barath, Lajos								Efficiency in the Olympic Games: The Role of Mobility and Inequality								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS											10.1177/15270025261450150				2026	This paper presents the analysis of Olympic efficiency by introducing a weighted performance score that values both medals and near-podium finishes and by applying a random-parameters stochastic frontier model with heteroscedastic inefficiency to the Summer Games, 1996-2020. Unlike earlier studies, we allow production elasticities to vary across countries and examine the role of sports diversification in shaping efficiency. The results highlight the importance of broad participation across disciplines, showing that diversification not only raises potential output but also reduces inefficiency. Distributional analysis further reveals modest declines in inequality and meaningful opportunities for upward mobility, even as top performers persist. The findings suggest that efficient Olympic nations combine scale, diversification, and organizational quality, offering policy lessons beyond resource levels alone.		[Csurilla, Gergely; Ferto, Imre; Barath, Lajos] ELTE Ctr Econ & Reg Stud, Inst Econ, 1097 TothKalman U 4, Budapest, Hungary; [Csurilla, Gergely] Hungarian Univ Sports Sci, Sport Econ & Dec Making Res Ctr, Budapest, Hungary; [Ferto, Imre] Corvinus Univ Budapest, Dept Agr Econ & Rural Dev, Budapest, Hungary; [Ferto, Imre] Czech Univ Life Sci, Dept Econ, Prague, Czech Republic; [Csurilla, Gergely] ELTE Ctr Econ & Reg Stud, Inst Econ, 1097 TothKalman U 4, Budapest, Hungary; [Csurilla, Gergely] Hungarian Univ Sports Sci, Sport Econ & Dec Making Res Ctr, Budapest, Hungary								0							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001767209900001	52	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Ozturk, Pinar; Kavasoglu, Irem; Kizilgunes, Mine; Koca, Canan								Prevalence, gender differences, and perpetrators of harassment and abuse in sport: Evidence from Turkiye								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261448398				2026	Interpersonal violence in sport constitutes a global public-health and safeguarding concern, yet national prevalence data remain limited in Turkiye. This cross-sectional study estimated the prevalence of psychological abuse, physical, and sexual harassment and abuse, and neglect among Turkish athletes, examined gender differences, and described perpetrator patterns, responses, and impacts. Within this context, particular attention is given to the roles and positioning of coaches within these dynamics. A researcher-developed survey was administered to athletes under 18 (n = 1304) and 18 and over (n = 1176) across 58 national sport federations. Analyses included descriptive statistics, chi(2) tests, and Mann-Whitney U tests. Among athletes under 18, 78.9% reported psychological abuse, 50.5% physical abuse, 49.2% neglect, and 38.5% sexual at least once during their sporting careers; among athletes aged 18 and over, the respective rates were 79.0%, 49.7%, 44.3%, and 27.9%. No overall gender difference emerged among athletes under 18 across abuse types. However, among athletes aged 18 and over, women reported higher exposure to physical abuse, neglect, and sexual harassment and abuse. The most frequent response across age groups was not taking the incident seriously, and the most common impact was emotional distress. These findings provide the first national overview of harassment and abuse among athletes in Turkiye, documenting high prevalence and gender-differentiated risk, particularly among adult women. The study underscores the need for systematic safeguarding structures in sport and highlights the importance of involving key stakeholders, particularly athletes and coaches, in these processes.		[Ozturk, Pinar; Kizilgunes, Mine; Koca, Canan] Hacettepe Univ, Fac Sports Sci, Beytepe Campus, TR-06800 Ankara, Turkiye; [Kavasoglu, Irem] Cukurova Univ, Fac Sports Sci, Ankara, Turkiye; [Ozturk, Pinar] Hacettepe Univ, Fac Sports Sci, Beytepe Campus, TR-06800 Ankara, Turkiye								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001767217500001	56	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Estavillo, Diego; Fabrica, Gabriel								Collective external load and competitive success in elite international soccer: A PCA-derived synthetic Index from the 2024 Copa America								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261449409				2026	This study developed a synthetic index of collective physical performance to analyse match running profiles of national teams during the 2024 Copa America. Five external load variables (total distance, high-intensity running distance, sprint distance, accelerations, and decelerations), obtained from official optical tracking reports for 32 matches of 16 teams, were expressed per minute and normalized to the tournament maximum. Principal component analysis based on the covariance matrix was performed on mean-centred data. Sampling adequacy was confirmed (KMO=0.815; Bartletts test: chi(2) = 200.45; df = 10; p < 0.001). The first principal component (PC1) explained 74.4% of variance and was retained as the team synthetic index. Sprint and high-intensity running showed the highest loadings, whereas total distance showed minimal loading. PC1 scores varied substantially between teams and across competition phases, with heterogeneous patterns observed between group and knockout stages and notable within-team variability across matches. Uruguay national team achieved the highest PC1 score, while Argentina national team maintained negative PC1 values throughout the tournament despite ultimately winning the championship. The association between mean PC1 and tournament performance percentage was weak and non-significant (Spearman rho = 0.20, 95% CI [-0.38, 0.64], p = 0.46). These findings indicate that collective physical loads differ across teams and vary across competition phases, while their association with competitive success appears limited and inconclusive. The proposed synthetic index provides a parsimonious and interpretable summary of external load that may assist practitioners in contextualising collective physical demands across matches within the multifactorial structure of elite soccer performance.		[Estavillo, Diego] Asociac Uruguaya Futbol, Rendimiento Selecc Uruguaya, Montevideo, Uruguay; [Fabrica, Gabriel] Univ Republica, Fac Med, Unidad Acad Biofis, Montevideo, Uruguay; [Fabrica, Gabriel] Univ Catolica Santisima Concepcion, Dept Sports Sci & Phys Conditioning, Concepcion, Chile; [Fabrica, Gabriel] Univ Republica, Fac Med, Unidad Acad Biofis, Montevideo, Uruguay; [Fabrica, Gabriel] Unidad Acad Biofis, Gen Flores 2125, Montevideo 11800, Uruguay								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001767210400001	40	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Nosek, Perry; Andrew, Matthew; Brownlee, Thomas; Roberts, Simon								"You can't play in the Premier League without good sprint distance": Exploring the perceptions of professional soccer coaches in England on the usefulness and application of training load data								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261448863				2026	The aim of this case study was to explore professional youth soccer coaches in England's perceptions of training load variables and how the information can support their practice. Semi-structured interviews were conducted at a single soccer club with five academy coaches (U16-U23) with reflexive thematic analysis utilised to develop overarching themes within each central organising concept. Within the first concept of variable selection through principal component analysis, whereby coaches responded to examples of variable groupings and visualisations, coaches reported that this method was difficult to understand, yet the ability to show information on a 2D-scatterplot was appealing. Coaches typically reported high favourability towards variables such as total, high-speed, and sprint distances, however had little support for accelerations and decelerations. In the second concept of daily use, themes emerged for the use of training load data in the evaluation of session physical outputs, such as if players outputs were higher or lower than usual and using this information to make decisions for future training sessions and supporting their subjective observations. A final concept, longitudinal use, comprised of the themes relating to comparisons to first team training methodologies and load planning. Taken together, these results highlight the training load variables of importance to coaches alongside key concepts of their practice that sports scientists can support with appropriate feedback of data. How this information is utilised in data feedback processes, however, requires investigation. Furthermore, how these results are generalisable to coaches from alternate soccer clubs and age groups should be studied.		[Nosek, Perry; Roberts, Simon] Liverpool John Moores Univ, Res Inst Sport & Exercise Sci, Liverpool, England; [Nosek, Perry] Sheffield United Football Club, Sheffield, England; [Andrew, Matthew] Manchester Metropolitan Univ, Dept Sport & Exercise Sci, Manchester, England; [Brownlee, Thomas] Univ Birmingham, Sch Sport Exercise & Rehabil Sci, Birmingham, England; [Andrew, Matthew] Manchester Metropolitan Univ, Dept Sport & Exercise Sci, Manchester, England; [Andrew, Matthew] Manchester Metropolitan Univ, Inst Sport, Dept Sport & Exercise Sci, Inst Sport Bldg,99 Oxford Rd, Manchester M1 7EF, England								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001767216900001	89	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Mack, Sydney; Anderson-Butcher, Dawn; Bates, Samantha; Goodway, Jacqueline D.								Coaching under pressure: An exploration of stress, burnout, and coaching behaviors using self determination theory								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261443525				2026	Youth sport coaches play a critical role in influencing developmental outcomes for athletes, including prolonged engagement in sport and physical activity, life skill development, and resilience. However, due to lack of knowledge, limitations in organizational support, or personal and professional experiences, coaches do not always engage in coaching behaviors that promote this growth and well-being. Within this body of literature, there are gaps in examining how specific coach experiences, like stress and burnout, influence coaching behaviors. Using Self Determination Theory (SDT), the current study utilized a cross-sectional design to explore the relationships among stress, burnout, need-supportive behaviors, and need-thwarting behaviors. Researchers collected survey responses from 353 youth sport coaches across the United States. Data were analyzed using Structural Equation Modeling (SEM). Results (chi(2) = 1,869.67; CFI = .96; SRMR = .07; RMSEA = .045) revealed that burnout was a stronger predictor of need-supportive and need-thwarting behaviors than stress. Coaches reporting higher levels of burnout also reported less use of need-supportive behaviors (p < .01) and more use of need-thwarting behaviors (p < .01). Stress was not found to be a strong predictor even though most coaches in the sample reported experiencing moderate to high levels of stress. Findings indicate a need to support youth sport coaches by utilizing strategies to reduce rates of coach burnout and support coaches experiencing burnout.		[Mack, Sydney; Anderson-Butcher, Dawn] Ohio State Univ, Coll Social Work, Columbus, OH USA; [Bates, Samantha; Goodway, Jacqueline D.] Michigan State Univ, Dept Kinesiol, E Lansing, MI USA; [Mack, Sydney] Coll Social Work, 1947 Coll Rd N, Columbus, OH 43210 USA								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001767083200001	98	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Kons, Rafael Lima; Neto, Frederico Ribeiro; Costa, Rodrigo Rodrigues Gomes; Gulias, Vinicius de Oliveira; Felix, Guilherme								Instant video replay in para taekwondo: Influence on referees' decisions and match outcomes								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261448860				2026	The use of video-based technology in sports has enhanced decision-making during controversial actions; however, research on its application in Para Taekwondo is limited. This study aimed to describe the frequency and duration of Instant Video Replay (IVR) and its influence on referees' decision-making across sex and weight categories at the Paris 2024 Paralympic Games. A total of 121 athletes (61 male, 60 female) considering 151 matches competed, generating 72 IVR requests. Variables analysed included action type (penalty or score), action outcome (decision upheld or overturned), match result, IVR duration, and time of request. The comparison between IVR variables and sex or weight divisions were examined using Fisher's exact tests with Phi coefficients, while differences in IVR duration and request time were assessed using Student's t-tests, with effect sizes calculated via Cohen's d. The IVR requests were predominantly for penalties (91%), more prevalent during eliminatory phases (69%), and decisions were overturned in 55% of cases. No significant associations were found between IVR variables and sex or weight divisions (p > 0.05). However, IVR duration was significantly longer in female bouts than in male bouts (t = 2.41; p = 0.018; Cohen's d = 0.57), suggesting that higher technical variability and borderline situations in female matches require more detailed interpretation. These findings indicate that, although IVR is relatively infrequent, it plays an important role in clarifying ambiguous situations and supporting referees' decision-making, contributing to greater decision consistency in Paralympic combat sports.		[Kons, Rafael Lima; Gulias, Vinicius de Oliveira] Univ Fed Bahia, Fac Educ, Dept Phys Educ, BR-40110100 Salvador, Bahia, Brazil; [Neto, Frederico Ribeiro; Costa, Rodrigo Rodrigues Gomes] SARAH Network Rehabil Hosp, Paralymp Sports Dept, Brasilia, Brazil; [Felix, Guilherme] Brazilian Taekwondo Confederat, Performance Anal Dept, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil; [Kons, Rafael Lima] Univ Fed Bahia, Fac Educ, Dept Phys Educ, BR-40110100 Salvador, Bahia, Brazil								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001767051900001	18	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Waerner, Therese								Enabling or constraining? Equestrian coaches' roles in supporting meaningful participation								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261448859				2026	This study explores how equestrian coaches enable or constrain meaningful participation among young equestrians within the context of Swedish riding schools. Grounded in the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child (UNCRC), particularly Article 12 concerning children's rights to express their views, the research adopts Cahill and Dadvand's 7P model as its analytical framework. Drawing upon approximately 170 h of ethnographic fieldwork and eight semi-structured interviews with riding instructors, the study examines how professional roles, pedagogical routines, and cultural traditions shape participation. The findings reveal tensions between performance-oriented and relational coaching approaches. While some instructors' frame participation primarily through safety and technical mastery, others emphasise dialogue, trust, and emotional safety as integral to learning. Hierarchical power relations, safety norms, and time constraints frequently restrict young equestrians' opportunities to influence decisions, yet relationally oriented instructors demonstrate that meaningful participation can emerge even within existing structures. The analysis highlights the dual role of coaches as both enablers and gatekeepers of children's rights, suggesting that participation in equestrian sport is not merely a pedagogical choice but a rights-based obligation. The study contributes to ongoing debates on cultural leadership and child-centred pedagogy in youth sport by illuminating how democratic coaching practices can foster safer, more inclusive, and empowering equestrian environments.		[Waerner, Therese] Swedish Sch Sport & Hlth Sci, Dept Movement Culture & Soc, Stockholm, Sweden; [Waerner, Therese] Swedish Sch Sport & Hlth Sci, Dept Movement Culture & Soc, Stockholm, Sweden								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001765901300001	32	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Bale, Jack Harry; Suppiah, Haresh; Ahn, Nayun; McCosker, Chris; Davids, Keith; Quigley, Carrie; Middleton, Kane								An ecological dynamics interpretation of match-wide performance outcomes in elite ISSF air rifle shooting competitions								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261447202				2026	Traditionally, Olympic air rifle shooting research has focused on averaged biomechanical measures or gun-aiming-point trajectory metrics to analyse performance. Most research has been conducted in training environments, with a lack of understanding of competitive performance behaviours in elite shooters. The current study attempts to address both these issues by identifying different shooting behaviours, investigating when they might emerge throughout the duration of a whole match to uncover potentially functional and dysfunctional behaviours. To achieve this aim, a longitudinal K-means cluster analysis was performed on target metrics for individual shooters from the SIUS AG electronic target-scoring systems. Performance data were analysed from various elite competitions, including Grand Prix, Continental Games, World Cups, and the World Championships. Performance data included target metrics such as shot score, shot interval, and X- and Y-coordinates of shot positions. The longitudinal cluster analysis model included 3946 different match performances. Data were split into two clusters of match-wide behaviours. Results indicated that Cluster A (623.15 points) displayed significantly higher match scores than Cluster B (621.64 points). Scoring differences between clusters were mainly in the first 40-shots (excluding the first shot). Athletes in Cluster A took significantly longer to complete all shots throughout a match. Cluster A also exhibits a greater number of shot-by-shot time interval differences in a match, suggesting a possibly greater ability to adapt to changing match constraints, compared with Cluster B. It is concluded that there may be a need for adaptable shooting behaviours to changing match constraints to stabilise shooting performance.		[Bale, Jack Harry; Suppiah, Haresh; Ahn, Nayun; Middleton, Kane] La Trobe Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Human Serv & Sport, Sport Performance & Nutr Res Grp, Melbourne, Australia; [McCosker, Chris] Australian Catholic Univ, Sch Behav & Hlth Sci, Banyo Campus, Brisbane, Australia; [Davids, Keith] Sheffield Hallam Univ, Sch Sport & Phys Act, Sheffield, England; [Quigley, Carrie] Natl Rifle Coach, Natl Coaching Team, Adelaide, Australia; [Middleton, Kane] La Trobe Univ, Rehabil Nutr & Sport, Melbourne, Australia								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001765885900001	77	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Ferguson, Conor; Mason, Carolynne								Olympic swimmers' perspectives on how they want to be led								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261446432				2026	This study examines Olympic swimmers' leadership preferences within high performance sport environments, addressing a notable gap in literature, as leadership research has predominantly focused on team sports contexts. Recent public and institutional scrutiny of coaching behaviours, safeguarding failures, and athlete welfare within elite swimming further highlight the importance of understanding athletes' perspectives on leadership. Employing semi structured interviews with 15 Olympic swimmers and thematic analysis guided by Chelladurai's Multidimensional Model of Leadership, the research identified four central themes: (1) the critical role of trust and psychological safety within coach-athlete relationships; (2) athletes' preference for collaborative leadership styles over autocratic approaches; (3) the significance of cohesive team cultures and effective interdisciplinary collaboration; and (4) the necessity for comprehensive feedback that clearly communicates the rationale behind training methods. The findings reveal that Olympic swimmers value emotionally intelligent and adaptable leadership, sensitive to their developmental stages and personal experiences. These insights contribute to ongoing debates on effective leadership practices within elite sport by foregrounding athletes' lived experiences of leadership within Olympic swimming. Collectively, these themes offer an interpretive account of how Olympic swimmers make sense of leadership through relational, emotional, and cognitive experiences, highlighting aspects of leadership that athletes themselves consider central within contemporary high-performance swimming environments. Practically, coach education should embed clear rationale-sharing and emotionally intelligent, collaborative practices to protect athlete welfare while sustaining performance. Carrying out this study in the period surrounding Paris 2024 situates these preferences within contemporary high-performance systems.		[Ferguson, Conor; Mason, Carolynne] Loughborough Univ, Sch Sport Exercise & Hlth Sci, Loughborough, England; [Mason, Carolynne] Loughborough Univ, Sch Sport Exercise & Hlth Sci, Loughborough, England								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001765901600001	44	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Braz, Diogo Salgado; Gouveia, Elvio R.; Teixeira, Diogo S.; Sarmento, Hugo; Monteiro, Diogo								Life satisfaction in young footballers: The contribution of basic needs satisfaction and passion								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261445523				2026	The present study was grounded in Self-Determination Theory and the Dualistic Model of Passion. The objective of the study was to examine the relationships between basic psychological need satisfaction, passion (harmonious and obsessive), and life satisfaction in youth football players. The sample comprised 403 male youth football players aged 13 to 17 years who completed validated self-report measures assessing autonomy, competence, relatedness, passion for football, and global life satisfaction. The structural equation modeling approach was employed to assess direct and indirect associations among variables, as well as to ascertain invariance of the model across age groups. The results of the study indicated that the satisfaction of basic psychological needs was associated with a propensity toward harmonious passion, while concurrently demonstrating an inverse relationship with obsessive passion. The harmonious passion-life satisfaction relationship was found to be positive, while the obsessive passion-life satisfaction relationship was found to be negative. The present study examined the relationship between need satisfaction and life satisfaction, with the hypothesis that passion would mediate this relationship. It was predicted that the way players internalize their motivation would play a central role in translating sport experiences into broader well-being. The structural model demonstrated invariance across age groups, thereby suggesting developmental robustness of these motivational processes throughout adolescence. These findings underscore the significance of need-supportive environments in youth football, which are instrumental in fostering adaptive forms of passion and promoting long-term psychological well-being.		[Braz, Diogo Salgado; Sarmento, Hugo] Univ Coimbra, Fac Sport Sci & Phys Educ, P-3040248 Coimbra, Portugal; [Gouveia, Elvio R.] Univ Madeira, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Funchal, Portugal; [Gouveia, Elvio R.] Interact Technol Inst, Lab Robot & Engn Syst, Funchal, Portugal; [Teixeira, Diogo S.] Lusofona Univ, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Lisbon, Portugal; [Teixeira, Diogo S.] Res Ctr Sport Phys Educ & Exercise & Hlth, Lisbon, Portugal; [Sarmento, Hugo] Univ Coimbra, Interdisciplinary Ctr Study Human Performance CIPE, P-3040248 Coimbra, Portugal; [Monteiro, Diogo] Res Ctr Sport Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev CIDESD, P-2411901 Leiria, Portugal; [Monteiro, Diogo] Polytech Univ Leiria, ESECS, P-2411901 Leiria, Portugal; [Braz, Diogo Salgado] Univ Coimbra, Fac Sport Sci & Phys Educ, P-3040248 Coimbra, Portugal								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001758662400001	71	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Han, Gyujik; Chang, Yonghwan; Yoo, Tae Woong; Boas, Julia; Cunningham, George B.								Discrete emotion dynamics and social media engagement: integrating stance detection and multi-emotion classification								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP											10.1108/IJSMS-04-2025-0168				2026	PurposeThis study examines emotional expression and engagement on social media during a collegiate football rivalry game. We ask (1) how discrete emotions change across the event when discourse is separated by team stance and (2) how discrete emotions relate to different engagement modes on X.Design/methodology/approachUsing the X Search API, we collected posts from the 2023 UF vs. Florida State University football game (FSU 24, UF 15) with balanced team search terms (n = 21,913). We inferred stance using cue-based rules that capture explicit support and opponent-directed attacks (Pro-UF, Pro-FSU, Neutral/Unclear). Emotions were measured with a RoBERTa-based classifier trained on the GoEmotions dataset. We aggregated probabilities into 30-min bins by stance and linked dominant emotions to engagement mode.FindingsEmotion trends differed by stance, showing that overall discourse reflects a mix of affiliation groups. Each stance group exhibited distinct emotion trajectories across the game window, with distinct profiles in both magnitude and timing as game events unfolded. Emotions within the same valence diverged, and engagement patterns were mode-specific. Admiration and excitement drew likes and retweets; curiosity, confusion and disapproval drew replies; and disappointment appeared broadly across replies, quotes, and views.Originality/valueThe study advances sport social media research by integrating stance detection with multi-emotion classification and by linking these measures to mode-specific engagement outcomes. This approach demonstrates that binary measures and stance-blind analyses can mask meaningful complexity in fan behavior, while offering clearer guidance for sport social media research.		[Han, Gyujik; Chang, Yonghwan; Yoo, Tae Woong; Boas, Julia] Univ Florida, Gainesville, FL 32611 USA; [Cunningham, George B.] Yale Univ, Berkeley Divin Sch, New Haven, CT USA; [Han, Gyujik] Univ Florida, Gainesville, FL 32611 USA								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001757338400001	54	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Grier, Leesa Anne; Meyer, Amanda Jane; Leicht, Anthony								Athletic movement competency of semi-elite, adolescent, female, rugby league athletes								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261444457				2026	Objectives: To quantify movement competency in adolescent female rugby league athletes using the Athlete Ability Assessment and compare outcomes with age-matched male athletes to identify sex-specific differences. Design: Observational, cross-sectional study. Methods: Thirty female athletes (16.0 +/- 1.0 years) competing in the Queensland rugby league competition completed the Athlete Ability Assessment (AAA), comprising six tasks, overhead squat, lunge, single-leg Romanian deadlift, and push-up. Task scores and total AAA scores (mean +/- SD) were compared with a previously assessed age-matched males. k-means cluster analysis using the six task scores classified female athletes into lower- and higher-skilled groups. Between-sex and -group differences were assessed using Mann-Whitney U tests. Effect sizes were calculated using rank-biserial correlation coefficients (r) and interpreted as small (<0.30), moderate (0.30-0.49), or large (>= 0.50). Statistical significance was set at p < 0.05. Results: Females demonstrated significantly lower total AAA scores than males (30.0 +/- 7.9 vs. 34.7 +/- 4.1, p < 0.001), with lower scores across all tasks except push-ups. Females scored higher on left and right single-leg lunge tasks (p < 0.001). Sex comparisons revealed moderate to large effect sizes across tasks. Sub-analysis identified distinct lower- and higher-skilled females, differentiated by overhead squat (r = 0.955), single-leg lunge (left r = 0.783, right r = 0.819), and total AAA score (r = 0.814). Conclusion: At entry to the talent development pathway, female rugby league athletes exhibited lower movement competency than males, alongside substantial inter-individual variability. These findings support movement-competency-led, sex-specific strength and conditioning approaches. The AAA provides a practical tool to stratify athletes and guide safe progression toward higher-load strength and power training.		[Grier, Leesa Anne; Meyer, Amanda Jane] James Cook Univ, Coll Med & Dent, Townsville, Qld, Australia; [Leicht, Anthony] James Cook Univ, Coll Healthcare Sci, Sport & Exercise Sci, Townsville, Qld, Australia; [Grier, Leesa Anne] James Cook Univ, Coll Med & Dent, Townsville, Qld, Australia								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001757864000001	44	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Li, Shuting; van der Leeuw, Quint; Brink, Michel; Lemmink, Koen A. P. M.; Kempe, Matthias								Recovery and performance responses to compression garments in short-track speed skaters during a 5-day training camp								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261445842				2026	Purpose: Research shows that compression garments can improve perceived recovery, especially for delayed-onset muscle soreness. However, most studies focus on acute effects. This study examined consecutive compression garment use during a short track speed skating camp. Methods: Twenty-two male short track speed skaters (17.3 +/- 1.2 years) were assigned to a compression stockings (CGs) group that wore CGs between sessions or a control (CON) group that followed the same training without compression. Daily measures included training load (session RPE), readiness to train, countermovement jump height, and sleep (hours and scores). The athlete recovery stress scale (ARSS) was assessed on Day 1 and Day 5. Linear mixed model compared group differences over time. Results: The ARSS showed interaction effects for mental performance capability (MPC) (beta = 3.806, p < 0.001) and physical performance capability (PPC) (beta = 2.222, p = 0.050), indicating different changes over time between groups. Post hoc results revealed larger reductions in MPC and PPC from Day 1 to Day 5 in the CGs group than in CON. In sensitivity analyses adjusting for cumulative training load, PPC interaction effect was attenuated, whereas MPC remained statistically significant. Training load, readiness to train, CMJh, and sleep quality did not show any significant differences. Conclusion: Five consecutive days of lower-body compression garment use did not provide clear evidence of improved subjective or objective recovery outcomes in this applied training camp setting; observed changes in perceived physical and mental performance capability should be interpreted cautiously given training-load variability and incomplete exposure data.		[Li, Shuting; van der Leeuw, Quint; Brink, Michel; Lemmink, Koen A. P. M.; Kempe, Matthias] Univ Groningen, Univ Med Ctr Groningen, Dept Human Movement Sci, Antonius Deusinglaan 1-FA23, NL-9713 AV Groningen, Netherlands; [Kempe, Matthias] Univ Vienna, Ctr Sport Sci & Univ Sports, Vienna, Austria; [Li, Shuting] Univ Groningen, Univ Med Ctr Groningen, Dept Human Movement Sci, Antonius Deusinglaan 1-FA23, NL-9713 AV Groningen, Netherlands								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001757860600001	44	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Bhardwaj, Dhanur; Feros, Simon A.; Luo, Wei; Hills, Dene; Kulshreshtha, Rahat; Chaudhary, Manuyash; Dwyer, Dan B.								An exploratory study to identify field-setting strategies and evaluate the impact of fielding tactics on team performance in T20 international cricket								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261446089				2026	Performance analysis in cricket has traditionally focused on bowling and batting, with limited emphasis on fielding performance in both research and practice. Currently, there is no evaluation of fielding tactics using fielder location data. To address this gap, the primary aim of the study was to identify and describe typical placement of fielders (field-settings) in T20 international cricket. The secondary aim was to determine the association between field-settings and measures of team performance. Fielder location data (x-y coordinates) were processed by calculating the angle and distance of each fielder to the centre of the cricket pitch. To address the primary aim, Hierarchical Density-Based Spatial Clustering of Applications with Noise (HDBSCAN) was applied to identify a set of discrete field-settings. For the secondary aim, regression analysis was conducted to evaluate the relationship between field-settings and measures of team performance. The study identified 21 commonly employed field-settings, some of which were significantly associated with varying rates of dot balls, boundaries and runs conceded. No significant association was found between any field-setting and wickets taken. This is the first study to analyse fielder location data to quantify cricket fielding performance. The identified field-settings support more informed strategic decision-making processes, including pre-match planning, on-field tactical adjustments, and opposition analysis. These insights may also contribute to improved team performance and enhance broadcast coverage through data-driven storytelling of fielding tactics.		[Bhardwaj, Dhanur; Feros, Simon A.; Dwyer, Dan B.] Deakin Univ, Sch Exercise & Nutr Sci, Geelong, Australia; [Bhardwaj, Dhanur; Feros, Simon A.; Dwyer, Dan B.] Deakin Univ, Inst Phys Act & Nutr, Ctr Sport Res, Geelong, Australia; [Luo, Wei] Deakin Univ, Sch Informat Technol, Melbourne, Australia; [Hills, Dene] Cricket Australia, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [Kulshreshtha, Rahat; Chaudhary, Manuyash] Quidich Innovat Labs, Mumbai, India; [Bhardwaj, Dhanur] Deakin Univ, Sch Exercise & Nutr Sci, Geelong, Australia; [Bhardwaj, Dhanur] Deakin Univ, Inst Phys Act & Nutr, Ctr Sport Res, Geelong, Australia								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001757529200001	48	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Bayonas-Ruiz, Adrian; Ocana-Garcia, Alvaro; Herrero-Atienzar, Jose Manuel; Lopez-Gullon, Jose Maria; Bonacasa, Barbara								Acute effects of elastic bands on the barbell kinematics and sticking region in the bench press exercise								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261446431				2026	This study analyzed the effect of elastic bands on the sticking region (SR) in the bench press within a velocity-based training approach. We sought to: (a) investigate the characteristics of the SR in sets to failure with three loads (60%, 70%, 80% 1RM) and three configurations using different contributions of elastic band tension to total resistance: 0%, 25%, and 50% (B0, B25, B50); (b) study the kinematic characteristics of the pre-sticking, sticking, and post-sticking regions; (c) analyze the differences regarding loads and bands contribution; and (d) study intersubject and intrasubject variability across loads and configurations. After determining the individual 1RM, 25 subjects completed 2 rounds of sets to failure against their 60, 70, and 80% 1RM with B0, B25, and B50 in the bench press. Elastic bands resulted in (p < 0.05 all) lower repetition times and increased SR duration across all loads. The SR occurred at a higher point of the range of motion with elastic bands. The first peak velocity increased with bands contribution (p < 0.05), while no differences were observed in the minimum and second peak velocities. It was concluded that adding elastic bands in the load configuration in the bench press alters barbell kinematics and SR characteristics.		[Bayonas-Ruiz, Adrian; Bonacasa, Barbara] Univ Murcia, Res Grp Phys Exercise & Human Performance, Murcia, Spain; [Bayonas-Ruiz, Adrian; Bonacasa, Barbara] Univ Murcia, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Physiol, Murcia, Spain; [Ocana-Garcia, Alvaro; Lopez-Gullon, Jose Maria] Univ Murcia, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Act & Sport, San Javier, Spain; [Ocana-Garcia, Alvaro; Herrero-Atienzar, Jose Manuel; Lopez-Gullon, Jose Maria] Weightlifting Federat Murcia, Murcia, Spain; [Ocana-Garcia, Alvaro; Lopez-Gullon, Jose Maria] Univ Murcia, Fac Sports Sci, UMUSport Res Grp, San Javier, Spain; [Bayonas-Ruiz, Adrian] Univ Murcia, Res Grp Phys Exercise & Human Performance, Murcia, Spain; [Bayonas-Ruiz, Adrian] Univ Murcia, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Physiol, Murcia, Spain								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001756683100001	33	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Zhang, Shaoliang; Li, Ming; Dong, Rui; Lorenzo, Alberto; Sansone, Pierpaolo; Goncalves, Bruno								Effects of contextual factors and fixture congestion on shooting efficiency and tactical behavior in the Chinese Basketball Association								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541251413748				2026	This study examines how contextual factors and fixture congestion affect shooting efficiency and tactical behavior in professional basketball. Data were analyzed from 982 games in the 2023-2024 regular season of the Chinese Basketball Association. Principal component analysis was performed on 68 technical-tactical variables, yielding 13 factors that accounted for 83.2% of the total variance. Linear mixed-effects models indicated that winning teams exhibited higher shooting efficiency (Effect size = 0.75, p < 0.001) and transition offense (ES = 0.61, p < 0.001) compared with losing teams. When facing stronger opponents, teams tend to perform more hand-off (ES = 0.25, p = 0.024) and pick-and-pop (ES = 0.27, p = 0.044), but fewer transitions (d = -0.51, p < 0.001) and lower cuts-creation-and-finishing efficiency (ES = -0.55, p < 0.001) compared with games against weaker opponents. Close games (<= 9-point margin) showed higher foul (ES = 0.35, p < 0.001) and defensive intensity (ES = 0.23, p = 0.023) compared with unbalanced and balanced games. Recovery periods (>= 3 days) have a negative impact on shooting efficiency (ES = -0.23, p = 0.008), isolation offense (ES = -0.23, p = 0.024), and defensive intensity (ES = -0.24, p = 0.023). These findings indicate that shooting efficiency and play type metrics in professional basketball are strongly affected by contextual factors, including game outcome, game location, opponent level, score line, and fixture congestion.		[Zhang, Shaoliang; Li, Ming] Tsinghua Univ, Div Sports Sci & Phys Educ, Athlet Performance & Data Sci Lab APDS, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Dong, Rui] South China Normal Univ, Sch Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Guangzhou, Peoples R China; [Lorenzo, Alberto] Univ Politecn Madrid, Fac Ciencias Act Fis & Deporte INEF, Madrid, Spain; [Sansone, Pierpaolo] Pegaso Telematic Univ, Dept Educ & Sport Sci, Naples, Italy; [Goncalves, Bruno] Univ Evora, Dept Desporto & Saude, Escola Saude & Desenvolvimento Humano, Evora, Portugal; [Goncalves, Bruno] Univ Evora, Comprehens Hlth Res Ctr, Evora, Portugal; [Goncalves, Bruno] Portuguese Football Federat, FPF Acad, Oeiras, Portugal; [Dong, Rui] South China Normal Univ, Sch Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Guangzhou, Peoples R China								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001756550500001	40	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Jin, Pengfei; Yang, Chen; Bankosz, Ziemowit; Sun, Bo; Kong, Qingtao; Ren, Jie								Kinetics of lower limb joints during forehand loops with alternating and full-foot support patterns in table tennis								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2026.2664127				2026	Footwork plays a crucial role in the stroke performance of athletes, yet its underlying foot support patterns remain underexplored. This study aimed to compare the biomechanical differences in lower limb joints between alternating foot support pattern (ASP) and full-foot support pattern (FSP) in table tennis footwork. Twelve national level I male table tennis athletes participated in a within-subject design, performing both foot support patterns. Compared with ASP, FSP showed significantly lower peak hip power generation (10.38 +/- 1.42 W/kg), lower ankle power generation and absorption, with reduced ankle rates of change. In addition, the relative contribution of ankle power generation (1.25 +/- 1.60%) decreased, leading to a higher combined contribution of the hip (93.62 +/- 3.76%) and ankle (4.96 +/- 4.46%) joints. The peak time of ankle power absorption was significantly delayed. By contrast, the relative contributions of hip and knee power generation were higher in FSP than in ASP. Overall, hip joint function serves as the primary source of positive work in both ASP and FSP. FSP reduced ankle joint contribution, with the hip and knee joints compensating for this limitation during the stroke. Athletes should actively adjust their movements according to the characteristics of the foot support pattern.		[Jin, Pengfei; Kong, Qingtao] Shanghai Ocean Univ, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Yang, Chen] Southwest Jiaotong Univ, LEEDS Joint Sch, SWJTL, Chengdu, Peoples R China; [Yang, Chen] Southwest Jiaotong Univ, Coll Sports & Hlth, Chengdu, Peoples R China; [Bankosz, Ziemowit] Wroclaw Univ Hlth & Sport Sci, Div Sports Didact, Wroclaw, Poland; [Sun, Bo] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Athlet Performance, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Ren, Jie] Shanghai Univ Sport, China Table Tennis Coll, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Ren, Jie] Shanghai Univ Sport, China Table Tennis Coll, Shanghai, Peoples R China								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001756804800001	44	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Gray, Luke; Coppack, Russell J.; Barker-Davies, Robert; Cassidy, Robyn P.; Bennett, Alexander N.; Caplan, Nick; Atkinson, Gavin; Bradshaw, Lauren; Hughes, Luke; Ladlow, Peter								The effects of high-pressure versus low-pressure blood flow restriction resistance exercise in individuals with lower limb musculoskeletal injuries and persistent pain: a randomised controlled trial								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				79						101920	10.1016/j.ptsp.2026.101920			MAY 2026	2026	Objectives: Compare the efficacy and acceptability of low load blood flow restriction (BFR) using two different limb occlusion pressures (LOP) on pain and function in individuals with lower-limb musculoskeletal injury (MSKI) and associated persistent pain. Design: Randomised controlled trial within a military residential rehabilitation setting. Participants: Twenty-eight individuals (N = 21 male; N = 7 female) with lower-limb MSKI were randomly allocated into: 1) BFR-RE with 80% LOP (BFR80), or 2) BFR-RE with 40% LOP (BFR40). Both groups completed 7x BFR-RE sessions during 5-days of residential rehabilitation at 20% 1-repetition maximum. Main outcome measures: The primary outcome measure was the Brief Pain Inventory (BPI). Secondary outcomes include injury-specific outcomes, pain pressure threshold (PPT) and lower-limb muscle strength assessment. All reported outcomes reflect changes in scores. Results: BPI 'worst' displayed a time & times; group interaction (p = .013), driven by higher pain in BFR80 from pre-to post-intervention (standardised mean difference [SMD] = 1.532, p = .006). There was a significant time & times; group interaction for BPI 'severity' (p = .022), driven by significant between-group differences at T3 (BFR80-BFR40: SMD = 1.305, p = .015). PPTs improved within-session and over time. Conclusion: Both pressures demonstrated cumulative exercise-induced hypoalgesia via rising PPTs. BFR80 reported increased 'worst' pain score. Lower LOP may better preserve training volume and exercise tolerability.		[Gray, Luke; Caplan, Nick; Hughes, Luke] Northumbria Univ, Dept Sport Exercise & Rehabil, Newcastle, England; [Gray, Luke; Coppack, Russell J.; Barker-Davies, Robert; Cassidy, Robyn P.; Bennett, Alexander N.; Ladlow, Peter] Def Med Rehabil Ctr, Acad Dept Mil Rehabil, Stanford Hall, Loughborough, England; [Coppack, Russell J.; Cassidy, Robyn P.; Ladlow, Peter] Univ Bath, Dept Hlth, Bath, England; [Barker-Davies, Robert] Loughborough Univ, Sch Sport Exercise & Hlth Sci, Loughborough, England; [Bennett, Alexander N.] Imperial Coll London, Natl Heart & Lung Inst, Fac Med, London, England; [Atkinson, Gavin; Bradshaw, Lauren] Def Med Rehabil Ctr, Stanford Hall, Loughborough, England; [Hughes, Luke] Northumbria Univ, Dept Sport Exercise & Rehabil, Newcastle, England; [Ladlow, Peter] Def Med Rehabil Ctr, Acad Dept Mil Rehabil, Stanford Hall, Loughborough, England								1							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001759487600001	45	Article; Article		
J	Koruklu, Kemal Faruk; Karkucak, Murat; Kilic, Gamze; Capkin, Erhan								Subacromial bursitis is associated with short-term response to ultrasound-guided corticosteroid injection in rotator cuff disorders								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE											10.1080/00913847.2026.2666842				2026	Objective Rotator cuff disorders (RCD) are among the most common causes of shoulder pain and functional limitation in clinical practice. Ultrasound (US)-guided subacromial corticosteroid injections are frequently used as a conservative treatment option for symptom relief in these patients. This study aimed to investigate the impact of subacromial bursitis on treatment outcomes following these injections. Methods This single-center observational study included 55 adult patients diagnosed with RCD who underwent US-guided subacromial corticosteroid injections. Patients were categorized into two groups based on the presence of subacromial bursitis, as determined by ultrasound imaging. The primary outcome was the change in pain intensity, measured by the Visual Analog Scale (VAS). Secondary outcomes included changes in shoulder function (Constant-Murley Score, CMS), disability (Shoulder Pain and Disability Index, SPADI), and shoulder range of motion (ROM). Comparative statistical analyses were conducted to assess pre- and post-injection changes between groups. Results Patients with subacromial bursitis showed significantly greater improvements in pain (VAS, p = 0.009), shoulder function (CMS, p < 0.001), disability (SPADI, p < 0.001), and ROM (p < 0.001) at the three-week follow-up compared to those without bursitis. Apart from age, no significant differences were observed in sex, symptom duration, or baseline clinical scores (VAS, CMS, SPADI, ROM) (all p > 0.05). Conclusion Subacromial bursitis may be associated with a better short-term response to US-guided corticosteroid injections in RCD patients and could serve as a potential predictive marker for favorable outcomes. However, further studies are needed to confirm these findings and assess long-term effects.		[Koruklu, Kemal Faruk; Karkucak, Murat; Kilic, Gamze; Capkin, Erhan] Karadeniz Tech Univ, Sch Med, Dept Phys Med & Rehabil, Trabzon, Turkiye; [Koruklu, Kemal Faruk] Karadeniz Tech Univ, Fac Med, Dept Phys Med & Rehabil, TR-61000 Trabzon, Turkiye; [Koruklu, Kemal Faruk] Karadeniz Tech Univ, Fac Med, Dept Phys Med & Rehabil, TR-61000 Trabzon, Turkiye								0							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001753236200001	29	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Ozsoy, Habib; Harput, Gulcan; Gokeler, Alli; Turhan, Egemen; Donmez, Gurhan; Tunay, Volga Bayrakci								Investigating internal and external focus of attention strategies during return-to-sport tests post- anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction (ACLR)								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				79						101916	10.1016/j.ptsp.2026.101916			MAY 2026	2026	Objective: To examine the acute effects of different attentional focus instructions (External Focus-EF, Internal Focus-IF, Neutral Focus-NF) on isokinetic strength, hop distances, and dynamic balance performance during clinical return-to-sport (RTS) assessments post- ACLR. Design/setting/patients: Cross-sectional study in a research laboratory. 35 participants (10F/25M, 24,3 +/- 7,77 years) who underwent primary unilateral ACLR with hamstring grafts (35.1 +/- 9.2 weeks post-surgery) were included. Main outcome measures: Participants performed isokinetic knee extension/flexion, Y-Balance Test (YBT), single/triple/crossover hops, and vertical jumps under randomized EF, IF, and NF conditions. Data were analysed using repeated measures ANOVA with Cohen's d effect sizes. Results: Compared to IF, EF increased injured-side quadriceps force production at 60 degrees/s (p < 0.05). On the uninjured side, EF significantly increased both hamstring and quadriceps force production at all speeds (p < 0.01; d = 0.30-0.37). In YBT, EF yielded higher posteromedial/posterolateral distances and composite scores versus IF and NF (p < 0.05; d = 0.42-0.63). EF produced greater distances in all single-leg hops on both sides versus IF (p < 0.05; d = 0.19-0.39). No significant differences occurred in vertical jumps. Conclusion: Attentional focus significantly influences performance post-ACLR. Using EF minimizes the inhibitory effects of IF, providing a more accurate representation of true functional limits. Clinicians should standardize EF guidelines to improve RTS decision-making based on maximum achievable performance.		[Ozsoy, Habib] Hacettepe Univ, Inst Hlth Sci, Ankara, Turkiye; [Harput, Gulcan] Ankara Medipol Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Physiotherapy & Rehabil, Ankara, Turkiye; [Gokeler, Alli] Paderborn Univ, Dept Exercise & Hlth, Exercise Sci & Neurosci Unit, Paderborn, Germany; [Turhan, Egemen] Hacettepe Univ, Fac Med, Dept Orthoped & Traumatol, Ankara, Turkiye; [Tunay, Volga Bayrakci] Hacettepe Univ, Fac Phys Therapy & Rehabil, Dept Physiotherapy & Rehabil Sports, Sports Physiotherapy, Ankara, Turkiye; [Ozsoy, Habib] Hacettepe Univ, Inst Hlth Sci, Ankara, Turkiye								1							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001737418000001	47	Article; Article		
J	Blanchard, Sam; Holden, Sinead; Dadd, Liam; Cumming, Sean; Williams, Sean								Reliability and validity of a wall slide test for monitoring growth-related lower limb pain in elite youth footballers								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				79						101913	10.1016/j.ptsp.2026.101913			MAY 2026	2026	Objectives: To develop and evaluate the reliability and validity of a novel Wall Slide Test for monitoring pain and knee flexion in youth athletes with growth-related lower-limb pathologies. Design: Reliability and prospective longitudinal cohort study. Setting: A Category 1 English Premier League football academy. Participants: Eighty-one male academy footballers aged 9-17 years with clinically diagnosed lower-limb pain conditions (including Osgood-Schlatter disease, patellofemoral joint pain, Sinding-Larsen-Johansson syndrome, and Sever's disease) and 45 asymptomatic controls. Main outcome measures: Pain at onset of loaded knee flexion (0-10 numerical rating scale), knee flexion range (cm), and a composite Wall Slide Test score. Reliability was assessed using intraclass correlation coefficients (ICC), standard error of measurement (SEM), and minimum detectable change (MDC). Validity was evaluated using mixed-effects models and receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis. Results: Within-day reliability was excellent (ICC = 0.96-0.97). MDC values indicated meaningful detectable change (pain 0.74 points; range 9.1 cm). The composite score demonstrated good to excellent discriminative ability between symptomatic and asymptomatic players (AUC = 0.81-0.94). Conclusions: The Wall Slide Test is a simple, reliable, and valid field-based tool for monitoring pain and functional knee flexion in youth athletes, supporting clinical decision-making and longitudinal management.		[Blanchard, Sam; Dadd, Liam; Cumming, Sean; Williams, Sean] Univ Bath, Dept Hlth, Bath, England; [Holden, Sinead] Univ Coll Dublin, Sch Publ Hlth Physiotherapy & Sports Sci, Dublin, Ireland; [Blanchard, Sam; Dadd, Liam] Manchester City Football Club, Manchester, England; [Holden, Sinead] Univ Coll Dublin, UCD Inst Sport & Hlth, Dublin, Ireland; [Blanchard, Sam] Univ Bath, Dept Hlth, Bath, England; [Blanchard, Sam] Manchester City Football Club, Manchester, England								1							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001728945600001	31	Article; Article		
J	Mourtzios, Christos; Gouvelis, Nick; Mourtziou, Maria-Anna								Point-ending outcome patterns in break-point situations in professional tennis: Effects of player position and court surface								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261442085				2026	This study examined the distribution of point-ending outcomes during break-point situations in professional men's tennis, with particular attention to differences between players in the serving and receiving positions and the potential influence of court surface. A total of 1475 break points were analyzed from 80 matches across the four Grand Slam tournaments. Each point was categorized according to its observable outcome, including aces, winners, forced errors, and opponent unforced errors. The analysis revealed significant differences in outcome distribution based on player position. Points won by serving players more frequently concluded with outcomes classified as aces, winners, or forced errors, whereas points won by receivers more commonly ended with unforced errors committed by the opponent. In contrast, statistical analysis did not reveal significant differences in the distribution of these point-ending outcomes across clay, grass, and hard court surfaces. These findings provide descriptive insights into how break points are resolved during high-pressure moments in elite tennis competition. However, it should be emphasized that the outcome classification reflects the final observable event of the rally and does not necessarily indicate the tactical intention or decision-making processes of the players. The results may assist coaches and performance analysts in understanding outcome patterns associated with critical points in professional tennis.		[Mourtzios, Christos; Gouvelis, Nick] Democritus Univ Thrace, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Komotini, Greece; [Mourtziou, Maria-Anna] Univ Piraeus, Dept Stat & Insurance Sci, Piraeus, Greece; [Mourtzios, Christos] Democritus Univ Thrace, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Komotini, Greece								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001753978300001	44	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Tsuzaki, Jenna; Kistamgari, Sandhya; Yang, Jingzhen; Sullivan, Lindsay; Rose, Dominique M.; Smith, Gary A.								Boxing injuries treated in United States emergency departments, 2000-2023								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE											10.1080/00913847.2026.2661569				2026	ObjectivesThe objective of this study is to investigate the characteristics and trends of boxing injuries treated in United States (US) emergency departments.MethodsUsing a retrospective cohort study design, data from the National Electronic Injury Surveillance System for 2000-2023 were analyzed, including estimated national boxing injury frequencies and annual population-based rates.ResultsAn estimated 362,869 boxing injuries were seen in US emergency departments from 2000 to 2023 with a 46.6% nonlinear increase in the boxing injury rate per one million US population from 4.38 in 2000 to 6.42 in 2023. Injuries were most common among males (87.5%) and individuals 18-24 years old (34.7%). Fractures were the most frequent diagnosis (24.6%), followed by soft tissue injuries (21.2%), and sprains/strains (20.9%). Concussions/closed head injuries accounted for 6.9% of injuries and were more likely to be admitted to the hospital (risk ratio [RR]: 4.37, 95% confidence interval [CI]: 2.54-7.51) than other diagnoses. Concussions/closed head injuries were also comparatively more common among younger age groups, accounting for 11.7% of injuries among children 6-11 years old. Most (86.6%) injuries occurred during practice or training. Competition-related injuries were more likely to involve the head/neck region (RR: 2.66, 95% CI: 2.25-3.15), be diagnosed as concussion/closed head injury (RR: 3.30, 95% CI: 2.58-4.22), or be admitted to the hospital (RR: 2.40, 95% CI: 1.43-4.03) than injuries occurring during practice or training. The most frequent injury mechanisms were 'struck opponent or object' (55.8%) and 'struck by opponent' (14.6%), while 'fall' was the mechanism associated with the highest proportion of hospital admissions (4.6%).ConclusionsTreatment of boxing injuries in US emergency departments is increasing, and concussions/closed head injuries disproportionately affect the vulnerable pediatric age group. The findings of this study improve our understanding of the epidemiology of boxing injuries, which will help inform targeted injury prevention efforts.		[Tsuzaki, Jenna; Kistamgari, Sandhya; Yang, Jingzhen; Sullivan, Lindsay; Rose, Dominique M.; Smith, Gary A.] Nationwide Childrens Hosp, Ctr Injury Res & Policy, Abigail Wexner Res Inst, 700 Childrens Dr, Columbus, OH 43205 USA; [Tsuzaki, Jenna] John A Burns Sch Med, Honolulu, HI USA; [Yang, Jingzhen; Smith, Gary A.] Ohio State Univ, Dept Pediat, Coll Med, Columbus, OH USA; [Sullivan, Lindsay] Ohio State Univ, Sch Hlth & Rehabil Sci, Columbus, OH USA; [Smith, Gary A.] Child Injury Prevent Alliance, Columbus, OH USA; [Smith, Gary A.] Nationwide Childrens Hosp, Ctr Injury Res & Policy, Abigail Wexner Res Inst, 700 Childrens Dr, Columbus, OH 43205 USA								0							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001751565900001	46	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Tinkey, Virginia; Edsall, Jason; Turner, Malaika; Barber Foss, Kim								Does wearing headgear influence risk compensation in adolescent female lacrosse?								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE											10.1080/00913847.2026.2661570				2026	Objective: The implementation of a headgear mandate in girls' lacrosse has encountered concerns that the use of headgear may lead to risk-taking behaviors, thereby causing more aggressive gameplay. This study aims to investigate perceptions of headgear use and the potential effect of headgear on risk compensation. Methods: Adolescent female aged 13-19 years participating on a high school or club girls' lacrosse team completed a Qualtrics survey consisting of questions about age, years of experience, player position, headgear use, the effect headgear would have on their gameplay and completed the Brief Sensation Seeking Scale (BSSS-8). Results: A total of 315 survey responses were collected. The average age of participants was 17 +/- 1.5 years, with 46% possessing 1-3 years of experience. A total of 61.9% of participants reported not wearing headgear. The average Brief Sensation Seeking Scale score across all participants was 2.96 +/- 0.86, with 3.14 +/- 0.89 in the headgear group and 2.84 +/- 0.82 in the non-headgear group, respectively. There was a statistically significant difference between headgear groups (p = 0.002) with a moderate effect size [t(311) = -3.08]. Significant positive correlations were found between headgear use and BSSS score (r = .17, p = .022, 95.00% CI = [.06, .27]), headgear use and age (r = .32, p < .001, 95.00% CI = [.22, .42]), and BSSS scores and age (r = .20, p = .002, 95.00% CI = [.10, .31]). Conclusions: A relationship between headgear use and BSSS scores was confirmed through multiple statistical approaches, with headgear wearers consistently showing higher risk perception scores than non-headgear wearers. This finding persisted even when controlling for other variables, suggesting that headgear usage may positively influence safety awareness among female lacrosse players.		[Tinkey, Virginia; Turner, Malaika; Barber Foss, Kim] Rocky Mt Univ Hlth Profess, Coll Hlth Sci, Provo, UT USA; [Edsall, Jason] Chatham Univ, Pittsburgh, PA USA; [Turner, Malaika] Go Be Great & Be Nothing Less LLC, Indiana, PA USA; [Barber Foss, Kim] Emory Sports Performance & Res Ctr SPARC, Flowery Branch, GA USA; [Barber Foss, Kim] Emory Sports Med Ctr, Atlanta, GA USA; [Barber Foss, Kim] Emory Univ, Sch Med, Dept Orthopaed, Atlanta, GA USA; [Barber Foss, Kim] Emory Univ, Emory Sports Performance & Res Ctr SPARC, 4450 Falcaon Pkwy, Flowery Branch, GA 30542 USA; [Barber Foss, Kim] Emory Univ, Emory Sports Performance & Res Ctr SPARC, 4450 Falcaon Pkwy, Flowery Branch, GA 30542 USA								0							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001748715200001	27	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Blessing, Jonna; Hilpisch, Celine; Kruger, Karsten; Raab, Markus; Wiese, Lena; Zentgraf, Karen; Mutz, Michael								Why do elite athletes consider leaving their sports? Longitudinal evidence on the development of dropout considerations								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261438700				2026	Dropout from elite sport poses a critical challenge to both athletes and sport systems, particularly when it occurs despite ongoing competitive potential. While performance development remains the system's central selection criterion, personal and environmental factors may also influence athletes' dropout considerations. This study investigated how dropout considerations evolve over time and which factors may contribute to these changes directly or indirectly via perceived performance development. Using a longitudinal design with two measurement points (T1 and T2), we analyzed survey responses from N = 235 German elite athletes (M = 17.5 years; 46.4% female). Change-score analyses indicated that dropout considerations were dynamic, with individual patterns reflecting both intensification and decline. Regression models predicted dropout considerations at T2 controlled for baseline dropout considerations at T1. Results showed that mental health problems, dissatisfaction with training conditions, and time and role conflicts were directly associated with increased dropout considerations, whereas burden of injury and social support showed indirect associations via perceived performance development. Motivation played a dual role, predicting dropout considerations both directly and indirectly via perceived performance development. These findings highlight key targets for preventive intervention and underscore the importance of addressing psychosocial and environmental factors alongside athletic performance.		[Blessing, Jonna; Hilpisch, Celine; Kruger, Karsten; Mutz, Michael] Justus Liebig Univ Giessen, Inst Sport Sci, Kugelberg 62, D-35394 Giessen, Germany; [Raab, Markus] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Psychol, Cologne, Germany; [Wiese, Lena] Goethe Univ Frankfurt, Inst Comp Sci, Frankfurt, Germany; [Zentgraf, Karen] Goethe Univ Frankfurt, Inst Sports Sci, Frankfurt, Germany; [Blessing, Jonna] Justus Liebig Univ Giessen, Inst Sport Sci, Kugelberg 62, D-35394 Giessen, Germany								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001748027700001	72	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Morais, Jorge E.; Marinho, Daniel A.; Sampaio, Tatiana; Oliveira, Joao P.; Vilas-Boas, Joao P.; Barbosa, Tiago M.								Can jerk cost and resultant mechanical impulse be helpful tools to discriminate swimming performance in young swimmers?								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2026.2663498				2026	The aim of this study was to compare swimming velocity, intra-cyclic variation of swimming velocity, jerk cost, and the resultant mechanical impulse in young swimmers of both sexes and by levels in the front crawl stroke. The sample included 60 young swimmers (30 boys aged 13.03 +/- 0.99 years, and 30 girls aged 12.43 +/- 0.90 years). Each sex group was split into two subgroups (best vs. poorest performers) of 15 swimmers each. Swimming velocity, during maximal 25 m efforts, revealed a 'sex' and 'level' main effect and interaction (p < 0.001). A 'sex' X 'level' interaction (F = 5.18, p = 0.027, eta(2) = 0.08) with a minimum effect size was noted for the jerk cost. Both the propulsive and resistive/braking impulses presented main effects for 'level' (positive: F = 15.65, p < 0.001, eta(2) = 0.22; negative: F = 12.41, p < 0.001, eta(2) = 0.18) with a minimum effect size. Overall, the jerk cost, as well as the intra-cyclic variation in swimming velocity as indicators of motion 'smoothness', did not significantly discriminate between the best and the poorest performers in maximal 25 m efforts. Conversely, the mechanical resultant impulse did. This indicates that the mechanical resultant impulse is a strong determinant of swimming velocity in young swimmers, at least in maximal 25 m efforts.		[Morais, Jorge E.; Barbosa, Tiago M.] Inst Politecn Braganca, Dept Sport Sci, Braganca, Portugal; [Morais, Jorge E.; Sampaio, Tatiana; Oliveira, Joao P.; Barbosa, Tiago M.] Inst Politecn Braganca, Res Ctr Act Living & Wellbeing LiveWell, Braganca, Portugal; [Marinho, Daniel A.; Sampaio, Tatiana; Oliveira, Joao P.] Univ Beira Interior, Dept Sport Sci, Covilha, Portugal; [Marinho, Daniel A.; Sampaio, Tatiana; Oliveira, Joao P.] Res Ctr Sports Hlth & Human Dev CIDESD, Covilha, Portugal; [Vilas-Boas, Joao P.] Univ Porto, Fac Sport, Ctr Res Educ Innovat & Intervent Sport, Porto, Portugal; [Vilas-Boas, Joao P.] Univ Porto, Fac Sport, Porto Biomech Lab, Porto, Portugal; [Morais, Jorge E.] Inst Politecn Braganca, Dept Sport Sci, Braganca, Portugal; [Morais, Jorge E.] Inst Politecn Braganca, Res Ctr Act Living & Wellbeing LiveWell, Braganca, Portugal								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001748712500001	44	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Bae, Wonyul; Yu, Ho Yeol; Naraine, Michael L.; Cho, Minseok								Strategic self-presentation and personal brand management of professional female athletes on Instagram								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP											10.1108/IJSMS-10-2025-0516				2026	PurposeThe purpose of this study is to extend the self-presentation theory by examining how different types of athlete-generated social media content, categorized as frontstage, backstage and hidden stage, affect fan engagement on social media platforms. Specifically, the study aims to identify how variations in content presentation and self-disclosure influence audience reactions such as likes, comments and shares.Design/methodology/approachWith the data collection in Instagram, this study utilized a qualitative approach to investigate the effects of frontstage, backstage and hidden-stage on the fan engagement rate of the WTA players and LPGA Tour players with their fans/followers. We selected the top 10 women's golfers and 10 tennis players. Content analysis was used to analyze and categorize 1,142 Instagram photos of the players from November 2024 to December 2024.FindingsQuantitative regression analyses showed that backstage content (Girl Next Door and Social Butterfly) yielded significantly higher engagement than frontstage posts, while Brand Ambassador posts were the least engaging. Interestingly, no significant differences in engagement effects were found between LPGA and WTA, though descriptive differences in posting preferences emerged.Originality/valueThis study offers a novel contribution by extending the self-presentation theory to the context of athlete social media communication, introducing the concept of a "hidden stage" as a new dimension beyond the traditional frontstage and backstage framework. By systematically comparing engagement patterns across these three stages, the research provides a deeper understanding of how athletes strategically manage their online personas to connect with fans. The study's findings advance theoretical perspectives on digital self-presentation while offering practical insights for athletes, sport marketers and communication professionals seeking to optimize fan engagement through authentic and strategically crafted social media content.		[Bae, Wonyul] Ithaca Coll, Ithaca, NY 14850 USA; [Yu, Ho Yeol] East Texas A&M, Commerce, TX USA; [Naraine, Michael L.] Brock Univ, St Catharines, ON, Canada; [Cho, Minseok] Springfield Coll, Springfield, MA USA; [Bae, Wonyul] Ithaca Coll, Ithaca, NY 14850 USA								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001744864700001	67	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Green, Sarah; Broadbent, David P.; Kittel, Aden; Bruce, Lyndell								Validation of the rating of perceived challenge in elite Australian Rules Football								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	4			2454	2461		10.1177/17479541261443577			AUG 2026	2026	The Rating of Perceived Challenge (RPC) provides coaches with a method of understanding athletes' perceptions of the technical and tactical demands of training. However, the scale has not yet been validated, which is necessary to support its future use in research and applied sports settings. The present study therefore aimed to evaluate the validity of the RPC in Australian Rules Football training. 22 professional Australian Rules Football players completed four training drills that differed in their physical, technical and tactical requirements (i.e., technical, game-based, physical, and rotation drills). Immediately after each drill, participants provided responses for the RPC, Rating of Perceived Exertion (RPE), and NASA Task Load Index (NASA-TLX). The RPC was able to differentiate between drills with differing technical and tactical demands, providing support for its construct validity. Discriminant validity was somewhat supported between the RPC and RPE, however, this was dependent on drill characteristics. Training drills with greater technical and/or tactical focuses showed convergent validity with subscales of the NASA-TLX such as temporal and mental demand. The RPC is valid for measuring challenge in sports training, allowing for researchers and practitioners to monitor and manage perceived challenge at an individualised level.		[Green, Sarah; Broadbent, David P.; Kittel, Aden; Bruce, Lyndell] Deakin Univ, Inst Phys Act & Nutr, Ctr Sport Res, Sch Exercise & Nutr Sci, Melbourne, Australia; [Green, Sarah] Deakin Univ, Inst Phys Act & Nutr, Ctr Sport Res, Melbourne, Vic, Australia								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001746039800001	31	Article; Article		
J	da Silva Duarte, Jonatas Deivyson Reis; Kons, Rafael Lima; Weldon, Anthony; Ouergui, Ibrahim; Gencoglu, Cebrail; Rydzik, Lukasz; Fett, Waleria Christiane Rezende; Fett, Carlos Alexandre								Strength and conditioning (S&C) practices and perceptions among kickboxing coaches and S&C coaches: A survey study								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261443624				2026	Objective This study investigated the strength and conditioning (S&C) practices and perspectives of sports coaches and S&C coaches working in kickboxing.Methods Forty-two participants, comprising 29 kickboxing and 13 S&C Brazilian coaches, completed a one-time anonymous online survey. The survey included six sections: (a) informed consent; (b) background information; (c) education, qualifications, and prescription; (d) opinions on S & C; (e) exercise selection; and (f) issues and improvements. Frequency analysis was used to report responses to fixed-choice questions, and thematic analysis was used for open-ended questions.Results Overall, S&C coaches were predominately responsible for S&C programmes (59%), which were deemed highly significant for kickboxing performance (78%). Strength development was predominantly based on multi-joint resistance exercises (e.g., deadlift), while speed and power were mainly developed through plyometric methods. Agility (e.g., agility ladder), flexibility (e.g., static stretching), and injury prevention (e.g., squats) strategies were also employed, whereas sparring was the preferred method for kickboxing-specific conditioning.Conclusion This study offers insights for current and developing kickboxing and S&C coaches to compare, clarify, or modify their S&C practices. Although broadly evidence-informed S&C practices are used within kickboxing, there may be areas for improvement, such as strength, agility, power, and speed. Therefore, wider education and accessible resources (e.g., evidence-informed social media) may further support the scientific underpinning of S&C practices used. Our study was conducted by Brazilian coaches and S&C coaches, therefore it does not encompass other countries.		[da Silva Duarte, Jonatas Deivyson Reis; Fett, Carlos Alexandre] Univ Fed Mato Grosso, Fac Med, Postgrad Program Hlth Sci, Cuiaba, Brazil; [da Silva Duarte, Jonatas Deivyson Reis] Fac INVEST Sci & Technol, Fac Phys Educ, Cuiaba, Brazil; [da Silva Duarte, Jonatas Deivyson Reis] Univ Estado Mato Grosso, Fac Phys Educ, Caceres, Brazil; [Kons, Rafael Lima] Univ Fed Bahia, Fac Educ, Dept Phys Educ, Salvador, Brazil; [Kons, Rafael Lima] Vrije Univ Brussel, Human Physiol & Sports Physiotherapy Res Grp MFYS, Brussels, Belgium; [Weldon, Anthony] Birmingham City Univ, Ctr Life & Sport Sci, Birmingham, England; [Weldon, Anthony] Aston Villa Fdn, Aston Villa Football Club, Birmingham, England; [Ouergui, Ibrahim] Univ Jendouba, High Inst Sports & Phys Educ Kef, Jendouba, Tunisia; [Gencoglu, Cebrail] Erzurum Tech Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Coaching Educ, Erzurum, Turkiye; [Rydzik, Lukasz] Univ Phys Educ Krakow, Inst Sport, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Krakow, Poland; [Fett, Waleria Christiane Rezende; Fett, Carlos Alexandre] Univ Fed Mato Grosso, Fac Phys Educ, Cuiaba, Brazil; [da Silva Duarte, Jonatas Deivyson Reis] Univ Fed Mato Grosso, Fac Med, Postgrad Program Hlth Sci, Av Fernando Correa da Costa 2-367, BR-78060900 Boa Esperanca, MT, Brazil								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001746036000001	102	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Tomas, Joao; Sousa, Honorato; Araujo, Duarte; Field, Adam; Ribeiro, Joao; Sarmento, Hugo								Crossing the line: Players perspectives on the leap from junior to senior football								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261441668				2026	The transition from junior to senior is widely regarded as one of the most critical and challenging stages in the long-term talent development pathway. Despite its career-defining nature, this phase remains underexplored, particularly regarding the challenges faced by promising young players. This study investigated players' perceptions of the junior-to-senior transition through semi-structured interviews with 20 Portuguese football players: (1) 10 classified as successful players (39.3 +/- 11.96 years; 13.4 +/- 7.02 professional seasons; 5.8 +/- 3.48 career clubs), and (2) 10 classified as unsuccessful (35.6 +/- 12.22 years; 2.5 +/- 2.59 professional seasons; 2.2 +/- 2.14 career clubs). Success was defined as completing at least one full season in a top-tier European professional league. Interview questions addressed priorities in sporting experiences, psychosocial factors, and physical attributes. Interviews were audio-recorded, transcribed, and thematically analysed. Findings suggest that in a performance-driven sporting context, successful transition requires ambition, discipline, resilience, and self-reflection. Outcomes are strongly shaped by coach-player relationships, competitive environment, and the perceived importance of academic education. Persistent barriers include unrealistic expectations, external pressures, limited playing time, and the overemphasis on biological maturation and relative age effects. The influence of close social networks was found to be ambivalent, highlighting the need for gradual, personalized transition approaches supported by conscious and adaptive leadership.		[Tomas, Joao; Sarmento, Hugo] Univ Coimbra, Fac Ciencias Desporto & Educ Fis, CIPER, Coimbra, Portugal; [Sousa, Honorato] Univ Madeira, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Funchal, Portugal; [Araujo, Duarte; Sarmento, Hugo] Univ Lisbon, Fac Motric Humana, CIPER, Lisbon, Portugal; [Field, Adam] Manchester Metropolitan Univ, Inst Sport, Dept Sport & Exercise Sci, Manchester, England; [Ribeiro, Joao] Univ Maia, Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev, CIDESD, Maia, Portugal; [Ribeiro, Joao] Sporting Clube Braga, Dept Performance Optimizat GOD, Braga, Portugal; [Sousa, Honorato] Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev CIDESD, P-5000801 Vila Real, Portugal; [Tomas, Joao] Univ Coimbra, Fac Ciencias Desporto & Educ Fis, CIPER, Coimbra, Portugal								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001744931000001	87	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Thomsen, Jakob Bak Sloth; Kilburn, Benjamin Alan; Sorensen, Jonas Winther; Lundbye-Jensen, Jesper								French Contrast Training Can Improve Sprint Performance in Elite Male Youth Soccer Players Compared to Conventional Strength Training								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT											10.1080/02701367.2026.2649327				2026	This study examined the effects of 14 weeks of French Contrast Training (FCT) versus conventional strength training on athletic performance and neuromuscular characteristics in elite youth soccer players. Twenty-three elite male U19 soccer players were assigned to either an FCT group (FCTG) or a control group (CON) that performed conventional strength training (CON). Subjects underwent pre-, mid-, and post-training testing, including a 30-meter sprint, Countermovement Jump, Broad Jump and Drop Jump. Dynamic strength was assessed as estimated one-repetition maximum Trap Bar Deadlift, whereas isometric strength was assessed as Maximal Voluntary Contraction force and Peak Rate of Force Development in Isometric Mid-Thigh Pull. The significance level was set at p <= .05. The FCTG demonstrated significant improvements in 5 m, 10 m, and 30 m sprint times (9.43%, 4.49%, and 2.58%, respectively), whereas the CON showed no improvement. A group & times; time interaction favored the FCTG at 5 m (p = .02) and 25 m (p = .03). Both groups showed comparable improvements in maximal dynamic strength, maximal isometric strength, Reactive Strength Index (RSI),) and drop jump height (DJH). However, greater improvements in the peak rate of force development were observed following FCT. French Contrast training elicited superior improvements in sprint performance and rate of force development compared with conventional strength training, despite similar gains in maximal strength. These findings suggest that French Contrast training may be an effective strategy for enhancing sprint-related performance in elite youth soccer players.		[Thomsen, Jakob Bak Sloth; Kilburn, Benjamin Alan; Sorensen, Jonas Winther; Lundbye-Jensen, Jesper] Univ Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark; [Thomsen, Jakob Bak Sloth; Sorensen, Jonas Winther] F C Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark; [Thomsen, Jakob Bak Sloth] Univ Copenhagen, Dept Nutr Exercise & Sports, Movement & Neurosci, Noerre 51, DK-2200 Copenhagen, Denmark								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001744452800001	51	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Wachholz, Felix; Schnitzer, Martin; Roth, Jannik; Winner, Hannes								From snow to screens: resident support for Olympic esports games in a former winter Olympic games host city								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				27	3			481	497		10.1108/IJSMS-10-2025-0518			JUL 17 2026	2026	Purpose Resident support for Olympic events has faced considerable challenges in recent years. The Olympic esports games (OEG) may be viewed as the International Olympic Committee's (IOC) strategic response to these challenges, aiming to engage younger audiences and adapt to the digitalization of sport. Drawing on Social Exchange Theory and Legitimacy Theory, this study investigates support for the OEG in Innsbruck (Austria) - a former winter Olympic games (WOG) host city - addressing how demographics, trust in institutions and attitudes toward WOG relate to support of this event format.Design/methodology/approach An on-site survey (n = 645) was conducted in Innsbruck between November and December 2024. To analyze resident support for hosting the OEG, regression models with binary outcomes were estimated. Independent variables included sociodemographic characteristics, interest in esports, whether esports should be Olympic, tourism-income, trust in government/IOC and support for WOG. Marginal effects were calculated to facilitate the interpretation of key independent variables.Findings Interest in esports was the most consistent predictor of support for hosting the OEG. Age and tourism-related income were also associated with higher levels of support, while women expressed slightly lower support than men.Originality/value The findings suggest that the OEG might support the IOC in engaging younger, esports-affine audiences and exploring new, more flexible event formats. Support is shaped by demographics and perceptions of esports legitimacy, highlighting the importance of inclusive communication and culturally sensitive designs. As empirical research on Olympic esports remains limited, further studies are needed to deepen the understanding of this emerging field.		[Wachholz, Felix; Schnitzer, Martin; Roth, Jannik] Univ Innsbruck, Dept Sport Sci, Innsbruck, Austria; [Winner, Hannes] Univ Salzburg, Dept Econ, Salzburg, Austria; [Wachholz, Felix] Univ Innsbruck, Dept Sport Sci, Innsbruck, Austria								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001743762800001	71	Article; Article		
J	Olmos, Marc; Caparros, Toni; Olmos, Victor; Sansone, Pierpaolo; Fernandez, Daniel; Casals, Marti								Identifying Weekly Physical and Physiological Profiles in Professional Basketball Using Heart Rate Variability and Training Load Clustering								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT											10.1080/02701367.2026.2653698				2026	This study applied an unsupervised machine-learning technique to characterize weekly physiological-load states in professional basketball players using autonomic (HRV), cardiovascular (SHRZ), and mechanical (Movement Load) parameters. Eleven male professional players (mean = 25.5 years, SD = 3.9 years) were monitored over 18 weeks. Weekly averages of heart rate variability (LnRMSSD), internal load (SHRZ), and external load (Movement Load) were computed and standardized within players (z-scores). K-means clustering algorithm was applied to zHRV, zSHRZ, and zML, with the number of clusters selected via elbow criterion and clustering quality using the silhouette coefficient. Repeated-measures correlations were used to quantify associations among variables. Three distinct profiles were identified (p < .001), with values reported as mean (SD): (1) High load-elevated HRV (zHRV = 0.66 (0.56); zSHRZ = 0.69 (0.58); zML = 0.71 (0.56)); (2) Low load-near-average HRV (zHRV = 0.15 (0.84); zSHRZ =-0.98 (0.73); zML = -1.01 (SD = 0.65)); (3) High load-reduced HRV (zHRV = -1.04 (0.64); zSHRZ = 0.33 (0.59); zML = 0.34 (0.63)). Profiles recurred across the season, and heatmap visualization showed substantial temporal and inter-individual variability. Repeated-measures correlations showed weak HRV-SHRZ (r = -0.18, 95% CI [-0.20,-0.05], p = .007) and HRV-ML (r = -0.06, 95% CI [-0.19, -0.07], p = .368) relationships, but a very large SHRZ-ML association (r = 0.87, 95% CI [-0.84,-0.90], p < .001). Unsupervised clustering offers a practical and data-driven framework to summarizing weekly physiological-load states in elite, potentially improving individualized load-management strategies. Future studies should investigate the extent to which these clustered profiles are associated with performance outcomes, fatigue markers, and injury risk.		[Olmos, Marc; Caparros, Toni; Casals, Marti] Univ Barcelona, Natl Inst Phys Educ Catalonia INEFC, Av Estadi,12-22 Sants Montju, Barcelona 08038, Spain; [Caparros, Toni] Univ Autonoma Barcelona, Sport Res Inst, Bellaterra, Barcelona, Spain; [Sansone, Pierpaolo] Pegaso Telematic Univ, Dept Educ & Sport Sci, Naples, Italy; [Fernandez, Daniel] Univ Politecn Catalunya BarcelonaTech UPC, Inst Res & Innovat Hlth IRIS, Barcelona, Spain; [Casals, Marti] Univ Vic Cent Univ Catalonia UV UCC, Fac Med, Sport & Phys Act Studies Ctr CEEAF, Barcelona, Spain; [Olmos, Marc] Univ Barcelona, Natl Inst Phys Educ Catalonia INEFC, Av Estadi,12-22 Sants Montju, Barcelona 08038, Spain								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001743350900001	37	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Bergmann, J.; Schmidt, M.; Jaitner, T.								Kinematic and electromyographic effects of different execution modalities during the Nordic Hamstring Exercise								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2026.2657898				2026	The Nordic Hamstring Exercise (NHE) is widely used for eccentric hamstring strengthening and injury prevention. This study examined how three criteria-based NHE execution modalities affect break-point angle (BPA) and hamstring muscle activation. It was hypothesised that increased execution quality results in greater muscular activation and more extended BPAs. Forty-two participants completed two familiarisation sessions before performing three NHE modalities using partner fixation, rigid heel fixation, and a training device providing rigid heel fixation, controlled kneeling height and knee positioning. Kinematic data determined BPAs, while surface electromyographic (EMG) signals recorded activity of M. biceps femoris and M. semitendinosus. Friedman tests with Wilcoxon post-hoc comparisons assessed differences. Significant BPA differences occurred (p < 0.01), with the training device producing the most extended knee positions (56.0 degrees +/- 13.8), compared with partner (74.8 degrees +/- 9.4) and rigid heel fixation (74.3 degrees +/- 11.1). Root mean square and integrated EMG values were significantly higher in the training device modality than partner fixation and rigid heel fixation (p < 0.01). The more extended knee positioning was accompanied by altered thigh and shank orientation. Thesefindings indicate that NHE execution modality substantially influences movement mechanics and neuromuscular demand. For standardised testing and training, rigid heel fixation combined with controlled kneeling height and consistent setup conditions is recommended.		[Bergmann, J.; Schmidt, M.; Jaitner, T.] TU Dortmund Univ, Inst Sport & Sports Sci, Dortmund, Germany; [Bergmann, J.] TU Dortmund Univ, Inst Sport & Sports Sci, Dortmund, Germany								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001743355200001	39	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Kittel, Aden; Larkin, Paul; Elsworthy, Nathan; Cunningham, Ian								Beyond the whistle: Attributes and developmental experiences which shape sporting officials								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261440454				2026	Sport officials' (i.e., referees, umpires, judges) talent identification and development remain under-examined relative to athletes. Existing pathway models provide limited guidance on the capabilities that distinguish officiating talent across contexts. This study examined officials' perceptions of the importance of (i) attributes underpinning effective officiating and (ii) sport background and environmental factors contributing to talent development, and aimed to understand whether perceptions differed by gender, sport, and performance level. Active officials (239 males, 33 females) from soccer (n = 106), cricket (n = 71), rugby union (n = 47), and hockey (n = 48) completed an online survey to rank 13 officiating attributes and eight development factors, separately. Rankings were analysed using Kruskal-Wallis tests with Dunn post hoc comparisons revealing making decisions under pressure, communication skills, and knowledge of the rules were the most important attributes. The highest-ranked development factors were number of games officiated, formal training, and time interacting with other officials. Attribute rankings were largely consistent across gender, sport, and performance levels, indicating substantial cross-context agreement. Notable differences emerged for selected items, including females prioritising understanding players more highly than males, sport-specific variation across communication, knowledge of the rules, personality factors, goal setting, teamwork, and games officiated. Finally, community-level officials placed greater emphasis on prior playing experience. These findings highlight shared foundations of officiating expertise alongside nuanced, context-specific priorities that should inform targeted, evidence-based officiating talent identification and development systems.		[Kittel, Aden] Deakin Univ, Ctr Sport Res Inst Phys Act & Nutr, Sch Exercise & Nutr Sci, Melbourne, Australia; [Kittel, Aden; Larkin, Paul] Victoria Univ, Inst Hlth & Sport, Melbourne, Australia; [Larkin, Paul] Maribyrnong Sports Acad, MSA Res Ctr, Melbourne, Australia; [Elsworthy, Nathan] Cent Queensland Univ, Sch Hlth Med & Appl Sci, Rockhampton, Australia; [Elsworthy, Nathan] Cent Queensland Univ, SPORT Res Cluster, Rockhampton, Australia; [Cunningham, Ian] Edinburgh Napier Univ, Sch Appl Sci, Edinburgh, Scotland; [Kittel, Aden] Deakin Univ Geelong, Inst Phys Act & Nutr, Ctr Sport Res, Melbourne, Vic, Australia								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001742976000001	50	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Hwang, Yongjin; Koesters, Todd C.; Ballouli, Khalid								Comparative study of US Olympic fandom: multi-level attachment dynamics across summer and winter games								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				27	3			498	521		10.1108/IJSMS-07-2025-0334			JUL 17 2026	2026	PurposeThis study examines how different forms of Olympic attachments (sport, national team, and athlete) interact to shape overall Olympic attachment, with particular attention to differences between Summer and Winter Olympic fans in the United States. While sport consumption motivation is included as an antecedent, the study primarily investigates how multi-level attachments operate within a mega-event context.Design/methodology/approachSurvey data were collected from 1,007 US-based Olympic fans recruited via Prolific (565 Summer fans; 442 Winter fans). Using partial least squares structural equation modeling (PLS-SEM), the study tested a higher-order model in which motivation predicts multiple forms of attachment. Mediation effects were assessed through sport, athlete, and Team USA attachments, while Olympic type (Summer vs. Winter) was examined as a moderator.FindingsMotivation significantly predicted attachment to the Olympics and Team USA, but not to specific sports or athletes. Team USA attachment mediated the relationship between motivation and Olympic attachment. Among attachment pathways, Team USA attachment strengthened Olympic attachment, whereas sport attachment unexpectedly weakened it, and athlete attachment was non-significant overall. Moderation tests revealed distinct seasonal patterns: Summer fans showed stronger pathways from motivation to Olympic and Team USA attachment, whereas Winter fans relied more on sport, athlete, and Team USA attachments to build Olympic connection.Originality/valueBy comparing Summer and Winter Olympic fandom, this study introduces a multi-level attachment framework in a mega-event context. It extends identity-based theories of sport consumption and provides practical insights for stakeholders seeking to strengthen Winter Olympic attachment through targeted marketing and sponsorship strategies.		[Hwang, Yongjin; Koesters, Todd C.; Ballouli, Khalid] Univ South Carolina, Coll Hospitality Retail & Sport Management, Columbia, SC 29208 USA; [Ballouli, Khalid] Univ South Carolina, Coll Hospitality Retail & Sport Management, Columbia, SC 29208 USA								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001741576700001	64	Article; Article		
J	Murray, Andrew; Lever, Jonathon R.								Talent development environment questionnaire: Validation and exploratory analysis across international basketball academies								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261440448				2026	The Talent Development Environment Questionnaire (TDEQ) is widely used to assess athlete perceptions of developmental environments, yet validation across diverse populations remains limited. This study evaluated the psychometric properties of an adapted 19-item TDEQ across four international basketball academies over six years of annual assessment. Respondents included 197 athletes (295 responses) and 53 staff (129 responses) completing annual assessments. Confirmatory factor analysis supported the hypothesized 5-factor structure (CFI = 0.93; RMSEA = 0.06). The adapted TDEQ demonstrated strong internal consistency (alpha = 0.89) and maintained temporal stability across six years (alpha = 0.84-0.91) despite 83% annual cohort turnover. Reliability remained consistent across athlete and staff respondents (Delta alpha = 0.01) and across locations (alpha = 0.83-0.91). Observed geographic variation emerged alongside observed stakeholder differences in HQP and SN (staff means exceeded athlete means by 0.27-0.39 points), but these comparisons were treated as descriptive because scalar invariance was not supported. Mixed-effects analyses indicated no clear linear year-on-year trend after accounting for respondent clustering, stakeholder group, and academy location; sensitivity analyses suggested year-to-year fluctuation rather than a consistent linear trend. These findings support the adapted TDEQ as a reliable monitoring tool within this international academy network while highlighting the need for cautious interpretation of cross-group comparisons and temporal patterns in transient populations.		[Murray, Andrew] Natl Basketball Assoc, Basketball Strategy & Growth, New York, NY USA; [Lever, Jonathon R.] Univ Notre Dame, Sports Performance, Notre Dame, IN USA; [Murray, Andrew] Natl Basketball Assoc New York, 645 5th Ave, New York, NY 10022 USA								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001742448900001	31	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Randolph, Mark								Poor joy, or an apology for the left-handed approach to coaching								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	3			1675	1685		10.1177/17479541261433960			JUN 2026	2026	We live in a world of data driven decision-making. Consequently, today's coaches gather data to make statistically sound decisions. But two truths are told: numbers tell a truth, but not the entire truth. The English poet Leigh Hunt once wrote: "There are two worlds: the world we can measure with line and rule, and the world that we feel with our hearts and imagination." I don't deny the world of "line and rule." It has its place. But I do intend to fight for the world of our "hearts and imagination," that fuzzy, abstract, mysterious realm, the realm of curiosity, creativity, and faith in absolute striving, not a delusional dependence on miracles, but an openness to the possibility of the miraculous. This realm has been taking a beating. Analytics, sabermetrics, and accountability rule the results-oriented institutional world. And yet, strangely, the world of results and data, line and rule, cannot seem to fathom the human quotient behind the performance numbers. This essay meditates upon a career of guiding student-athletes towards a better end and through a better means-simply "Joy." This essay addresses these shortfalls, and makes the case for a more plenary and poetic approach to coaching high school athletics.		[Randolph, Mark] Greenhills Sch, Ann Arbor, MI 48105 USA; [Randolph, Mark] Greenhills Sch, Ann Arbor, MI 48105 USA								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001740637600001	15	Article; Article		
J	Merz, Christian; Gorges, Tom; Thelen, Matthias; Naundorf, Falk; Supej, Matej; Kersting, Uwe G.								Go big or spin fast? Biomechanical deterministic models for snowboard halfpipe tricks performed at the Beijing 2022 Olympic winter games men's final								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	3			1863	1871		10.1177/17479541261439267			JUN 2026	2026	In the Olympic snowboard halfpipe discipline, rotation is the key indicator of trick difficulty encouraging riders to perform multiple tricks involving a high amount of rotation in their runs. Therefore, this study explored the predictive capacity of angular velocity and airtime on the amount of rotation using deterministic models based on the performance parameters of the Men's Final at the Beijing 2022 Olympic Winter Games. IMU data and video recordings were used to determine the biomechanical performance parameters of 122 tricks performed by 12 riders with random intercept models being employed to develop the aforementioned deterministic models. The ratio between angular velocity and airtime at frontside/switch frontside was greater than 4:1, and at backside/switch backside it was close to 5:1. The coefficient of determination overall indicated a high level of fit, providing significant standardised estimates for all performance parameters investigated. The results showed that, regardless of the direction of rotation, angular velocity was the key performance indicator for increasing the amount of rotation, while airtime showed a comparably small influence. These results are important for coaches and riders in teaching and learning new skills as they indicate to focus more on rotation initiation than increasing jump height.		[Merz, Christian; Gorges, Tom; Naundorf, Falk] Inst Appl Training Sci, Dept Team, Combat & Acrobat Sports, Marschnerstr 29, D-04109 Leipzig, Germany; [Merz, Christian; Thelen, Matthias; Kersting, Uwe G.] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Biomech & Orthopaed, D-50933 Cologne, Germany; [Supej, Matej] Univ Ljubljana, Fac Sport, Ljubljana 1000, Slovenia; [Kersting, Uwe G.] Aalborg Univ, Dept Hlth Sci & Technol, DK-9220 Aalborg, Denmark; [Kersting, Uwe G.] Mid Sweden Univ, Dept Hlth Sci, SE-85170 Sundsvall, Sweden; [Merz, Christian] Inst Appl Training Sci, Dept Team, Combat & Acrobat Sports, Marschnerstr 29, D-04109 Leipzig, Germany; [Merz, Christian] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Biomech & Orthopaed, D-50933 Cologne, Germany								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001740623200001	33	Article; Article		
J	Lara-Bercial, Sergio; Lyle, John W.								Pablo Laso's anatomy of success: A case study of a professional serial winning coach								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	3			1630	1641		10.1177/17479541261441809			JUN 2026	2026	Top level professional sport is subject to enhanced levels of scrutiny due to its significant social and financial impact. Understanding the factors and interrelationships that lead to success, and especially the role sport coaches play, has become a priority in research and practice. This case study builds on research into Serial Winning Coaches1,9,10 to describe the practice of Pablo Laso, a European professional serial winning basketball coach. Using primary and secondary data, the study aimed to identify those factors that appeared to be necessary for success, and how Coach Laso navigated the tensions between agency and structure, and the relative contributions of resources, context, and execution. We have identified those factors that appear, in this example, to be necessary for success, but we are still only able to speculate about the combination of conditions that are 'jointly sufficient' to bring about success. The conclusion might be that there is a complex and elaborate mix of conviction, expertise, serendipity, purposeful endeavour, and resources that enables rather than determines success. Nonetheless, Coach Laso's anatomy of success may serve as a catalyst for other coaches' reflection and development and to guide further research.		[Lara-Bercial, Sergio; Lyle, John W.] Leeds Beckett Univ, Ctr Sport Coaching, Leeds, England; [Lara-Bercial, Sergio] Int Council Coaching Excellence, Leeds, England; [Lara-Bercial, Sergio] Leeds Beckett Univ, Headingley Campus, Leeds LS6 3QQ, England								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001740631800001	44	Article; Article		
J	Kim, Juhyeong; Kwon, Sungho; Kim, Taiwoo								Attributional style, psychological consequences, and resilience in high school baseball players under perceived failure								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261439723				2026	This study examined the effects of high school baseball players' attributional style on resilience through the mediating role of psychological consequences, based on Weiner's Attribution Model. A total of 382 athletes registered with the Korea Baseball Softball Association participated in the survey, and data from 370 valid responses were analyzed. The hypothesized mediation model was tested after preliminary descriptive, validity, and correlation analyses. The results showed that locus of causality (beta = .106, p < .05) and internal control (beta = .251, p < .001) had significant positive effects on resilience. Among the psychological consequences, pride (beta = .365, p < .001) and expectancy (beta = .324, p < .001) positively predicted resilience, whereas shame negatively predicted resilience (beta = -.197, p < .001). In addition, pride significantly mediated the relationship between locus of causality and resilience (indirect effect beta = -.095). Specifically, attributing failure to more external causes was associated with higher pride, which in turn was linked to greater resilience. These findings suggest that internal attribution may promote resilience by fostering responsibility and perceived control, but may also lower pride following failure. Therefore, attribution-based interventions may be useful for helping athletes maintain self-worth while encouraging adaptive responsibility for failure in competitive sport settings.		[Kim, Juhyeong; Kwon, Sungho; Kim, Taiwoo] Seoul Natl Univ, Coll Educ, Dept Phys Educ, Seoul, South Korea; [Kwon, Sungho] 1 Gwanak Ro, Seoul, South Korea								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001740754900001	30	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Prieto-Lage, Ivan; Reguera-Lopez-de-la-Osa, Xoana; Silva-Pinto, Antonio Jose; Gutierrez-Santiago, Alfonso								Technical-tactical behaviour and rally structure in professional men's doubles pickleball: A combined descriptive, predictive, and sequential analysis								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261436986				2026	Despite the recent expansion of pickleball, empirical evidence on the technical-tactical demands of men's doubles play remains scarce. This study provides the first integrated analysis of match structure and point-resolution mechanisms in elite men's doubles pickleball. A total of 2344 points from fifteen semifinal and final matches of the 2023 PPA Tour were analysed using observational methodology. All actions were coded with LINCE PLUS, and descriptive and inferential analyses were conducted in SPSS. Variables included rally length, striking zone, finishing zone, and final stroke. A CHAID decision-tree model was used to identify multivariate predictors of point outcome, and THEME 6 Edu was applied to detect recurrent T-patterns. Receiving pairs won 55.5% of rallies, consistent with a limited serve advantage characteristic of men's doubles play. Very long rallies (>= 13 shots) were the most frequent (35.2%). Short and medium rallies favoured receivers, whereas long and very long rallies favoured servers. Most decisive shots were executed in zone 2, which acted as the primary operational area for rally control. Groundstrokes were closely associated with unforced errors, while volleys (especially in medium and long rallies) showed greater winning potential. The CHAID model identified rally length as the strongest predictor of point outcome, followed by striking and finishing zones. T-pattern analysis revealed recurrent temporal structures characterised by alternations between deep and mid-court zones and terminal volley actions. Men's doubles pickleball exhibits a distinctive internal logic based on cooperative spatial management, prolonged rallies, and incremental serving consolidation. These insights provide objective references for optimising training design and tactical preparation in doubles play.		[Prieto-Lage, Ivan; Reguera-Lopez-de-la-Osa, Xoana; Silva-Pinto, Antonio Jose; Gutierrez-Santiago, Alfonso] Univ Vigo, Fac Educ & Sport, Observat Res Grp, Pontevedra 36005, Spain; [Prieto-Lage, Ivan; Reguera-Lopez-de-la-Osa, Xoana] Univ Vigo, Fac Educ & Sport, Observat Res Grp, Pontevedra 36005, Spain								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001740630300001	51	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Wang, Lele; Ning, Jie; Li, Pengchao								Automatic evaluation framework of tennis tactical indicators based on fine-grained recognition driven by artificial intelligence								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261441418				2026	In professional tennis, converting broadcast footage into tactical intelligence remains limited by labor-intensive manual logging and subjective observation. Automated methods still struggle with fine-grained stroke perception because of fast ball motion, occlusion, and broadcast variability. We present a video-based tactical intelligence pipeline that uses an ensemble YOLO detector (YOLOv8s + YOLOv10n) with weighted boxes fusion to identify six near-side semantic targets: tennis ball, player, forehand, backhand, ready position, and serve. From these detections, nine coach-interpretable indicators are derived across five tactical dimensions: hitting-type distribution, time-series rhythm, state transitions, serve initiative, and fatigue dynamics. The detector was trained on 14,892 annotated images from 360 competitive points across three court surfaces and achieved a test mAP@0.5 of 0.863, outperforming the individual YOLO models (+7.5%), Faster R-CNN, and DETR. Rally-level analysis of 36 ATP players from the 2025 Rome Masters, Shanghai Masters, and Wimbledon Championships, grouped into elite, mid-level, and lower-ranked tiers (n = 12 per tier), revealed consistent tier differentiation across all indicators (all p < 0.001, Cohen's d > 2.5) and clear surface-related variation in stroke selection and serve initiative. Expert validation showed strong agreement between AI-derived and coach-annotated indicators (ICC > 0.85). The main contribution is the integrated detection-to-indicator framework. The ensemble detector is a practical engineering solution rather than a methodological advance. Current limitations include near-side-only analysis, single-view broadcast input, and a moderately sized dataset.		[Wang, Lele] Guihzou Univ, Sch Phys Educ, Guiyang, Peoples R China; [Ning, Jie] Zhoukou Normal Univ, Phys Educ Coll, Zhoukou, Peoples R China; [Li, Pengchao] Beijing Sport Univ, Sch Competit Sports, Beijing 100084, Peoples R China; [Li, Pengchao] Beijing Sport Univ, Sch Competit Sports, Beijing 100084, Peoples R China								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001740743900001	30	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Dennison, Louis; Constantino, Oscar Lorenzo; Moresi, Mark; Duthie, Grant								Assessment of spatiotemporal sprinting kinematics in the field: A comparison of a commercial 2-D markerless motion capture software using artificial intelligence with OptoJump™								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261436928				2026	Field-based assessment of spatiotemporal kinematics including contact time (CT), flight time (FT), step time (ST), step length (SL), step frequency (SF), and step velocity (SV) is essential for evaluating sprint performance, yet existing methods are often inaccessible for coaches. The aim of this study was to examine the agreement between a markerless motion capture (MMC) system (VueMotion) and a field-based system (OptoJump (TM)) for measuring spatiotemporal kinematics. Seventeen participants performed a total of 75 flying 20 m sprints in which spatiotemporal parameters were simultaneously obtained using OptoJump (TM) and VueMotion via a consumer smartphone (4k, 60 fps). Individual step analysis (n = 748) showed minimal bias (<= 0.3%) for ST (bias: 0.000 s; LoA: +/- 0.015 s), SF (bias: -0.01 Hz; LoA: +/- 0.27 Hz), SL (bias: 0.2 cm; LoA: +/- 10.1 cm), and SV (bias: -0.03 m & centerdot;s-1; LoA: +/- 0.61 m & centerdot;s-1). Although overall temporal measurement was accurate, sub-component metrics demonstrated that the MMC system overestimated CT (-2.9%; bias: -0.003 s; LoA: +/- 0.015 s) and underestimated FT (3.4%; bias: 0.004 s; LoA: +/- 0.015 s). While systematic bias remained consistent for trial-averaged (20 m) parameters (n = 75), limits of agreement narrowed substantially: avg-CT (LoA: +/- 0.006 s), avg-FT (LoA: +/- 0.006 s), avg-ST (LoA: +/- 0.002 s), avg-SL (LoA: +/- 1.5 cm), avg-SF (LoA: +/- 0.04 Hz), and avg-SV (LoA: +/- 0.11 m & centerdot;s-1). Currently, assessments of single-step metrics should be interpreted with caution due to random error; however, our findings indicate that average metrics provide a viable approach for monocular MMC spatiotemporal analysis using consumer-grade hardware.		[Dennison, Louis; Moresi, Mark; Duthie, Grant] Australian Catholic Univ, Sch Behav & Hlth Sci, Sydney, Australia; [Dennison, Louis; Duthie, Grant] Australian Catholic Univ, Sports Performance Recovery Injury & New Technol R, Sydney, Australia; [Constantino, Oscar Lorenzo] Western Sydney Univ, Sch Hlth Sci, Sydney, Australia; [Duthie, Grant] Australian Catholic Univ, Sch Behav & Hlth Sci, Sydney, Australia; [Duthie, Grant] Australian Catholic Univ, Sports Performance Recovery Injury & New Technol R, Sydney, Australia								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001740630400001	42	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Khan, Haneef A.; Baig, Najeeb; Rasheed, Ilyaas; Khan, Amina								Match schedule variability, not volume, is associated with severe muscle injury in elite football								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				54	4			322	326		10.1080/00913847.2026.2657258			JUL 4 2026	2026	Aims and objectives To determine whether week-to-week schedule variability predicts severe muscle injury in elite football when controlling for absolute workload, and to evaluate this relationship using a time-varying exposure model. Materials and methods We conducted a retrospective cohort study of 30,097 player-seasons from Europe's top five leagues between 2012 and 2024. Match schedule variability was calculated using a 4-week rolling window for every week of the season. Match schedule variability, defined as the Coefficient of Variation (CV) of weekly match minutes over the same 4-week rolling window; this term is used consistently throughout to refer to this operational measure. We used logistic regression with clustered standard errors to estimate the odds of severe muscle injury (>28 days absence) in the subsequent week, controlling for mean workload, age, position, and time-varying injury history. Results Analysis of total volume revealed that rolling match workload was not significantly associated with injury risk (Adjusted OR 1.06, 95% CI 0.99-1.15, p = 0.102). However, schedule variability emerged as an independent risk factor. In multivariable models adjusting for rolling workload, age, position, and prior injury history, a one-standard-deviation increase in 4-week Schedule Variability (CV) was associated with increased odds of severe muscle injury (Adjusted OR 1.08, 95% CI 1.01-1.16, p = 0.02). Conclusion Schedule instability is associated with increased injury risk. Injury prevention strategies should consider prioritizing load smoothing over simple volume restriction.		[Khan, Haneef A.; Baig, Najeeb; Rasheed, Ilyaas] Univ Michigan, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Ann Arbor, MI USA; [Khan, Haneef A.] Univ South Carolina, Sch Med, Dept Med, Columbia, SC USA; [Khan, Amina] Thomas Jefferson Univ, Dept Med, Sidney Kimmel Med Coll, Philadelphia, PA USA; [Khan, Haneef A.] Univ Michigan, 2260 Hayward St, Ann Arbor, MI 48109 USA; [Khan, Haneef A.] Univ Michigan, 2260 Hayward St, Ann Arbor, MI 48109 USA								0							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001737885300001	17	Article; Article		
J	Farrell, Sheree N.; McGibbon, Katie E.; Sayers, Mark; Buhmann, Rob								Understanding coach, athlete and performance support staff knowledge and opinions of tapering practices in swimming: A survey study								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261436984				2026	Tapering, a progressive reduction in training load before competition, is essential for optimising swimming performance, where outcomes can be determined by milliseconds. This study surveyed and described the self-reported knowledge, opinions and practices of swimming coaches, athletes and performance support staff regarding tapering, and examined the extent to which reported practices aligned with existing scientific recommendations. A total of 93 participants (coaches: n = 28, athletes: n = 38, support staff: n = 27) completed an online questionnaire on changes in training volume, intensity, frequency, and duration during a taper. Results showed consensus on reducing training volume (mean reduction: 39-49%) while maintaining training frequency. However, taper duration preferences varied, with coaches and athletes preferring shorter tapers (6-10 days), while support staff preferred evidence-based durations (similar to 14 days). Regarding training intensity, support staff advocated for maintaining or increasing intensity to preserve adaptations, while many coaches preferred intensity reductions to manage fatigue. Only 55% of athletes reported receiving individualised taper plans, highlighting a potential gap between theory and practice. These findings highlight the need for improved collaboration and education among coaches, athletes, and support staff. Additionally, future research should prioritise examining the efficacy of individualised tapering strategies informed by athlete-specific physiological and psychological factors in enhancing swimming performance.		[Farrell, Sheree N.; McGibbon, Katie E.; Sayers, Mark; Buhmann, Rob] Univ Sunshine Coast, Sch Hlth, Sippy Downs, Qld, Australia; [Farrell, Sheree N.; McGibbon, Katie E.] Queensland Acad Sport, Nathan, Qld, Australia; [Farrell, Sheree N.] Univ Sunshine Coast, Sch Hlth, Sippy Downs, Qld, Australia								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001736914900001	44	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Fouquaert, Thibault; De Clerck, Tom; Willem, Annick								Understanding determinants of virtual cycling adoption among voluntary sports clubs								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP											10.1108/IJSMS-10-2025-0527				2026	PurposeThis study investigates the determinants of virtual cycling adoption by voluntary sports clubs, considering how determinants differ across and discriminate between adopter categories.Design/methodology/approachUsing an integrated innovation model that bridges innovation diffusion theory and organisational innovativeness research, we surveyed Flemish (Belgium) sport clubs (n = 70). Clubs were clustered into adopter categories based on a composite innovativeness index (attitude, evaluation and adoption-intention). MANOVA and discriminant analysis assessed differences in determinants and their predictive power.FindingsNot resources but human capabilities, such as perceptions about innovation attributes and managerial capacity, emerged as the strongest predictors of clubs' innovativeness, followed by human-related capacity (e.g., sufficient skilled volunteers). Compared to non-human-related and environmental capacity, these determinants significantly differ and discriminate between innovative, intermediate and lagging clubs.Research limitations/implicationsFindings support integrated models, highlighting the need to study both innovation-specific and organisation-specific determinants. Results suggest that adoption can be people-driven rather than resource-driven, which should receive greater attention in future sport marketing and management research.Practical implicationsInsights inform advice on knowledge management for federations and targeted marketing strategies for virtual cycling providers by identifying which perceptions and organisational factors to emphasise in their approach.Originality/valueThis study introduces club-level adoption insights of virtual cycling using an integrated approach that simultaneously considers organisation-specific and innovation-specific determinants. It also extends sport management literature by applying adopter categorisation to voluntary clubs using a composite index to measure clubs' innovativeness.		[Fouquaert, Thibault; De Clerck, Tom; Willem, Annick] Univ Ghent, Dept Movement & Sports Sci, Ghent, Belgium; [Fouquaert, Thibault] Univ Ghent, Dept Movement & Sports Sci, Ghent, Belgium								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001735663300001	36	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Karaduman, Emre; Asli, Samet; Coban, Ahmet; Tolgun, Batuhan; Bostanci, Ozgur								The Effect of Plyometric-Based PAPE Warm-Up Vs. Traditional Warm-Up on Vertical Jump, Reaction Time, Change of Direction, Cognitive Skills, and Serve Speed Performance in Mid- and Post-Pubertal Athletes: A Randomized Crossover Study								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT											10.1080/02701367.2026.2648060				2026	The aim of this study was to examine the effects of plyometric-based post-activation performance enhancement (PAPE) and traditional (TRA) warm-ups on athletes' athletic performance and cognitive outcomes. Seventeen trained female volleyball players (7 mid-pubertal and 10 post-pubertal) participated a randomized crossover trial. The measurements included countermovement jump (CMJ), squat jump (SJ), reaction time, change of directions, cognitive skills, and serve speed performances. The results showed that both PAPE and TRA warm-up interventions significantly improved vertical jump (CMJ and SJ) and reaction time (p < .050 for all), with no differences in cognitive skills, CODs, or serve speed (p < .050 for all). PAPE warm-up improved CMJ slightly more in mid-pubertal athletes compared to post-pubertal athletes (difference [95% CI] = 3.36 [2.52 to 4.19], ES = 0.86, triangle 11% vs 1.93 [0.74 to 3.13], ES = 0.39, triangle 6%, respectively), with no any interaction effect (p > .050). However, PAPE warm-up markedly improved SJ in mid-pubertal athletes compared to post-pubertal athletes (difference [95% CI] = 6.98 [6.54 to 7.43], ES = 0.92, triangle 24% vs 2.71 [2.19 to 3.23], ES = 0.87, triangle 9%, respectively), with a significant time & times;warm-up & times;maturity interaction effect (p = .028). Furthermore, PAPE and TRA warm-ups showed similar effects on the reaction time in mid-pubertal and post-pubertal athletes (p > .050). In conclusion, a plyometric-based jump warm-up intervention may have beneficial effects on vertical jump performance by triggering the PAPE mechanism. However, maturity may affect the potential of complex explosive movements, particularly the SJ, following such an intervention.		[Karaduman, Emre; Asli, Samet; Coban, Ahmet; Tolgun, Batuhan; Bostanci, Ozgur] Univ Ondokuz Mayis, Atakum, Samsun, Turkiye; [Karaduman, Emre] Univ Ondokuz Mayis, Fac Sport Sci, TR-55270 Samsun, Turkiye								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001736073600001	58	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Esposito, Francesco; Bertollo, Maurizio; Pompa, Dario; Angonese, Maria; Beato, Marco								Classifying the invisible game: Towards a structured taxonomy of off-the-ball behaviors in football								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	3			1686	1692		10.1177/17479541261427153			JUN 2026	2026	Off-the-ball behaviors play a decisive role in football performance, underpinning space creation, defensive balance, and team coordination. However, current research remains conceptually fragmented, with inconsistent terminology and limited comparability across studies. This Perspectives article addresses these limitations by introducing a structured conceptual-terminological framework for the systematic classification of off-the-ball behaviors. The proposed framework is descriptive in nature and organized along four complementary analytical axes: Possession-Function, distinguishing tactical intent and possession context; Unit of Analysis, specifying the observational scale from individual players to team dynamics; Performance Dimension, capturing physical, tactical, or perceptual-intentional characteristics of behavior; Behavioral Type, differentiating positioning, maneuvering, and high-intensity runs. Each behavior is encoded through a taxonomic string combining these four dimensions, enabling precise classification and cross-study comparison. The analytical utility of the framework is demonstrated through the reclassification of recent empirical studies, illustrating how distinct analytical focuses correspond to specific taxonomic combinations. By establishing clearer analytical boundaries and a shared language, this framework supports cumulative knowledge building and facilitates interdisciplinary dialogue among researchers from different backgrounds, including sport science, data science, and behavioral research. It also provides a foundation for translating the "invisible" dimension of football into quantifiable and interpretable tactical performance indicators.		[Esposito, Francesco; Bertollo, Maurizio; Pompa, Dario] Univ G Annunzio Chieti Pescara, Dept Med & Aging Sci, Chieti, Italy; [Esposito, Francesco; Angonese, Maria] SportAnalytics, Milan, Italy; [Bertollo, Maurizio; Pompa, Dario] Univ G Annunzio Chieti Pescara, BIND Behav Imaging & Neural Dynam Ctr, Chieti, Italy; [Beato, Marco] Univ Suffolk, Sch Hlth & Sports Sci, Ipswich, England; [Esposito, Francesco] Univ G Annunzio Chieti Pescara, Dept Med & Aging Sci, Chieti, Italy; [Esposito, Francesco] SportAnalytics, Milan, Italy								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001735812500001	21	Article; Article		
J	Jhang, You-Cheng; Chen, Jui-Fu; Chang, Chen-Wei								Evaluating a spherical video-based virtual reality flipped learning approach (SVVR-FL) for enhancing students' situational tactical decision-making, critical thinking, and problem-solving in basketball								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261436978				2026	In basketball education, the development of decision-making ability is a critical determinant of performance, complementing students' acquisition of technical skills and tactical knowledge. Accordingly, enhancing learners' comprehension of diverse offensive and defensive strategies constitutes a central pedagogical aim in cultivating decision-making competence. Prior research suggests that flipped learning (FL) environments afford students expanded opportunities for basketball practice. Pre-class videos and digital resources, in particular, are frequently used to support the self-regulated learning of technical skills and tactical concepts. However, students' decision-making in dynamic game situations remains constrained by the fixed visual perspectives typically provided in conventional instructional videos. Furthermore, heavy reliance on instructor guidance and feedback during in-class activities may limit the development of learners' independent analytical reasoning and autonomous judgment. Collectively, these constraints may hinder the progression of higher-order cognitive abilities, including problem-solving, critical thinking, and decision-making. To address these challenges, the present study introduces a Spherical Video-Based Virtual Reality Flipped Learning approach (SVVR-FL), which is designed to enable students to observe game scenarios from multiple viewpoints and complete corresponding problem-solving tasks. Within this framework, students engage in group-based identification of basketball strategies to enhance their situational tactical decision-making competence. A quasi-experimental design was employed, involving 70 university students enrolled in two basketball courses. Participants were assigned to two groups: 33 students in the SVVR-FL group and 37 students in the traditional FL group. Interview data indicated that the SVVR-FL approach yielded broader pedagogical benefits, which included not only cognitive gains but also enhanced collaborative engagement and deeper situational tactical reasoning. While the traditional FL approach was similarly linked to improvements in learning outcomes, its impact appeared more narrowly focused on individual-level cognitive development. Furthermore, quantitative analyses demonstrated that the SVVR-FL approach significantly outperformed traditional FL in enhancing students' situational tactical decision-making performance. No significant effects were observed, however, on critical thinking or problem-solving dispositions.		[Jhang, You-Cheng] Natl Ilan Univ, Sports Educ Ctr, Yilan City, Yilan County, Taiwan; [Jhang, You-Cheng; Chen, Jui-Fu] Natl Taiwan Normal Univ, Dept Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Taipei City, Taiwan; [Chang, Chen-Wei] Natl Taiwan Normal Univ, Dept Adult & Continuing Educ, Taipei City, Taiwan; [Chang, Chen-Wei] Natl Taiwan Normal Univ, Dept Adult & Continuing Educ, Taipei City, Taiwan								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001735809700001	64	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Serpell, Benjamin G.; Cook, Christian J.								Factors that distinguish effective from inefficient warm-ups in high-level surfers factors that make warm-ups effective								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	4			2444	2453		10.1177/17479541261437897			AUG 2026	2026	Well-structured warm-ups are associated with improvement in performance across many sports, including surfing. Muscle warmth, amongst many other factors, likely contributes to this improvement. Using a randomized crossover design with seventeen participants (n = 14 males; n = 3 females) we found body temperature increase and changes in stress hormone (i.e., testosterone increase similar to 6%, p < 0.05) following a specific warm-up was associated with a significant (blindly judged) score improvement in surf performance. However, achieving similar body temperature changes utilizing a different warmup, though similar in duration, did not result in changes in testosterone concentration and resulted in no appreciable performance gain. We conclude that warm-up is holistic in its relationship to performance outcome including contribution from components such hormonal change, body warmth, and possibly even athlete's perception and likes. Failing to account for all of these reduces a warm-up's potential to improve performance; making it less effective.		[Serpell, Benjamin G.] Richmond Tigers Football Club, Richmond, Australia; [Serpell, Benjamin G.; Cook, Christian J.] Univ New England, Sch Sci & Technol, Armidale, Australia; [Serpell, Benjamin G.] Univ Canberra Res Inst Sport & Exercise UCRISE, Canberra, Australia; [Cook, Christian J.] Imperial Coll, Hamlyn Ctr, London, England; [Serpell, Benjamin G.] Univ New England, Armidale, NSW 2351, Australia								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001735591700001	44	Article; Article		
J	Dunn, Rachel C.; Hutt, Kirsten; Curtis, Rylan; Tamminen, Katherine A.								Coaches' perspectives on menstruation for female adolescent athletes								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	3			1346	1357		10.1177/17479541261435571			JUN 2026	2026	Adolescent females in Canada begin menstruation around age 12, and the onset of menstruation is associated with decreased participation in sport and physical activity. Coaches play an important role in supporting athletes' participation in sport, and adolescent athletes who report greater coach support also report greater intention to stay in sport. While previous research on menstruation in sport has focused on older female athletes and athletes in aesthetic sports (e.g., dance), few studies have examined coaches' perspectives of coaching adolescent female athletes who are navigating menstruation. A qualitative approach was taken; thirteen coaches (female n = 7; male n = 6) participated in semi-structured qualitative interviews, and data were analyzed using reflexive thematic analysis. Key themes included the ways coaches discussed menstruation (medicalising, optimising, and avoiding altogether); coaches' beliefs about girls in sport (periods hindering performance, and concerns over sexualizing adolescent athletes); and positioning female coaches as the experts when discussing menstruation with athletes. Male coaches demonstrated discomfort in discussing menstruation by using euphemisms and drew on stereotypes of menstruation. For coaches, medicalizing menstruation was a useful entry point into discussions with athletes, although this reflected a pathologizing of menstruation. The overall results reflect the concerns of coaches regarding the topic of menstruation, and the results shed light on broader narratives regarding women in sport that influence the ways in which coaches navigate these issues.		[Dunn, Rachel C.; Hutt, Kirsten; Curtis, Rylan; Tamminen, Katherine A.] Univ Toronto, 55 Harbord St, Toronto, ON M5S 2W6, Canada; [Dunn, Rachel C.] Univ Toronto, 55 Harbord St, Toronto, ON M5S 2W6, Canada								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001735063100001	49	Article; Article		
J	Yang, Jiahao; Comfort, Paul; Kendall, Kristina L.; Haff, G. Gregory								An exploratory survey of the application of accentuated eccentric loading in resistance training								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261434081				2026	The aim of this study was to investigate how accentuated eccentric loading (AEL) is currently utilised by strength and conditioning (S&C) coaches. The survey consisted of closed- and open-ended questions divided into 3 key areas of focus (1-Coach and Athlete Demographic, 2-Perceptions of AEL, and 3-Program Design) was administered to S&C coaches. Response frequencies for sections 1 and 2 were calculated as percentages of total respondents, whereas frequencies in Section 3 were calculated relative to respondents who selected each specific training purpose. A thematic analysis was conducted for the responses to an open-ended question. A total of 38 respondents met the inclusion criteria and completed the survey. Twenty-three (age: 38.9 +/- 13.6 years) reported having previously prescribed AEL with resistance training, while 15 (age: 34.7 +/- 8.0 years) did not. Respondents most frequently learned about AEL from S&C experts (83%), academic journals (83%), and S&C colleagues (65%). Limited equipment access (60%), supervision issues associated with large athlete cohorts (33%), inappropriate athlete populations (33%), and lack of full knowledge about this training method (33%) were identified as the main barriers preventing non-users from integrating AEL into their resistance training programs. AEL was reported to be primarily applied to athletes involved in team sports (65%), weightlifting/powerlifting (30%), and track and field (22%), most of whom were younger than 30 years and had substantial resistance training experience. AEL was most frequently implemented with the back squat (83%) with a primary goal of enhancing maximal strength (84%) and/or power output (74%). Further practical and evidence-based information on how to safely and effectively apply AEL for different training purposes is warranted to guide practice.		[Yang, Jiahao; Comfort, Paul; Kendall, Kristina L.; Haff, G. Gregory] Edith Cowan Univ, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, Strength & Power Res Grp, Bldg 21,Room 501,270 Joondalup Dr, Joondalup, WA 6027, Australia; [Comfort, Paul; Haff, G. Gregory] Univ Salford, Directorate Psychol & Sport, Salford, England; [Yang, Jiahao] Edith Cowan Univ, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, Strength & Power Res Grp, Bldg 21,Room 501,270 Joondalup Dr, Joondalup, WA 6027, Australia								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001734971600001	61	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Morin, Jean-Philippe; Parent, Andree-Anne; Tremblay, Mathieu								Individualized heart rate variability on a strength 6-week training program. A remote-coaching effectiveness study								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261436950				2026	Exercise physiologists, kinesiologists and coaches prescribe strength training to diverse populations with individual goals. Data-driven coaching is especially crucial with the rise of remote coaching, particularly in rural areas, to compensate for lack of direct supervision. Heart rate variability (HRV) has become a useful tool for measuring the effects of training stress on the autonomic nervous system and is easily accessible via wearables. The purpose of this study was to assess the effectiveness of using HRV to adjust strength training frequency in a remote coaching setting led by a group of recreationally trained participants. The participants completed a 6-week strength training program with pre- and post-lab testing (strength, body composition, blood pressure). HRV was collected daily by the participants, and an HRV threshold was calculated to determine whether they should train each day. Training data and a daily questionnaire were also completed and submitted to the leading researcher. The main findings showed that adherence to the protocol was high compared to other interventions in the general population and that the protocol led to significant strength gains without significantly impacting autonomic modulation. This study contributes to preliminary evidence supporting the effectiveness of HRV-guided strength training in remote settings.		[Morin, Jean-Philippe; Parent, Andree-Anne; Tremblay, Mathieu] Univ Quebec Rimouski, Dept Hlth Sci, Rimouski, PQ, Canada; [Tremblay, Mathieu] Univ Quebec Rimouski UQAR, 300 Alleedes Ursulines,CP 3300 Succ, Rimouski, PQ G5L 3A1, Canada								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001735006300001	58	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Weissblueth, Eyal; Hirsh, Alon; Linder, Ifat								Human expertise and artificial intelligence in coaching: A comparative analysis of feedback for triathlon front crawl technique								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261435125				2026	Recent advances in AI create new opportunities for performance analysis in endurance sports. This study compared expert human coaching with GPT-4o in biomechanical analysis and technique feedback for triathlon front crawl. Fifteen certified coaches and an AI agent analysed a 25-frame video of an intermediate triathlete completing one stroke cycle. Both identified errors, prioritised corrections, and suggested drills to address them. Responses were thematically analysed and mapped to four stroke phases: glide, pull, push, and recovery, within a structured feedback framework based on a deterministic biomechanical model. Human coaches emphasised holistic aspects (such as breathing, alignment, and rhythm), while AI provided detailed biomechanical cues (e.g., early vertical forearm, stroke length) and drill-specific recommendations. Agreement was strongest on high-impact errors in the catch phase. Findings suggest that AI can complement coaching by enhancing error detection, providing structured feedback, and reducing cognitive load, while preserving the coach's role in contextual adaptation and individualised strategies.		[Weissblueth, Eyal; Hirsh, Alon] Tel Hai Univ Kiryat Shmona Galilee, Phys Educ Dept, Qiryat Shemona, Israel; [Linder, Ifat] Tel Hai Univ Kiryat Shmona Galilee, Dept Educ, Qiryat Shemona, Israel; [Weissblueth, Eyal] Tel Hai Univ Kiryat Shmona Galilee, Phys Educ Dept, Qiryat Shemona, Israel								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001733902800001	20	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Henderson, Pip; Vickery, Will; Pill, Shane								Coaches' definitions of success in sport: A rapid review								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	3			1693	1702		10.1177/17479541261432364			JUN 2026	2026	This rapid review examined how sport coaches conceptualise success, a term widely invoked yet rarely defined within coaching practice and policy. The review synthesised findings from 17 articles published between 2000 and 2024 that explicitly included coaches' voices. Using a deductive coding framework encompassing performance, sport growth, personal growth, emotional growth, and coach-oriented outcomes, the analysis revealed success as being a multivalent, contextually-driven, dynamic and complex concept. Personal development of athletes and winning were frequently cited as ways in which coaches defined success, but no article cited winning as the only definition of success. The breadth of ways in which coaches understood what defined success presents the potential for tension within sporting contexts, especially if coaches' definitions do not align with those of other stakeholders. This underscores the importance of establishing shared definitions of success within sporting environments to reduce tensions among stakeholders and promote aligned, holistic approaches to sport experiences.		[Henderson, Pip] Flinders Univ S Australia, Coll Med & Publ Hlth, Adelaide, SA, Australia; [Vickery, Will] Deakin Univ, Ctr Sport Res, Burwood, Vic, Australia; [Vickery, Will] Australian Sports Commiss, Coaching & Officiating, Sport & Community Capabil, Melbourne, Australia; [Pill, Shane] Flinders Univ S Australia, Coll Human Sci & Culture, Adelaide, SA, Australia; [Henderson, Pip] Flinders Univ S Australia, Coll Med & Publ Hlth, Adelaide, SA, Australia								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001733904300001	48	Article; Article		
J	Crespo, Miguel; Kist, Cesar; Martinez-Gallego, Rafael								Expert perspectives on managing high-performance tennis pathways in South America: A qualitative analysis								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	4			2316	2327		10.1177/17479541261436804			AUG 2026	2026	The management of tennis development programs in emerging regions is key to the sport's globalization and sustainability. Despite South America's rich tennis tradition, governance, structural, and socioeconomic challenges hinder progress. This article presents a qualitative analysis of expert insights from head coaches, technical directors, and development officers across national federations. Strengths such as cultural passion, favourable climate, and tradition are contrasted with weaknesses like limited court access, gender inequality, and fragmented systems. The strategic roles of national federations, the regional body, and the ITF are examined in shaping development pathways. Findings suggest improving management strategies, integrating coach and parent education, enhancing competition structures, and leveraging technology. These insights offer practical recommendations for coaches, policymakers, and federations. By drawing parallels with performance monitoring literature in other sports, the analysis situates South American tennis within broader discussions on sport science and talent development.		[Crespo, Miguel; Kist, Cesar] Int Tennis Federat, Tennis Dev Dept, Bank Lane, London SW15 5XZ, England; [Kist, Cesar] Confederac Sudamer Tenis, Ave Santisimo Sacramento, Asuncion, Paraguay; [Martinez-Gallego, Rafael] Univ Valencia, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Valencia, Spain; [Crespo, Miguel] Int Tennis Federat, Tennis Dev Dept, Bank Lane, London SW15 5XZ, England								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001733906600001	69	Article; Article		
J	Mazzaufo, Claudio; Beretta, Mattia; Matarazzo, Andrea; Pavei, Gaspare; Serrano, Stefano; La Torre, Antonio; Boccia, Gennaro								Specific Quintuple: An On-Field Test to Predict Triple Jump Performance with High Accuracy								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				102				195	202		10.5114/jhk/205292			APR 2026	2026	The triple jump is a demanding discipline in athletics, requiring physical capacity to cope with vertical ground reaction force peaks 8-15 times body weight when executed with a full run-up. This study investigated the potential of a specific drill executed with a shortened run up, the "specific quintuple", as a predictor of triple jump performance. A sample of 68 expert athletes participated in a total of218 testing sessions, with measurements taken during both practice sessions and competitions. Linear hierarchical regression analysis revealed a strong correlation between performance of the specific quintuple drill and the triple jump competition performance (R2 = 0.96). This correlation remained significant across different age categories and sexes. The specific quintuple drill offers a safer and more gradual approach to skill acquisition, potentially mitigating the risk of overloading and injury, particularly among youth athletes. The study provides practical insights for coaches and athletes, offering regression equations for predicting triple jump performance based on specific quintuple performance. Overall, the specific quintuple drill emerges as a valuable tool for assessing and improving triple jump performance while prioritizing athletes' safety.		[Mazzaufo, Claudio; Beretta, Mattia; Matarazzo, Andrea; Pavei, Gaspare; Serrano, Stefano; La Torre, Antonio; Boccia, Gennaro] Italian Athlet Federat FIDAL, Rome, Italy; [Mazzaufo, Claudio] Univ LAquila, Dept Biotechnol & Appl Clin Sci, Laquila, Italy; [Pavei, Gaspare] Univ Milan, Dept Pathophysiol & Transplantat, Milan, Italy; [La Torre, Antonio] Univ Milan, Dept Biomed Sci Hlth, Milan, Italy; [Boccia, Gennaro] Univ Turin, Dept Clin & Biol Sci, Turin, Italy; [Pavei, Gaspare] Italian Athlet Federat FIDAL, Rome, Italy; [Pavei, Gaspare] Univ Milan, Dept Pathophysiol & Transplantat, Milan, Italy								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001783702600015	23	Article; Article		
J	Gomez-Landero, Luis Arturo; Santos-Rosa, Francisco Javier; Reguera-Lopez-de-la-Osa, Xoana; Cervello, Eduardo								Do Different Interdependencies within a Sport Affect the Perceived Motivational Climate, Use of Spontaneous Self-Talk, Positivity or Precompetitive Anxiety?								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				102				227	240		10.5114/jhk/204776			APR 2026	2026	Comparative studies often find conflicting psychological differences between individual and team sports, likely due to mixing sports with different levels of interdependence and structures. To address this issue, this study focused on the same sport, comparing individual rhythmic (IR) and team rhythmic (TR) gymnastics modalities. The study aimed to assess differences in the perceived motivational climate, self-talk, positivity, and precompetitive anxiety between these two groups, and to identify psychological predictors of precompetitive anxiety. Seventy-six senior female gymnasts were divided into IR (n = 41, aged 15.41 +/- 2.47 years) and TR (n = 35, aged 15.22 +/- 2.59 years) groups. Results showed that TR gymnasts perceived a greater ego-involved climate, indicating higher intra-team rivalry, and used more positive selftalk in training, leading to better confidence and concentration. However, no significant differences in overall positivity were found. IR gymnasts increased their use of positive self-talk from training to competition, whereas TR gymnasts remained consistent. Self-confidence was lower in IR gymnasts, though both groups had similar levels of somatic and cognitive anxiety. While IR gymnasts showed more associations with competitive anxiety, the predictors of anxiety were the same for both groups: negative self-talk during training and positivity. In conclusion, the study highlights the role of positivity and self-talk in managing competitive anxiety, with a focus on controlling team rivalry in TR gymnastics and promoting self-confidence and positive self-talk in IR gymnastics specially during training. The study recommends grouping sports by interdependence and structures to better understand psychological differences between individual and team sports.		[Gomez-Landero, Luis Arturo] Univ Pablo Olavide, Phys Performance & Sports Res Ctr, Dept Sports & Comp Sci, Seville, Spain; [Santos-Rosa, Francisco Javier; Reguera-Lopez-de-la-Osa, Xoana] Univ Vigo, Dept Special Didact, Educ Phys Act & Hlth Res Grp, Vigo, Spain; [Cervello, Eduardo] Univ Miguel Hernandez Elche, Sport Res Ctr, Dept Sport Sci, Elche, Spain; [Gomez-Landero, Luis Arturo] Univ Pablo Olavide, Phys Performance & Sports Res Ctr, Dept Sports & Comp Sci, Seville, Spain								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001783702600018	40	Article; Article		
J	Pareja-Blanco, Fernando; Loturco, Irineu								Level of Effort: A Practical Approach for Resistance Training Monitoring and Prescription								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				102				259	266		10.5114/jhk/221229			APR 2026	2026	Accurate prescription and monitoring of resistance training (RT) load require ensuring that the external load prescribed by the coach reflects the internal demands experienced by the athlete. Although repetitions in reserve (RIR) have been proposed as a practical method for quantifying proximity to failure, their use in isolation assumes that identical RIR values correspond to equivalent physiological stimuli across different repetition ranges and intensities. This assumption does not necessarily reflect comparable internal loading conditions. To address this limitation, the concept of "level of effort"-defined as the "relationship between the repetitions performed and the maximum number of repetitions that could be completed with agiven load"-offers a proportion-based and more comprehensive representation of exertion. When quantified through movement velocity, the level of effort integrates two critical variables: relative intensity (via the fastest repetition velocity) and fatigue development (via velocity loss), allowing accurate estimation of the percentage of repetition capacity utilized within a set. This approach enables practitioners to derive RIR from an objective measure of actual effort, thereby enhancing the precision of RT prescription and monitoring.		[Pareja-Blanco, Fernando] Univ Pablo Olavide, Phys Performance & Sports Res Ctr, Sci Based Training Res Grp, Seville, Spain; [Pareja-Blanco, Fernando] Univ Pablo Olavide, Fac Sports Sci, Dept Sports & Comp Sci, Seville, Spain; [Loturco, Irineu] Nucleus High Performance Sport, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Loturco, Irineu] Univ Fed Sao Paulo, Dept Human Movement Sci, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Loturco, Irineu] FSI Football Sci Inst, Granada, Spain; [Loturco, Irineu] Nucleus High Performance Sport, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Loturco, Irineu] Univ Fed Sao Paulo, Dept Human Movement Sci, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Loturco, Irineu] FSI Football Sci Inst, Granada, Spain								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001783702600020	31	Article; Article		
J	Chen, Xiaotong; Lu, Yongshen; Zhang, Bowei; Shen, Yupeng								A Correlational Analysis between the Rate of Force Development among the Arm Stroke, the Leg Kick, the Full Stroke and Short Distance Front Crawl Speed in Highly Trained Swimmers								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				102				203	214		10.5114/jhk/204780			APR 2026	2026	This study aimed to analyze sex differences in the rate of force development (RFD) among the arm stroke only (As), the leg kick only (Lk), and the full stroke (Fs) through the 30-s front crawl tethered-swimming (TS) test, and to discuss the correlation between RFD variables and short-distance front crawl speed in the force-time (F-t) curve across different sexes. Sixteen male and fourteen female highly trained swimmers (age: 19.7 +/- 3.27 years) performed the TS test under three conditions: As, Lk, Fs, as well as a 25-m front crawl test. The As, Lk, Fs of the peak RFD per 5 s (RFDave), and maximum value of the peak RFD every 5 s (RFDmax) had highly significant correlation with V25, V50, and V100 (V25-V100). Notably, the Fs of the male RFD and the As of the female RFD showed particularly strong correlations with V25-V100. It was also observed that there were sex-specific disparities in the RFD indices associated with the As, Lk, and Fs phases of swimming. The findings indicate that the RFD within the F-t curve is a valuable variable for assessing the capacity to generate propulsive force in water. Sex factors affect the relationship between RFDave, RFDmax, and short-distance front crawl speed in swimming. Coaches should fully consider sex differences when training for swimming propulsive force.		[Chen, Xiaotong; Zhang, Bowei; Shen, Yupeng] South China Normal Univ, Sch Sports Sci, Guangzhou, Peoples R China; [Chen, Xiaotong] Guangzhou Coll Commerce, Sports Acad, Guangzhou, Peoples R China; [Lu, Yongshen] Shenzhen Univ, Sports Dept, Shenzhen, Peoples R China; [Shen, Yupeng] South China Normal Univ, Sch Sports Sci, Guangzhou, Peoples R China								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001783702600016	49	Article; Article		
J	Li, Jie; Chen, Zongwei; Gong, Mingjun								Comparison of Muscle Activation between Variable Resistance Training and Free Weight Training: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				102				87	102		10.5114/jhk/202810			APR 2026	2026	Variable resistance training (VRT) can address biomechanical limitations of free weight training (FWT) and enhance performance, but its effect on muscle activation remains unclear. This study aimed to compare muscle activation between VRT and FWT, focusing on the impact of variable resistance load proportions and contraction phases in VRT. A systematic review was conducted using PubMed, Scopus, SPORTDiscus, and Web of Science, including studies of healthy adults with at least six months of training experience performing multi-joint exercises. Muscle activation was measured using surface electromyography (sEMG), and Standardized Mean Differences (SMD) were calculated using a random-effects model. The meta-analysis of 11 studies found no significant overall difference between VRT and FWT (SMD = 0.07; p = 0.493). However, VRT showed greater activation during the concentric phase than both the eccentric phase (SMD = 1.40; p < 0.001) and the FWT's concentric phase (SMD = 0.32; p = 0.033). Higher variable resistance load proportions in VRT also resulted in greater activation than FWT at equivalent loads (SMD = 0.38; p = 0.036). Thus, under the same load, VRT significantly improves concentric-phase muscle activation over FWT, with higher variable resistance loads providing even greater benefits.		[Li, Jie; Gong, Mingjun] Tianjin Univ Sport, Sch Sports Training, Tianjin 510760, Peoples R China; [Chen, Zongwei] South China Normal Univ, Sch Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Guangzhou, Guangdong, Peoples R China; [Chen, Zongwei] Univ Granada, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Granada, Spain; [Li, Jie] Tianjin Univ Sport, Sch Sports Training, Tianjin 510760, Peoples R China								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:001783702600007	48	Article; Article		
J	Hsiao, Hui-Wen; Lee, Heng-Ju								Countermovement Jump Analysis as a Predictor of Overhead Pitching Velocity in Adolescent Baseball Pitchers								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				102				23	34		10.5114/jhk/211720			APR 2026	2026	Lower limb strength is crucial in pitching, as force output correlates positively with pitching velocity. The countermovement jump (CMJ) is a common test for assessing lower limb strength, and previous research has hinted at its potential to predict performance in adult baseball players. However, further research is warranted concerning adolescent players. This study investigated the relationship between CMJ lower limb power and fastball velocity in adolescent baseball pitchers. Thirty-two adolescent male baseball pitchers from junior high school baseball teams executed three CMJs and threw five fastballs from a custom-made pitching mound. A Kistler force plate (2500 Hz) recorded ground reaction forces (GRFs) during the CMJ, and a pocket radar gun measured ball velocity. The Pearson correlation coefficient assessed the relationship between CMJ variables and ball speed. A stepwise-forward multiple regression model determined the contribution of CMJ variables to predicting fastball velocity in adolescent baseball pitchers. The CMJ variables (braking force, peak force, braking rate of force development, braking impulse, propulsive impulse, peak power, rate of power development, and leg stiffness) correlated positively with ball velocity. The regression analysis revealed that absolute braking force and body height explained 43.3% of the variance in velocity. In conclusion, adolescent pitchers with higher absolute braking force during the CMJ and greater body height are likely to achieve higher fastball velocity. Lower limb strength, assessed via CMJ tests, may aid in predicting adolescent pitchers' performance. These findings emphasize the importance of lower limb strength for pitching velocity and provide guidance to coaches for developing training programs to enhance adolescent players' fastball velocity.		[Hsiao, Hui-Wen; Lee, Heng-Ju] Natl Taiwan Normal Univ, Dept Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Taipei, Taiwan; [Lee, Heng-Ju] Natl Taiwan Normal Univ, Dept Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Taipei, Taiwan								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001783702600002	44	Article; Article		
J	Maldonado, Maricella; Eisenman, Michelle; Snarr, Ronald								Exercise Technique: Seated Anatomical Core Exercises								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				48	2			240	248		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000953			APR 2026	2026	Although many exercises exist to target the anatomical core musculature, most require individuals to be in standing or lying position. However, not all individuals possess the ability or have the required stability and balance to successfully complete these exercises. Thus, this article describes the techniques, progressions, programming guidelines, and practical applications for anatomical core exercises that can be completed while in a seated position.		[Maldonado, Maricella; Snarr, Ronald] Texas A&M Univ Corpus Christi, Dept Kinesiol, Corpus Christi, TX 78412 USA; [Eisenman, Michelle] Texas A&M Univ Corpus Christi, Div Res & Innovat, Corpus Christi, TX USA; [Snarr, Ronald] Texas A&M Univ Corpus Christi, Dept Kinesiol, Corpus Christi, TX 78412 USA								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001732326900002	13	Article; Article		
J	Lockie, Robert G.; Viramontes, Erika								Recovery Strategies for Law Enforcement Recruits During Academy Training								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				48	2			177	190		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000942			APR 2026	2026	Law enforcement recruits generally need to complete academy training before becoming sworn officers. Academy can be physically challenging for recruits, and their ability to recover from fitness training and other demanding occupational training tasks could determine whether they graduate. Numerous law enforcement organizations are experiencing recruitment challenges, so graduating as many recruits as possible is key for filling vacant positions. The expeditious use of recovery modalities could ensure more recruits are physically prepared each day to complete the required training. This review analyzed different recovery modalities that could have application for law enforcement recruits. The reviewed recovery modalities include those that require no-to-minimal equipment (active recovery, stretching, foam rolling, sleep); those that require specific equipment and/or input from trained professionals (sports massage, intermittent pneumatic compression, cold water immersion, contrast water therapy); and methods involving emerging technology (pulsed electromagnetic field and red light therapy). In addition to strategies that could be directly implemented at the law enforcement academy by training staff, the information from this review could also be used by staff to educate their recruits. Should an agency wish to use a more staff- or equipment-intensive modality, the information contained here could also be used to advocate for additional support.		[Lockie, Robert G.; Viramontes, Erika] Calif State Univ Fullerton, Dept Kinesiol, Fullerton, CA 92831 USA; [Lockie, Robert G.] Calif State Univ Fullerton, Dept Kinesiol, Fullerton, CA 92831 USA								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001732326900004	103	Article; Article		
J	Fullerton, Sean A.; Chapman, Isaac								Integrating STEM Education Within Strength & Conditioning-Based Physical Education Classes								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				48	2			191	200		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000947			APR 2026	2026	Science, technology, engineering, and math taken together as STEM Education, can be integrated into strength and conditioning (S&C)-based physical education (PE) classes to enhance learning experiences while also developing skills inherent of exercise science practitioners in the 21st century. Situating inquiry learning (IL) through project-based learning (PBL) can effectively incorporate STEM Education in S&C-based PE classes, providing contextualized and meaningful learning experiences for students. With more S&C coaches transitioning to teaching roles responsible for delivering educational programs and assigning grades, adequate pedagogical and curricular guidance is warranted. The purpose of this article is to provide a framework for integrating STEM Education into S&C-based PE courses. IL follows the 4 steps of: (a) problem clarification, (b) creating a hypothesis, (c) hypothesis testing, and (d) conclusion and validation. Delivered through PBL, inquiry projects speak to personal concerns and students have "voice and choice" in their building of knowledge and skills. We recommend incremental changes when implementing STEM Education, starting with a model-based approach of inquiry through PBL within a needs-supportive learning environment. More research is needed in the United States to evaluate STEM Education interventions in S&C-based PE courses and their effect on knowledge, skills, and dispositions of students.		[Fullerton, Sean A.] Towson Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Towson, MD 21252 USA; Univ New Mexico, Dept Hlth Exercise & Sports Sci, Albuquerque, NM USA; [Fullerton, Sean A.] Towson Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Towson, MD 21252 USA								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001732326900011	34	Article; Article		
J	Jimenez-Trujillo, Juan Osvaldo; Suarez, Gustavo Ramon; Gonzalez-Palacio, Enoc Valentin; Silva, William Ramirez; Rodriguez, Gloria Albany Hoyos								Football coaches' perceptions of decision-making: A multi-method study								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	2			724	736		10.1177/17479541261420207			APR 2026	2026	This study aimed to explore the football coaches' perceptions of decision-making, as well as to identify the phases in which players demonstrate the greatest strengths and weaknesses, and to assess their overall decision-making level. This study employed a multi-method, integrative, non-experimental, descriptive, cross-sectional design. A phenomenographic interpretative approach was followed, a quantitative and qualitative analysis was conducted. The study population comprised 1174 Colombian football coaches who enrolled in regularization courses to obtain official coaching licenses, the sample size was 233 coaches. The data were collected through a semi-structured survey. The characteristics of the participants were: age M = 42.71 years (SD = 11.11), experience as former players M = 15.73 years (SD = 10.34), coaching experience M = 16.41 years (SD = 8.87). The coaches' conceptions of decision-making in football revealed three key trends: 1) most frequently identified categories, which included choice, process, ability, problem-solving, and technique; 2) less frequently identified categories, which included game understanding, game situations, efficiency, and speed; and 3) indeterminate category, which included some responses that did not fit into the established categories. In addition, the coaches perceived technical skills to be the greatest strength of players while perceiving game comprehension and interpretation to be their greatest weakness. Overall, the coaches rated the decision-making abilities of players as moderate.Decision-making is closely linked to other key concepts recognized by sports theorists and researchers. The primary components of decision-making include choice, cognitive and deliberate processing, ability, problem-solving, and technique. Additional factors such as game understanding, situational awareness, efficiency, and speed also play a role.		[Jimenez-Trujillo, Juan Osvaldo; Suarez, Gustavo Ramon; Gonzalez-Palacio, Enoc Valentin; Rodriguez, Gloria Albany Hoyos] Univ Antioquia, Inst Phys Educ & Sport, 67th St 53-108, Medellin, Colombia; [Silva, William Ramirez] Jaime Isaza Cadavid Colombian Polytech, Fac Phys Educ Recreat & Sports, Medellin, Colombia; [Jimenez-Trujillo, Juan Osvaldo] Univ Antioquia, Inst Phys Educ & Sport, 67th St 53-108, Medellin, Colombia								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001689645500001	59	Article; Article		
J	Bliss, Alex; Maxwell, Neil; Langdown, Ben								The golf and strength and conditioning coach interface: A model to optimise performance support for golfers								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	2			1170	1177		10.1177/17479541261420683			APR 2026	2026	The benefits of strength and conditioning (S&C) for golf are well established in the empirical scientific evidence base. While more longitudinal training studies are required, recent systematic reviews and meta-analyses have confirmed the viability of S&C for golfers, particularly for improving clubhead speed, a critical performance determinant. Golfer support is also evolving, whereby the historic "team" of golfer and golf coach are expanded. Elite golfers seek additional coaching from various sport science disciplines including S&C in the quest for sustained optimal performance. However, until recently, how S&C integrates within an overall golf plan had not been considered. Our research addressed this knowledge gap. This article is the first to synthesise these findings, make practical recommendations for golfers and their support team and provide suggestions for future research. The article highlights a continued need for improved communication between S&C coach, golf coach, and golfer. The golfer's wants and needs are not always aligned to those of the golf coach and the qualities the S&C coach needs to possess vary depending on the perceptions and practices of the golf coach and/or golfer. The S&C coach also needs to be cognisant of their varying overall impact on performance potential in a highly technical sport.		[Bliss, Alex; Maxwell, Neil] Univ Brighton, Sch Educ Sport & Hlth Sci, Brighton, England; [Langdown, Ben] Open Univ, Sch Educ Childhood Youth & Sport, Milton Keynes, England; [Bliss, Alex] Univ Brighton, Sch Educ Sport & Hlth Sci, Brighton, England								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001689074000001	32	Article; Article		
J	Maneiro, Ruben; Arda, Antonio; Losada, Jose Luis; Ivan-Baragano, Iyan								Practice (Doesnt) Make Perfect Shooters: The Influence of Experience on Penalty Execution in Elite Soccer								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				102				215	226		10.5114/jhk/205224			APR 2026	2026	The aim of this study was twofold: firstly, to identify the variables associated with the experience of penalty shooters, and secondly, to understand the interaction of contextual variables and penalty execution that differentiated experienced from inexperienced players. To achieve this, a systematic observational methodology was employed to analyze 1,589 penalty kicks in various international club and national team competitions for men. The analyses were conducted using contingency tables and the chi-square statistic, as well as decision trees and binary logistic regression, to address the second objective. Categorizing players as experienced or inexperienced was based on their role as penalty kick takers in the team. Considering experience, statistically significant differences were found in contextual variables such as the specific position, age, timing, and match status. Similarly, differences were found in the shooter's running approach and kick height. At a multivariate level, both classification models showed significant differences in shooting patterns based on experience: players differed in terms of match timing, the specific position, the running approach, and the penalty outcome. The results of this study demonstrated differences between experienced and inexperienced players, highlighting the need to: i) delve deeper into research on this specific soccer action, and ii) enhance training of such actions among a greater number of players, not solely relying on experienced players for their execution.		[Maneiro, Ruben] Univ Vigo, Dept Special Didact, Vigo, Spain; [Arda, Antonio] Univ A Coruna, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, La Coruna, Spain; [Losada, Jose Luis] Univ Barcelona, Dept Social Psychol & Quantitat Psychol, Barcelona, Spain; [Losada, Jose Luis] Autonomous Univ Barcelona, Res Grp & Innovat Designs GRID Technol & Multimedi, Barcelona, Spain; [Ivan-Baragano, Iyan] Univ Europea Madrid, Fac Med Hlth & Sports, Dept Sport Sci, Madrid, Spain; [Maneiro, Ruben] Univ Vigo, Dept Special Didact, Vigo, Spain								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001783702600017	33	Article; Article		
J	Yan, Hao; Zhai, Haiting; Wang, Tingting; Wang, Duchun; Wei, Hongwen								Reliability and Validity of the Load-Velocity Relationship for Predicting the 1 RM in the Bulgarian Split Squat Exercise								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				102				159	171		10.5114/jhk/205096			APR 2026	2026	This study aimed to compare the reliability and validity of various prediction models based on load-velocity relationships for predicting the one-repetition maximum (1 RM) in Bulgarian split squat (BSS) exercises. Twenty-seven resistance-trained men participated in the study, completing both a 1-RM test and a progressive loading test to determine the 1 RM value, along with the mean velocity (MV) and peak velocity (PV) for each load. Load-velocity relationships were constructed using linear and binomial regression equations. The results revealed a strong correlation between different velocities and relative loads in BSS exercises (R2 = 0.880-0.964), with the MV-based model slightly outperforming the PV-based model (R2 difference of 0.06 and SEE difference of 0.02). Additionally, both MV and PV across all test loads demonstrated good reliability (ICC >= 0.801; CV <= 2.36%). Despite very strong correlations between the actual and predicted 1 RM across all models (R = 0.890-0.972), linear regression models and binomial regression models for the dominant leg consistently underestimated the actual 1 RM (p <= 0.035). Only the binomial regression models for the nondominant leg accurately predicted the 1 RM (p >= 0.223). In conclusion, modeling using MV and binomial regression provides more reliable and accurate 1 RM predictions for BSS exercises. These findings confirm the utility of load-velocity relationships in predicting 1 RM for BSS exercises and suggest that practitioners should use MV and polynomial regression equations for predicting 1 RM in highly complex free-weight resistance exercises.		[Yan, Hao; Wang, Tingting; Wei, Hongwen] Beijing Sport Univ, Sch Strength & Conditioning Training, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Zhai, Haiting] Beijing Sports Univ, Sch Sports Coaching, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Wang, Duchun] Dept Chinese Table Tennis Assoc, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Wei, Hongwen] Beijing Sport Univ, Sch Strength & Conditioning Training, Beijing, Peoples R China								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:001783702600012	56	Article; Article		
J	Cabuk, Refik; Demirarar, Onur; Arslan, Hakan; Cin, Merve; Ozcaldiran, Bahtiyar; Karsten, Bettina								Counteracting Static Stretching-Induced Anaerobic Performance Impairment: The Role of Caffeine								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				102				117	131		10.5114/jhk/207251			APR 2026	2026	Static stretching (SS) practices can result in acute anaerobic performance reductions with an associated reduction in neural muscle input. The purpose of this study was to determine whether the neural stimulus of caffeine intake would sufficiently minimize or remove the potential inhibitory effect of acute SS on anaerobic performance measured by a 30-s all-out Wingate Anaerobic Test (WAnT). Twelve (12) recreational male athletes performed the WAnT under six conditions, namely a no-treatment control condition, an SS condition (nine lower-body SS exercises), a placebo condition (6 mg kg-1 maltodextrin), a placebo combined with SS condition, a caffeine condition (6 mg kg-1) and a caffeine combined with SS condition. Peak power output (PPO), average power output (AvPO) and maximal revolutions per minute (RPMmax) were measured. SS resulted in significantly lower PPO values (p = 0.005), RPMmaxvalues (p = 0.014), and longer tPPO (p = 0.036) compared to the control condition. The condition of SS in combination with caffeine intake resulted in significantly higher PPO (p = 0.004), AvPO (p = 0.025) and RPMmax(p = 0.000) values compared to the condition of SS only. In addition, the control condition showed significantly lower values in PPO (p = 0.029), AvPO (p = 0.008), and RPMmax(p = 0.018) variables compared to the caffeine condition, whereas no significant difference (p = 0.260-0.567) was observed when compared with the caffeine and SS combination condition. The results of this study confirm the negative effects of SS on anaerobic performance while demonstrating that caffeine intake may minimize or counterbalance these effects. Additionally, the potential risk that SS may partially diminish the positive effects of caffeine should not be overlooked.		[Cabuk, Refik] Ondokuz Mayis Univ, Yasar Dogu Fac Sport Sci, Dept Coaching Educ, Samsun, Turkiye; [Demirarar, Onur; Cin, Merve] Gendarmerie & Coast Guard Acad, Dept Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Ankara, Turkiye; [Arslan, Hakan] Ege Univ, Inst Hlth Sci, Dept Sports Hlth Sci, Izmir, Turkiye; [Ozcaldiran, Bahtiyar] Ege Univ, Fac Sports Sci, Dept Coaching Educ, Izmir, Turkiye; [Karsten, Bettina] CBS Univ Appl Sci, Fac Hlth Pedag & Social Sci, Cologne, Germany; [Karsten, Bettina] Univ Greenwich, Inst Lifecourse Dev, Ctr Exercise Act & Rehabil, Sch Human Sci, London, England; [Cabuk, Refik] Ondokuz Mayis Univ, Yasar Dogu Fac Sport Sci, Dept Coaching Educ, Samsun, Turkiye								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:001783702600009	41	Article; Article		
J	Ferreira, Sergio Soares; Fernandes, Luis Goncalves; Martins, Pedro Nunes; Sampaio, Antonio Rodrigues; Nunes, Nuno Andre; Clemente, Filipe Manuel; Abade, Eduardo Andre; Ferreira, Ricardo Maia								Are small-sided games an efficient re-warm-up strategy in women football? A randomised crossover study								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	2			843	854		10.1177/17479541251414956			APR 2026	2026	This study investigated the acute effects of three re-warm-up conditions (small-sided games (SSG), jogging, and inactivity) on physical performance in youth female footballers. Sixteen under-15 players (14.06 +/- 0.66 years) participated in a randomised crossover design over three weeks. Each intervention consisted of 4 min of either SSG (4v4, 25 m x 25 m), jogging, or passive rest, applied after a standardised warm-up. Physical performance was assessed using 10 m and 30 m sprint tests and the countermovement jump (CMJ) at six time points: baseline (Pre-Wu), immediately after warm-up, and at 5-, 10-, and 15-min post-re-warm-up. SSG produced meaningful improvements in CMJ height, with increases of +5.9% to +6.9% vs. baseline (epsilon(2) = 0.22-0.36, p < 0.01). Jogging also improved CMJ (+0.9% to +4.6%), although with slightly smaller effect. In the 30 m sprint, SSG helped maintain performance (<= 1.0% variation), whereas jogging resulted in consistent performance decline (+1.9% to +3.1% slower than baseline, p < 0.05). Passive rest led to significant decrements in both CMJ and sprint performance (CMJ -5.6% at 15 min; 30 m sprint +2.1% to +3.0% slower, p < 0.05). No between-condition differences were observed for the 10 m sprint. In conclusion, both SSG and jogging are effective short re-warm-up strategies for preserving or enhancing CMJ performance, but SSG demonstrates greater practical relevance, sustaining jump performance while preventing sprint deterioration.		[Ferreira, Sergio Soares; Fernandes, Luis Goncalves; Martins, Pedro Nunes; Sampaio, Antonio Rodrigues; Ferreira, Ricardo Maia] Polytech Inst Maia IPMAIA, Educ & Sport Sch, Social Sci, N2i, Ave Carlos Oliveira Campos, Maia, Portugal; [Sampaio, Antonio Rodrigues] Univ Maia UMAIA, Sports Dept, Maia, Portugal; [Sampaio, Antonio Rodrigues; Abade, Eduardo Andre] Hlth Sci & Human Dev CIDESD, Res Ctr Sports Sci, Covilha, Portugal; [Nunes, Nuno Andre] Southampton Solent Univ, Dept Sport & Hlth, Southampton, England; [Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Polytech Univ Coimbra IPC, Coimbra, Portugal; [Clemente, Filipe Manuel; Ferreira, Ricardo Maia] Sport Phys Act & Hlth Res & Innovat Ctr SPRINT, Coimbra, Portugal; [Clemente, Filipe Manuel; Ferreira, Ricardo Maia] Innovat Ctr, Coimbra, Portugal; [Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, Dept Biomech & Sport Engn, Gdansk, Poland; [Abade, Eduardo Andre] Univ Tras os Montes & Alto Douro UTAD, Dept Sports Sci Exercise & Hlth, Vila Real, Portugal; [Abade, Eduardo Andre] Portuguese Football Federat FPF, Portugal Football Sch, Oeiras, Portugal; [Ferreira, Ricardo Maia] Polytech Univ Coimbra IPC, Coimbra Hlth Sch ESTeSC, Sci Pedag Unit Physiotherapy, Coimbra, Portugal; [Ferreira, Sergio Soares] Polytech Inst Maia IPMAIA, Educ & Sport Sch, Social Sci, N2i, Ave Carlos Oliveira Campos, Maia, Portugal								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001673948200001	57	Article; Article		
J	Walerianczyk, Wojciech; Krzywanski, Jaroslaw; Wojcik, Katarzyna; Lisek, Grzegorz; Konopka, Katarzyna; Krysztofiak, Hubert; Maleszka, Piotr; Slawinska, Malgorzata; Poczwardowski, Artur								Prevalence of Mental Health Symptoms and Recommendations in a Cohort of Elite Paralympic versus Olympic Athletes: The Sport Mental Health Assessment Tool 1 (SMHAT-1) in Combination with Clinical Intake Interviews								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				102				241	257		10.5114/jhk/204828			APR 2026	2026	Empirical research regarding the prevalence of mental health symptoms in Paralympic athletes is scarce. We aimed to evaluate the prevalence of mental health concerns in elite Paralympic athletes based on their scores in the IOC Sport Mental Health Assessment Tool 1 (SMHAT-1) and the subsequent in-person clinical intake interviews. In doing so, we also compared the prevalence of mental health symptoms and recommendations in the cohorts of Paralympic and Olympic athletes. We administered the SMHAT-1 (a state-of-the-art tool comprising screeners of psychological distress, depressive and anxiety symptoms, sleep disturbances, alcohol and other substances misuse, and disordered eating) during the routine biannual medical check-ups for all Paralympic athletes at the National Centre for Sports Medicine in Poland. Subsequently, all Paralympic athletes were interviewed by qualified sport psychologists who further evaluated the athletes' mental health and provided recommendations. A total of 137 Paralympic athletes (87 males, 50 females) participated in the study three to eight months prior to the 2024 Paris Paralympic Games; 61% scored above the triage threshold for psychological distress. Based on the subsequent mental health evaluation, 75.2% of Paralympic athletes required no mental health action, 18.3% were advised psychoeducation or sport psychologist consultation, while 7.3% were referred to a mental health specialist-a psychotherapist and/or a psychiatrist. The proportion of mental health recommendations did not significantly differ between Paralympic and Olympic athletes. The SMHAT-1 proved a valuable basis for the subsequent brief clinical interviews, substantially elevated the efficacy of mental health evaluation, and aided in raising mental health literacy in Paralympic athletes.		[Walerianczyk, Wojciech; Slawinska, Malgorzata] Natl Res Inst, Dept Social Sci, Inst Sport, Warsaw, Poland; [Krzywanski, Jaroslaw; Wojcik, Katarzyna; Lisek, Grzegorz; Konopka, Katarzyna; Krysztofiak, Hubert; Maleszka, Piotr] Natl Ctr Sports Med, Warsaw, Poland; [Krzywanski, Jaroslaw] Jozef Pilsudski Univ Phys Educ, Dept Rehabil, Warsaw, Poland; [Lisek, Grzegorz] Jozef Pilsudski Univ Phys Educ, Pedag & Psychol Dept, Warsaw, Poland; [Konopka, Katarzyna] SWPS Univ Social Sci & Humanities, Fac Psychol, Warsaw, Poland; [Krysztofiak, Hubert] Polish Acad Sci, Mossakowski Med Res Inst, Warsaw, Poland; [Maleszka, Piotr] Mazovian Specialist Hlth Ctr, Pruszkow, Poland; [Poczwardowski, Artur] Univ Denver, Grad Sch Profess Psychol, Denver, CO USA; [Walerianczyk, Wojciech] Natl Res Inst, Dept Social Sci, Inst Sport, Warsaw, Poland								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:001783702600019	40	Article; Article		
J	Martinez-Gallego, Rafael; Crespo, Miguel; Guzman, Jose Francisco; Baiget, Ernest; Vives, Fernando								To return forward or backward? that is the question: Analysing and predicting return positioning in elite men's doubles tennis								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	2			922	932		10.1177/17479541251404014			APR 2026	2026	Return positioning is a critical yet understudied tactical element in elite men's doubles tennis. This study analysed 21,881 Hawk-Eye tracked returns from 101 professional matches to identify distinct return depth patterns, compare associated serve characteristics, and develop predictive models. K-Means clustering revealed Short (approx. 11.1 m from net) and Deep (approx. 12.5 m) return clusters on both Deuce and Advantage sides. Deep return positions were significantly associated with higher serve speeds (d > 1.02), first serves (V > 0.43), and T-serves (V > 0.30), while short return positions correlated with lower speeds, second serves, and wide serves (all p < 0.001). Break point status was not significant. Classification and Regression Tree models, primarily using serve speed and type, predicted return depth with good accuracy (77-79%) and AUC (0.77-0.79). These findings demonstrate that elite players systematically adapt their return depth based on serve characteristics, likely to manage response time and angles considering the opposing net player. This provides novel empirical quantification of doubles return strategies, offering valuable insights for tactical training and performance analysis.		[Martinez-Gallego, Rafael; Guzman, Jose Francisco; Vives, Fernando] Univ Valencia, Res Grp Sports Tech & Tact, Valencia, Spain; [Crespo, Miguel] Int Tennis Federat, Dev Dept, London, England; [Baiget, Ernest] Univ Barcelona, Natl Inst Phys Educ Catalonia, Barcelona, Spain; [Martinez-Gallego, Rafael] Univ Valencia, Res Grp Sports Tech & Tact, Valencia, Spain								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001638007100001	31	Article; Article		
J	Nagatani, Tsuyoshi; Vial, Shayne; Kendall, Kristina L.; Comfort, Paul; Yang, Jiahao; Haff, G. Gregory								The perceptions and applications of cluster sets in strength and conditioning								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	2			1066	1075		10.1177/17479541251403877			APR 2026	2026	It is well documented that cluster sets, a modified set structure with additional rest between individual repetitions or groups of repetitions, can be used to modulate exercise-induced fatigue during resistance training. While practical guidelines exist, it remains unclear to what extent strength and conditioning (S&C) professionals utilise this programming tactic. The aim of this study was to examine S&C professionals' perceptions of cluster sets and their application in practice. A secondary aim was to assess the alignment between cluster set programming tactics used in the field and evidence-based recommendations from the scientific and coaching literature. Forty-six S&C professionals (age: 40.0 +/- 13.6 yrs) completed an online survey comprised of three sections: (1) coaching demographic, (2) perceptions of cluster sets, and (3) program design. The survey included both closed- and open-ended questions. There was a general alignment between professional practice and current recommendations, particularly regarding the use of cluster sets during strength-power phases, manipulation of rest intervals, and prescription of higher training intensities. However, unlike recommended published practices, cluster sets were most commonly used with the bench press and variations of the squat, both of which require un-racking and re-racking the barbell during the cluster set, which may be physically demanding for athletes. Despite acknowledging logistical barriers such as supervision issues and time constraints, S&C professionals still view cluster sets as a practical programming tactic due to their minimal technological requirements and potential benefits. These findings can inform future applied research projects and educational content focused on cluster sets.		[Nagatani, Tsuyoshi; Vial, Shayne; Kendall, Kristina L.; Comfort, Paul; Yang, Jiahao; Haff, G. Gregory] Edith Cowan Univ, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, Strength & Power Res Grp, Joondalup, WA, Australia; [Comfort, Paul; Haff, G. Gregory] Univ Salford, Directorate Psychol & Sport, Salford, England; [Haff, G. Gregory] Edith Cowan Univ, Exercise Med Res Inst, Joondalup, WA, Australia; [Nagatani, Tsuyoshi] Edith Cowan Univ, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, 270 Joondalup Dr, Joondalup, WA 6027, Australia								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001633861800001	49	Article; Article		
J	Kons, Rafael Lima; Weldon, Anthony; Roelands, Bart; Apollaro, Gennaro; Ouergui, Ibrahim; Busatto, Ericksson; Felix, Guilherme; Ishibashi, Mayra; Milistetd, Michel								Strength and conditioning practices of taekwondo coaches: A survey study								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	2			791	801		10.1177/17479541251398249			APR 2026	2026	Strength and conditioning (S&C) play a crucial role in enhancing performance and reducing the risk of injury in combat sports. However, research on S&C practices among taekwondo coaches, particularly in Brazil, is scarce. This study addressed this gap by investigating the practices, knowledge, and challenges faced by Brazilian taekwondo coaches. An anonymous online survey was completed by 104 taekwondo coaches, covering background information, education, S&C perspectives, exercise selection, and perceived barriers. Descriptive statistics were applied to closed-ended questions, and qualitative content analysis was used for open responses. Results showed that while 94% of coaches held an academic degree, only 15% had formal S&C certifications. Nevertheless, nearly all participants considered S&C important or very important for taekwondo performance. Commonly prescribed exercises included squats (for strength), plyometrics (power/speed), ladder drills (agility), and dynamic stretching (flexibility), with kicking drills focused on speed and precision being most used for sport-specific conditioning. The key challenges reported by coaches included low athlete motivation and fear of injury, particularly among youth athletes. Coaches also highlighted the need for greater interdisciplinary support, improved access to S&C professionals, and better integration of training monitoring tools and technology. Moreover, this research will provide fundamental knowledge to advance S&C research, education, and applied practice within taekwondo.		[Kons, Rafael Lima] Univ Fed Bahia, Fac Educ, Dept Phys Educ, Salvador, BA, Brazil; [Kons, Rafael Lima; Roelands, Bart] Vrije Univ Brussel, Human Physiol & Sports Physiotherapy Res Grp, Brussels, Belgium; [Kons, Rafael Lima; Roelands, Bart] Vrije Univ Brussel, Brussels Human Robot Res Ctr BruBot, Brussels, Belgium; [Weldon, Anthony] Birmingham City Univ, Fac Hlth Educ & Life Sci, Birmingham, England; [Weldon, Anthony] Aston Villa Football Club, Aston Villa Fdn, Birmingham, England; [Apollaro, Gennaro] Univ Genoa, Dept Neurosci Rehabil Ophthalmol Genet & Maternal, Genoa, Italy; [Ouergui, Ibrahim] Univ Jendouba, High Inst Sport & Phys Educ Kef, El Kef, Tunisia; [Ouergui, Ibrahim] Univ Jendouba, Res Unit, Sports Sci Hlth & Movement, El Kef, Tunisia; [Busatto, Ericksson; Felix, Guilherme; Ishibashi, Mayra] Brazilian Taekwondo Confederat, Dept Educ, Rio De Janeiro, RJ, Brazil; [Milistetd, Michel] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Ctr Sports, Sports Pedag Lab, Florianopolis, SC, Brazil; [Kons, Rafael Lima] Univ Fed Bahia, Fac Educ, Dept Educ, BR-40110100 Salvador, BA, Brazil								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001626121800001	48	Article; Article		
J	Ozturk, Pinar; Kavasoglu, Irem; Kizilgunes, Mine; Koca, Canan								Turkish coaches' perspectives on safeguarding in sport: Self-assessed knowledge, intervention behaviours, and prevention needs								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	2			746	756		10.1177/17479541251393917			APR 2026	2026	This study examines Turkish coaches' understanding of safe sport and safeguarding, perceived prevalence of harassment and abuse in sport, self-assessed knowledge and intervention, and prevention needs. A cross-sectional, 20-item survey was administered online and hard copy to 1612 coaches (517 female, 1095 male) from 56 federations. Quantitative data were analysed with descriptive and inferential statistics, and qualitative responses underwent inductive content analysis. The findings indicate that coaches most frequently defined safe sport as an environment free from all types of harassment and abuse and safeguarding as physical and mental protection. Psychological abuse was most frequently perceived (70.1%); for all types, prevalence was rated higher for T & uuml;rkiye's general sport environment than for coaches' own disciplines (McNemar's test, all p < .001). Self-assessed knowledge (M = 3.82) and intervention (M = 4.20) were moderate to high and correlated (r = .48, p < .001), with a small gender effect on knowledge. Logistic models indicated higher odds for females (knowledge OR = 1.56; intervention OR = 1.52) and lower odds for trained coaches crossing high thresholds (knowledge OR = 0.66; intervention OR = 0.77). Finally, coaches' strongly voiced demand for the safeguarding training, together with their identification of unsafe training/competition conditions as the primary risk, underscores the need to clarify the definitions of, and reporting mechanisms for, harassment and abuse in sport. The priority should be to nationally standardized and internationally aligned safe sport policies.		[Ozturk, Pinar; Kizilgunes, Mine; Koca, Canan] Hacettepe Univ, Fac Sports Sci, Block A,Beytepe Campus, Ankara, Turkiye; [Kavasoglu, Irem] Cukurova Univ, Fac Sports Sci, Adana, Turkiye; [Ozturk, Pinar] Hacettepe Univ, Fac Sports Sci, Block A,Beytepe Campus, Ankara, Turkiye								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001625454500001	56	Article; Article		
J	Kim, Seungmo; Love, Adam; Park, Sanghyun								Organizational citizenship behavior as a mediator between team cohesion and team effectiveness: A cross-cultural analysis								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	2			813	824		10.1177/17479541251394830			APR 2026	2026	This study examined the mediating role of organizational citizenship behavior (OCB) in the relationship between team cohesion and team effectiveness by collecting data from a sample of 613 collegiate student-athletes in South Korea (hereafter referred to as "Korea") and Hong Kong. Results revealed that team cohesion significantly predicted both OCB and team effectiveness, with OCB also exerting a strong positive influence on team effectiveness. Furthermore, OCB partially mediated the cohesion-effectiveness relationship, highlighting its critical function within sport teams. Cross-cultural comparisons showed that Korean athletes demonstrated higher levels of social cohesion and team effectiveness, while Hong Kong athletes exhibited stronger task cohesion. Notably, OCB's mediating effect was more pronounced among Korean participants. These findings offer insights into how prosocial team behaviors can be harnessed to improve performance and inform culturally responsive coaching strategies.		[Kim, Seungmo] Hong Kong Baptist Univ, Dept Sports & Hlth Sci, Kowloon Tong, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [Love, Adam] Univ Tennessee, Dept Kinesiol Recreat & Sport Studies, Knoxville, TN USA; [Park, Sanghyun] Korea Natl Open Univ, Dept Sport All, Nanumgwan 507,86 Daehak Ro, Seoul 03087, South Korea; [Park, Sanghyun] Korea Natl Open Univ, Dept Sport All, Nanumgwan 507,86 Daehak Ro, Seoul 03087, South Korea								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001618870900001	52	Article; Article		
J	Koopmann, Till; Chorengel, Arne; Schorer, Jorg								Identifying and consolidating coaches' beliefs on individual aspects of talent in basketball								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	2			757	767		10.1177/17479541251394456			APR 2026	2026	In many sports, coaches observe and subjectively evaluate youth players during competition or practice before making selection decisions. This process is referred to as 'the' coach's eye. Coaches' thought and decision-making processes underlying these selection decisions are not well understood in general and for separate sports specifically. Thus, the present research applied a combination of three in-depth semi-structured expert interviews with national basketball coaches, and an online questionnaire to the wider basketball coaching community (n = 125) to first identify and afterwards consolidate aspects of talent in basketball for different age groups. Findings show that coaches generally have a multidimensional understanding of talent in basketball including mainly anthropometrics and athleticism, fundamental motor abilities, psychological factors and tactical and technical skills. Notably, coaches differentiate the importance of aspects in terms of player age. For example, while motor abilities are highly important at all ages and the most important aspect at 8-11 years of age, technical skills are least important before increasing the most for adolescence and the transfer into adulthood. In summary, this research provides an informational starting point for practitioners and coaches to discuss, and for future studies to explore the role of crucial factors (e.g. age) and complex aspects of talent in basketball and the coach's eye.		[Koopmann, Till; Chorengel, Arne; Schorer, Jorg] Carl von Ossietzky Univ Oldenburg, Inst Sport Sci, Ammerlander Heerstr 114-118, D-26129 Oldenburg, Germany; [Koopmann, Till] Carl von Ossietzky Univ Oldenburg, Inst Sport Sci, Ammerlander Heerstr 114-118, D-26129 Oldenburg, Germany								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001617799500001	45	Article; Article		
J	Quick, Simon; Taylor, Tessa; Baghurst, Timothy								What are you thinking when you coach? An exploration of tennis coaches' cognitions using stimulated recall								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	2			737	745		10.1177/17479541251391779			APR 2026	2026	To date, much sports coaching research has tended to focus on components such as decision-making, knowledge structures, and mental models. However, limited attention has been given to the "types of thinking" coaches engage in when coaching athletes in situ. This gap in the research literature is problematic for both coaches and coach developers in improving coaching practice. Therefore, we explored tennis coaches' cognitive processes (i.e., the what) and their type (i.e., the how). Using stimulated recall interviews (a knowledge elicitation method based on watching video recordings of one's own practice), data were collected from four expert tennis coaches within coaching sessions (n = 8). In addition, (n = 4) background interviews were conducted to help make sense of the data and inform the stimulated recall interview questions. A Reflexive Thematic Analysis revealed a framework of nine higher psychological functions (noticing, questioning, confirming, risk evaluation, forecasting, contextualizing, normalizing, problem-solving, and deductive reasoning) in which coaches engage during coaching practice. These findings have potential theoretical and practical applications in sports coaching practice and coach development.		[Quick, Simon] Univ Essex, Sch Sport Rehabil & Exercise Sci, Colchester, England; [Taylor, Tessa] Frostproof Sch, Frostproof, FL USA; [Baghurst, Timothy] Florida State Univ, Coll Educ Hlth & Human Sci, FSU COACH, Tallahassee, FL USA; [Quick, Simon] Univ Essex, Sch Sport Rehabil & Exercise Sci, Colchester, England								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001610313400001	37	Article; Article		
J	Turner, Charlotte; Vickery, Will; Dingeldei, Lizzie; Dwyer, Dan B.; Bruce, Lyndell								Athlete and staff perceptions of the attributes athletes require to be ready for team selection in Australian football								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	2			887	898		10.1177/17479541251380747			APR 2026	2026	A notable amount of research in Australian Football describes what separates drafted from non-drafted athletes, however there is limited understanding of how Australian Football League (AFL) listed athletes, progress into the weekly AFL team. This study aimed to understand the perceptions of club staff and elite athletes on what attributes are needed for an athlete to be considered 'ready' for selection in the AFL. Semi-structured interviews were conducted with 12 staff members and nine athletes from one AFL club. The specific attributes required by athletes depend on their playing position. Staff generally agreed on the importance of physical and physiological, and technical and tactical attributes, while psychological and performance attributes were also considered in the assesment of readiness. Athletes indicated they needed to possess the psychological, physical, technical, and tactical skills required before they were considered ready. Staff and athletes suggested that to achieve these attributes, athletes needed to be healthy and injury free. Findings suggest that two categories of attributes may exist in the assessment of readiness, the first consisting of attributes considered essential and possessed by a larger portion of athletes, while the second consists of attributes seen as less essential but more impactful to performance. These novel insights provide agreement across the football department about what determines player readiness, in order provide an aligned interdisciplinary approach to developing athletes. Findings also have the potential to benefit playing groups across the league, giving athletes greater clarity of what is expected of them to be considered ready for selection into an AFL team.		[Turner, Charlotte; Vickery, Will; Dwyer, Dan B.; Bruce, Lyndell] Deakin Univ, Inst Phys Act & Nutr, Ctr Sport Res, Geelong, Australia; [Turner, Charlotte; Dingeldei, Lizzie; Dwyer, Dan B.; Bruce, Lyndell] Deakin Univ, Sch Exercise & Nutr Sci, Geelong, Australia; [Vickery, Will] Australian Sports Commiss, Coaching & Officiating, Bruce, ACT, Australia; [Bruce, Lyndell] Deakin Univ, Inst Phys Act & Nutr, Ctr Sport Res, Geelong, Australia								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001583959200001	33	Article; Article		
J	Kondur, Arya; Shen, Weining								An evaluation of the hot-hand hypothesis in the NBA when accounting for shot difficulty								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	2			950	968		10.1177/17479541251374788			APR 2026	2026	The hot-hand hypothesis suggests that athletes can experience periods of exceptional performance where the success of their next action is influenced by previous successes. This study examines the hot-hand phenomenon in the context of the NBA, focusing on shot difficulty as a critical factor. Previous research has yielded conflicting results, often ignoring the varying difficulty of shots and the role of defensive pressure. Utilizing shot log data from the 2014-2015 NBA season, this paper introduces new models that account for shot difficulty with defender proximity. By employing XGBoost classifiers and difficulty-weighted metrics, we find that while traditional hot-hand effects are minimal, adjusting for shot difficulty reveals a reverse hot-hand effect: players tend to perform worse following streaks of successful but difficult shots. This research provides a nuanced understanding of the hot-hand phenomenon, highlighting the importance of considering shot difficulty in sports performance analysis. These findings have implications for coaching strategies and the psychological interpretation of performance streaks in competitive basketball.		[Kondur, Arya; Shen, Weining] Univ Calif Irvine, Dept Stat, Irvine, CA 92697 USA; [Kondur, Arya] Univ Calif Irvine, Dept Stat, Irvine, CA 92697 USA								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001567467300001	24	Article; Article		
J	Karaduman, Emre; Arede, Jorge; Beskoc, Caner; Asli, Samet; Coban, Ahmet; Akdemir, Enes; Bostanci, Ozgur								Examining based-time cardiopulmonary responses during a cycling time-to-exhaustion test considering maturity offset among trained youth male soccer players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261435147				2026	This study aimed to investigate the potential relationship between maturity offset and cardiopulmonary responses, and to determine at which relative time points these responses differ markedly throughout the exercise duration. Ninety-two trained youth male soccer players performed progressive cycling to exhaustion on an ergometer with simultaneous breath-by-breath assessment of key cardiopulmonary parameters, including oxygen uptake (VO2), carbon dioxide production (VCO2), minute ventilation (VE), oxygen saturation (SpO(2)), heart rate (HR), and heart rate reserve (HRR). The quantile and functional concurrent regression analyses revealed that maturity offset significantly and variably associated with the magnitude, distribution, and time-dependent changes in cardiopulmonary responses. The findings revealed maturity-dependent cardiopulmonary response patterns; VO2 and VCO2 showed positive maturity effects across all quantiles, and inter-individual variability decreased with advancing maturation as the lower (tau = 0.10) and upper (tau = 0.90) quantiles converged toward the median at later maturity stages. Furthermore, functional concurrent regression analyses revealed that relationships with maturity offset were more pronounced in VO2 and VCO2 from the 10% iso-time onward (p < 0.001), and in VE from the 40% iso-time onward (p < 0.001). In contrast, estimated maturity offset effects on VO(2)peak, HR and HRR were only transient, appearing in early-to-mid exercise stages (p < 0.050) but diminishing toward later time points. These findings suggest that maturity advantages in cardiopulmonary responses become more pronounced at starting or relatively moderate intensities (>= 10-40% of iso-time points), whereas cardiovascular capacity showed smaller differences and tended to converge toward maximum effort. Practitioners should consider maturity offset when interpreting CPET profiles in youth athletes.		[Karaduman, Emre; Asli, Samet; Coban, Ahmet; Akdemir, Enes; Bostanci, Ozgur] Univ Ondokuz Mayis, Fac Sport Sci, TR-55270 Samsun, Turkiye; [Arede, Jorge] Polytech Inst Viseu, Viseu, Portugal; [Arede, Jorge] Univ Tras Os Montes & Alto Douro, Fac Exercise & Hlth Sci, Vila Real, Portugal; [Arede, Jorge] Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev CIDESD, Vila Real, Portugal; [Beskoc, Caner] Univ Hlth Sci, Fac Med, Istanbul, Turkiye; [Bostanci, Ozgur] Univ Ondokuz Mayis, Fac Sport Sci, TR-55270 Samsun, Turkiye								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001729765300001	50	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Ueno, Tomoya; Ishihara, Toru; Yamamoto, Keizo								Identification and classification of kinematically effective early flight postures in ski jumping								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2026.2649472				2026	This study aimed to characterise early flight posture and classify movement strategies in ski jumping of trunk, hip, and knee kinematics. Using a 10-camera markerless motion capture system, three-dimensional motion data were collected from 30 ski jumpers of different competitive levels. During the early flight phase, time-series waveforms of trunk anterior tilt and hip and knee extension angles were extracted and time-normalised. Principal component analysis (PCA) was applied to reduce waveform dimensionality while preserving dominant coordination features. The first two principal components from each variable were subjected to hierarchical clustering. Based on clustering indices, a three-cluster solution was statistically supported, revealing three distinct movement strategies. To evaluate cluster-specific kinematic differences over time, statistical parametric mapping (SPM) one-way ANOVA with post hoc tests was applied to the original waveforms. Significant main effects of cluster were observed for trunk, hip, and knee kinematics. Post hoc analyses showed that trunk and knee differences were mainly driven by contrasts between Clusters 2 and 3, whereas hip kinematics primarily distinguished Cluster 1. Together, these results indicate that PCA-based clustering supported by SPM enables an objective classification of early flight movement strategies and a descriptive interpretation of inter-individual kinematic differences.		[Ueno, Tomoya; Yamamoto, Keizo] Hokusho Univ, Grad Sch Lifelong Sport, Ebetsu, Japan; [Ishihara, Toru] Kobe Univ, Grad Sch Human Dev & Environm, Kobe, Japan; [Ueno, Tomoya] Hokusho Univ, Grad Sch Lifelong Sport, Ebetsu, Japan								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001726723500001	47	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Matta, Guilherme; Edwards, Andrew; Roelands, Bart; Hettinga, Florentina; Hurst, Philip								Physiological and Placebo Effects of Beetroot Juice in Virtual Cycling Using the Balanced Placebo Design								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT											10.1080/02701367.2026.2625878				2026	The physiological and placebo effects of beetroot juice remain unclear in settings outside traditional laboratory environments. Using a randomized, between-participant balanced placebo design, we asked 67 trained cyclists to complete 20-min time-trials on a virtual cycling platform with the ingestion of either beetroot juice or placebo (similar to 552 or similar to 0.2 mg nitrate, respectively). After completing baseline trials, participants were randomized to one of four experimental groups: 1) informed beetroot juice/given beetroot juice (BRJ/BRJ), 2) informed beetroot juice/given placebo (BRJ/PLA), 3) informed placebo/given beetroot juice (PLA/BRJ), and 4) informed placebo/given placebo (PLA/PLA). Mean (+/- standard deviation) changes in power output (W) between baseline and experimental trials for each group were: BRJ/BRJ = 2.06 +/- 2.81, BRJ/PLA = 4.29 +/- 2.81, PLA/BRJ = -0.12 +/- 2.81, PLA/PLA = 3.06 +/- 2.90. Linear mixed-effects models revealed that neither the expectation, actual supplementation, or the interaction between expectation and supplement changed between baseline and experimental trials for all groups (chi(2) <= 5.15, all p >=.05). Similar results were found for relative power, speed, distance, heart rate and cadence (chi(2) <= 5.15, all p >=.05). Our results suggest that in comparison to baseline, cycling performance over 20-min virtual time-trials did not change when participants received an acute dose of beetroot juice both openly and deceptively. Similarly, the expectation that beetroot juice had been received did not change any outcomes. In short, physiological and placebo effects of an acute dose of beetroot juice did not change 20-min time-trial performance during a virtual cycling platform.		[Matta, Guilherme; Hurst, Philip] Canterbury Christ Church Univ, Canterbury, England; [Edwards, Andrew] Educ Univ Hong Kong, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [Roelands, Bart] Vrije Univ Brussel, Ixelles, Belgium; [Hettinga, Florentina] Vrije Univ Amsterdam, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Hurst, Philip] Canterbury Christ Church Univ, Sch Psychol & Life Sci, North Holmes Rd, Canterbury CT11QU, Kent, England								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001727825500001	41	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Tozetto, Willen Remon; Lima, Claudio Olivio Vilela; Durand-Bush, Natalie; Milistetd, Michel								An Integrated Analysis of Environmental, Team, and Parental Relations on Psychosocial Skills Development and Their Association With the Mental Health of Adolescent Athletes								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT											10.1080/02701367.2026.2624723				2026	The development of psychosocial skills in youth athletes is related to multiple sports' subsystems, including parental, team, and environmental factors. These subsystems shape athletes' ability to acquire life skills, cope with stress, and build resilience which influence mental health. Understanding these interactions is essential for designing effective interventions that promote well-being and protect against mental illness. This study examined how subsystems within the youth sport system relate to psychosocial skills and their relation to athletes' mental health. A quantitative, cross-sectional design was employed, and Structural Equation Modeling analyzed pathways. Validated instruments assessed parenting behavior (EMBU-P), coach-athlete relationship (CART-Q), life skills (LSSS), coping (ACSI-28), resilience (SRS), sport well-being (S-MHC), and psychosocial difficulties (SDQ). The sample comprised 312 athletes (13.9 +/- 1.9 years) from two Brazilian regions, one from a nationally renowned club and another from a microregion. Athletes from the microregion reported lower levels of life skills, but higher levels of psychological resilience and greater psychosocial difficulties. The coach-athlete relationship played an essential role in fostering life skills and sport well-being. Parenting behavior was positively associated with life skills and coping skills and negatively related to psychosocial difficulties. Life skills, coping skills and psychological resilience were positively associated with sport well-being, reinforcing their role in psychosocial adaptation. Psychological resilience was the only skill linked to reducing psychosocial difficulties. The findings highlight the distinct, positive roles of the coach-athlete relationship and parenting behavior in fostering psychosocial skills, while underscoring the complex (something opposing) influence of the region and type of sport on specific skills.		[Tozetto, Willen Remon; Lima, Claudio Olivio Vilela; Milistetd, Michel] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Florianopolis, Brazil; [Durand-Bush, Natalie] Univ Ottawa, Ottawa, ON, Canada; [Tozetto, Willen Remon] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Dept Phys Educ, Sports Ctr CDS,Vereador Freder Veras St S-N, BR-88040000 Florianopolis, SC, Brazil								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001723406100001	45	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Fischer, Gabriela; Kons, Rafael L.; da Silva, Kayus Cesar; Pavani, Ricardo Moraes; Berton, Danilo C.; Detanico, Daniele; Peyre-Tartaruga, Leonardo Alexandre								Inspiratory muscle training in wheelchair athletes: Effects on respiratory function and para fencing performance								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				78						101900	10.1016/j.ptsp.2026.101900			MAR 2026	2026	Objectives: This study aimed to examine the effects of inspiratory muscle training (IMT) on respiratory function and Para Fencing (PF) performance, and to investigate the relationship between a PF-specific wheelchair protocol and arm-crank ergometer performance. Design: A pre-post intervention case series. Setting: Laboratory-based assessments. Participants: Five Para Fencing athletes with spinal cord injury (T1-L1), classified as classes A and B. Main outcome measures: Pulmonary function, maximal inspiratory (PImax) and expiratory pressures (PEmax), cardiopulmonary exercise testing using an arm-crank ergometer, blood lactate peak, and performance in a PFspecific wheelchair protocol. Results: Following six weeks of IMT, PImax and PEmax increased by 10.9% and 15.5%, respectively, indicating improved respiratory muscle strength. Blood lactate peak showed a large effect size (0.87) after training. A strong correlation was observed between the duration of the PF-specific protocol and peak oxygen uptake obtained from the arm-crank ergometer test (r = 0.90; p = 0.037). Conclusions: Aerobic capacity appears to be strongly associated with PF performance. Although IMT significantly improved respiratory muscle function, its direct impact on sport-specific performance remains inconclusive in this sample.		[Fischer, Gabriela; da Silva, Kayus Cesar; Pavani, Ricardo Moraes; Detanico, Daniele] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Ctr Sports CDS, Biomech Lab, Florianopolis, SC, Brazil; [Kons, Rafael L.] Univ Fed Bahia, Dept Phys Educ, Salvador, Brazil; [Berton, Danilo C.] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Sul, Hosp Clin Porto Alegre, Programa Posgrad Ciencias Pneumol, Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil; [Peyre-Tartaruga, Leonardo Alexandre] Univ Pavia, Dept Publ Hlth Expt & Forens Med, Human Locomot Lab, LocoLab, Pavia, Italy; [Peyre-Tartaruga, Leonardo Alexandre] Univ Republica, Fac Med, Unidad Academ Biofis, Montevideo, Uruguay; [Fischer, Gabriela] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Ctr Desportos, Lab Biomecan, BR-88040900 Florianopolis, SC, Brazil								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001693659600001	37	Article; Article		
J	Griesinger, Alex Nico; Ehnold, Peter; Zetzsche, Robert; Schlesinger, Torsten								Are they heading in the same direction? An analysis of goal perspectives among key stakeholders in junior elite sport								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261426924				2026	In junior elite sport, the shared pursuit of holistic goals is crucial for effective talent development and promotion. This study examines how coaches, managers and athletes in Germany evaluate holistic goals of talent development and promotion and how assessments differ within and across groups. Online questionnaires yielded 786 valid responses (coaches: n = 156; managers: n = 146; athletes: n = 484). Wilcoxon rank-sum, Kruskal-Wallis and Chi-square tests were used for intra- and intergroup analyses. Results show that coaches and managers emphasise sporting and non-sporting developmental goals over competition goals, with marginal differences linked to employment status, field of activity, qualifications and prior experience as an elite athlete. Junior elite athletes focus more on competition goals, though responses display considerable individual variation, partly associated with squad status. The findings highlight the need for aligned goal-setting frameworks and further applied research on goal-setting in junior elite sport.		[Griesinger, Alex Nico] Inst Appl Training Sci, Dept Jr Elite Sport, Leipzig, Germany; [Griesinger, Alex Nico; Zetzsche, Robert; Schlesinger, Torsten] Tech Univ Chemnitz, Inst Human Movement Sci & Hlth, Chemnitz, Germany; [Ehnold, Peter] IST Univ Appl Sci Dusseldorf, Dept Sport & Management, Dusseldorf, Germany; [Griesinger, Alex Nico] Inst Appl Training Sci, Dept Jr Elite Sport, Leipzig, Germany; [Griesinger, Alex Nico] Tech Univ Chemnitz, Inst Human Movement Sci & Hlth, Chemnitz, Germany								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001721480200001	71	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Goel, Samridh; Chetiya, Anuradha Rajkonwar								Pythagorean expectation for predicting winning percentages in women's limited-over cricket								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261428790				2026	The Pythagorean Expectation can be used to calculate expected winning percentage in various sports. This metric was developed by baseball statistician Bill James and has since been adapted in many sports, including cricket. This study examines the application of the Pythagorean Expectation to estimate winning percentages in women's limited over cricket. The traditional method of calculating a team's winning percentage in cricket does not account for the margin of victory, defined as the difference between runs scored and runs allowed in a match. The Pythagorean Expectation takes into account both runs allowed and runs scored to provide a better representation of a team's strength over a period of time in terms of the offensive and defensive output of a team. When utilized with historical data, this metric can provide insights into a team's capacity to perform effectively in critical game situations. Eight women's cricket teams of the International Cricket Council (ICC) were selected for the study across two limited-over cricket formats -Twenty20 (T20) and One Day International (ODI).		[Goel, Samridh; Chetiya, Anuradha Rajkonwar] Univ Delhi, Ramjas Coll, Dept Stat, Delhi, India; [Chetiya, Anuradha Rajkonwar] Univ Delhi, Ramjas Coll, Dept Stat, Delhi, India								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001719284100001	15	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Liu, Huimin; Gao, Xiaoran; Wang, Huan; Zhou, Lulu; Feng, Ran								Optimizing coach-athlete relationships: How team identification, emotional intelligence, and age influence the effects of perceived coach behavior								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261430599				2026	Objective Although coach-athlete relationships (CAR) have been widely studied, less is known about how perceived coach behavior (PCB) operates through group-based identity processes and how individual emotion regulation and developmental factors shape this mechanism. Drawing on Social Identity Theory and Emotion Regulation Theory, this study examined a dual-moderated mediation model in which team identification (TI) mediates the association between PCB and CAR, with emotional intelligence (EI) and age defining key boundary conditions.Methods A cross-sectional questionnaire survey was conducted among 581 athletes from provincial-level competitive sports teams in China.Results Positive coaching behaviors strengthened CAR indirectly by enhancing athletes' team identification, whereas autocratic behavior undermined this relationship by weakening TI. Moreover, EI moderated the TI-CAR pathway, such that TI was a stronger predictor of CAR among athletes with lower EI. This moderating effect was further conditioned by age, remaining significant among younger athletes but diminishing and becoming non-significant among older athletes.Conclusion These findings advance research on coach-athlete relationships by integrating group-based identity processes with individual emotion regulation and developmental perspectives. From a practical perspective, the results suggest that fostering team identity may be particularly effective for younger or lower-EI athletes, whereas more individualized leadership and communication strategies may be more appropriate for older or emotionally intelligent athletes.		[Liu, Huimin; Wang, Huan] Beijing Sport Univ, Sch Psychol, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Gao, Xiaoran] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Psychol, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Zhou, Lulu] Hengshui Univ, Dept Educ, Hengshui 053000, Peoples R China; [Feng, Ran] Shandong Univ Technol, Sch Phys Educ, Zibo 255000, Peoples R China; [Feng, Ran] Capital Univ Phys Educ & Sports, Sports & Med Integrat Res Ctr, Beijing 100091, Peoples R China; [Zhou, Lulu] Hengshui Univ, Dept Educ, Hengshui 053000, Peoples R China; [Feng, Ran] Shandong Univ Technol, Sch Phys Educ, Zibo 255000, Peoples R China; [Feng, Ran] Capital Univ Phys Educ & Sports, Sports & Med Integrat Res Ctr, Beijing 100091, Peoples R China								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001718951100001	40	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Leung, Willie; Tiralla, Gillian; Shi, Lu; Lee, Jinhyun								Associations Between Demographic Factors and Muscle-Strengthening Activity Participation Among Individuals With Disabilities								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT											10.1080/02701367.2026.2612967				2026	The purpose of the current study was to examine the association between muscle-strengthening activity (MSA) participation and demographic characteristics among individuals with disabilities, using a nationally representative sample of U.S. adults with disabilities. Adults with disabilities from the 2017-2019 Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System were included in the analysis. Participants self-reported weekly MSA, which was used to classify MSA engagement and adherence to current guidelines (>= 2 times/week). Demographic characteristics, including age, sex, race, body mass index, marital status, education, employment, and income, were examined for associations with MSA participation. Survey-weighted quasi-Poisson regression was used to analyze MSA frequency, while logistic regression was used to assess engagement in any MSA and meeting MSA guidelines. Among 184,720 participants with disabilities, the average MSA frequency was 1.26 times per week (95% CI [1.26, 1.28]). Overall, 63.32% (95% CI [62.84, 63.79]) of participants did not engage in any MSA, and 73.15% (95% CI [72.71, 73.59]) did not meet the MSA guideline. All examined demographic characteristics were significantly associated with MSA participation, though the observed effects were modest in magnitude (p < .05). While the cross-sectional design limits the ability to establish temporal relationships, a large proportion of adults with disabilities reported not engaging in MSA. Similar to patterns observed in the general population, multiple demographic factors were found to be associated with MSA participation among individuals with disabilities.		[Leung, Willie] Univ Tampa, Tampa, FL USA; [Tiralla, Gillian] East Carolina Univ, Greenville, NC USA; [Shi, Lu] Tufts Med Ctr, Natick, MA USA; [Lee, Jinhyun] Univ Texas Permian Basin, Permian Basin, TX USA; [Leung, Willie] Univ Tampa, Coll Nat & Hlth Sci, Dept Hlth Sci & Human Performance, 401 North Blvd,HSHP 30F, Tampa, FL 33606 USA								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001719588900001	49	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Williksen, Elias; Tonnessen, Espen								Talent identification, talent selection, and talent development of early- and late-maturing players at a Norwegian elite soccer academy								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261427009				2026	Aim The aim of this study was to explore the experiences of early- and late-maturing players, their parents, and coaches regarding the talent identification, talent selection, and talent development practices at an elite soccer academy in Norway.Method A mixed methods case design was employed, combining semi-structured in-depth interviews with questionnaires. The experiences of six players, their parents (n = 7), and coaches (n = 4) were mapped to illuminate the academy's practice.Results Players' soccer skills and psychological attributes were highlighted as the two most important factors in the talent identification and selection process. The quality of soccer training, competent coaches, and soccer matches were considered the most crucial factors for a successful talent development. Across all participant groups, experiences indicated that players' day-to-day development was shaped more by soccer skills, psychological attributes, coaching quality, and training and match opportunities than by maturation timing. Participants described the academy's long-term, individualized philosophy as reducing the impact of maturation differences on both identification, selection, and development processes.Conclusion This study provides novel insights into how players, their parents, and coaches experience the processes of identification, selection, and development of young talents at a Norwegian elite soccer academy. A major strength of the academy lies in its implementation of knowledge about growth and maturation to optimize its talent identification, selection, and development process, thereby contributing to bridging the gap between scientific research and practical application.		[Williksen, Elias] Univ Stavanger, Dept Educ & Sports Sci, Stavanger, Norway; [Tonnessen, Espen] Kristiania Univ Appl Sci, Sch Hlth Sci, Oslo, Norway; [Williksen, Elias] Univ Stavanger, Dept Educ & Sports Sci, Stavanger, Norway								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001718843000001	93	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Bhattacharjee, Bireshwar; Bhattacharjee, Bishweshwar; Dutta, Anirban								The impact of weather variability in inducing missed chances: A statistical insight for fielding coaches in cricket								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261428255				2026	In cricket, fielding performance often plays a crucial role in determining match outcomes, and missed chances, such as dropped catches, missed run-outs, and stumpings, often become the fine line between victory and defeat. While skill-related factors underlying such events have been widely discussed, relatively little attention has been given to the role of external match conditions. The study examines the relationship between weather-related variables and missed opportunities in professional cricket by analyzing match-level data across multiple leagues. Descriptive analysis indicates that teams, on average, miss two chances per match, with notable variation across leagues. To assess the relationship between weather conditions and missed chances, a Poisson regression model with fixed league effects is employed. The results reveal that temperature, dew, and match timing are significantly associated with the frequency of missed chances. The study also conducts a robustness check by incorporating a fixed ground effect, confirming the model's generalizability. The findings provide empirical insights into how environmental conditions influence fielding outcomes and offer practical implications for the preparation strategies of coaches and players under varying weather conditions.		[Bhattacharjee, Bireshwar] Gurucharan Univ, Dept Stat, Silchar, Assam, India; [Bhattacharjee, Bishweshwar] Assam Univ, Dept Econ, Silchar, Assam, India; [Dutta, Anirban] Assam Univ, Dept Stat, Silchar, Assam, India; [Bhattacharjee, Bireshwar] Gurucharan Univ, Dept Stat, Silchar, Assam, India								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001717036600001	36	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Miyazaki, Terumitsu; Kubota, Hirotomo; Fujii, Norihisa								Differences in support leg kinetics between non-sprinters and sprinters during maximal speed sprinting								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261429275				2026	In general, non-sprinters (team sport athletes) exhibit lower sprint performance than sprinters. The differences in spatiotemporal and ground reaction force (GRF) variables between non-sprinters and sprinters have been reported previously. The differences may not simply reflect sprint ability but rather sport-specific characteristics, implying variation in joint kinetics. Therefore, this study aimed to examine the differences in lower limb joint kinetics during the stance phase of maximal speed sprinting between non-sprinters and sprinters. Twenty-six male non-sprinters (13 soccer and 13 baseball players) and 12 male sprinters participated. Sprint data around the maximal speed phase were measured using a motion capture system and force plates. Kinetic variables of the lower limb joints and GRFs during the stance phase were compared between the two groups. As a result, maximal sprint speed was lower in non-sprinters (8.53 +/- 0.38 m/s) than in sprinters (9.62 +/- 0.25 m/s). The vertical and anteroposterior GRFs throughout the stance phase were smaller in non-sprinters than in sprinters. Moreover, compared with sprinters, non-sprinters exhibited smaller ankle plantarflexion torques but larger knee and hip extension torques. The results indicate that knee and hip extension torques compensate for insufficient ankle plantarflexion torque in generating vertical and anteroposterior GRFs in non-sprinters. The differences in sprint mechanics between non-sprinters and sprinters might be influenced by differences in sports specificities. Therefore, increasing ankle plantarflexion torque may improve maximal-speed sprint performance in non-sprinters; however, the direct transfer of this suggested modification to short sprints involving frequent changes of direction requires careful consideration.		[Miyazaki, Terumitsu; Kubota, Hirotomo] Natl Inst Fitness & Sports Kanoya, 1 Shiromizu Cho, Kanoya, Kagoshima 8912393, Japan; [Fujii, Norihisa] Univ Tsukuba, Inst Hlth & Sport Sci, Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan; [Miyazaki, Terumitsu] Natl Inst Fitness & Sports Kanoya, 1 Shiromizu Cho, Kanoya, Kagoshima 8912393, Japan								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001717028700001	35	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Yoshida, Takuya; Tai, Kaede; Takahashi, Hikari; Yoshioka, Hiyori; Komine, Tadayuki; Hirashima, Yusuke; Zushi, Amane; Tanigawa, Satoru								Effect of rebound jump improvements on reactive agility performance: Insights into joint mechanics during the takeoff phase								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261429274				2026	The relationship between rebound jump (RJ) performance and lower limb joint mechanics differs depending on task demands, such as pre-planned change of direction (COD) versus unanticipated agility. However, longitudinal associations with agility remain unclear. This study examined improvements in the RJ performance and their relationship with reactive agility performance, focusing on joint mechanics during takeoff. Twenty-five female soccer players completed sprint, RJ, COD, and reactive agility tests during the pre- and mid-seasons. Based on changes in reactive agility time, participants were classified into improved (n = 17) and non-improved (n = 8) groups. Performance variables and RJ takeoff mechanics were analyzed using 3D motion analysis and force plate. Linear mixed models and empirical best linear unbiased predictors were used to assess group effects and individual variability. Paired t-tests were used to evaluate within-group changes. The COD time and RJ-index (jump height/contact time) improved significantly, along with increased ankle negative power and knee eccentric torque. No changes were observed during sprint time and reactive agility time. However, the improved group showed improvements in reactive agility time, RJ performance, and joint mechanics, whereas the non-improved group showed only limited changes. Individual analysis revealed that those with a high baseline RJ-index improved further via increased hip joint output, whereas those with low initial values improved RJ-index, but not reactive agility performance. These findings support plyometric strategies that consider joint-specific eccentric requirements and initial performance characteristics.		[Yoshida, Takuya] Japan Inst Sports Sci, Dept Sports Sci, 3-15-1 Nishigaoka Kita Ku, Tokyo 1150056, Japan; [Tai, Kaede; Takahashi, Hikari; Yoshioka, Hiyori; Komine, Tadayuki] Univ Tsukuba, Grad Sch Comprehens Human Sci, Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan; [Komine, Tadayuki] Japan Football Assoc, JFA Phys Fitness Project, Tokyo, Japan; [Hirashima, Yusuke] Shizuoka Univ, Fac Global Interdisciplinary Sci & Innovat, Shizuoka, Japan; [Zushi, Amane] Tsuru Univ, Dept Teacher Educ, Yamanashi, Japan; [Tanigawa, Satoru] Univ Tsukuba, Inst Hlth & Sport Sci, Ibaraki, Japan; [Yoshida, Takuya] Japan Inst Sports Sci, Dept Sports Sci, 3-15-1 Nishigaoka Kita Ku, Tokyo 1150056, Japan								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001717037400001	38	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Lee, Junghoon; Ehrlich, Justin; Cain, Christopher								The effects of different kinematic sequences of the elite golf swing on clubhead speed								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261429479				2026	Technology has become increasingly ubiquitous in the game of golf, creating new opportunities to measure and analyze various aspects of golfers' movements and performance outcomes. In particular, the application of biomechanics to assess location, sequencing, and velocity has gained significant traction in golf instruction and coaching. The purpose of this study is to examine how different phases of the kinematic sequence influence clubhead speed. Previous research has highlighted the importance of the downswing kinematic sequence, suggesting that efficiency is achieved through the optimal order of movement (pelvis, torso, lead arm, and club). Using data from fourteen elite right-handed male golfers competing on the PGA Tour, Korn Ferry Tour, NCAA, and within the PGA of America, we investigated the extent to which optimal sequencing during the backswing, transition, and downswing phases affects clubhead speed. Two multiple linear regression models were employed to evaluate performance. Findings from our biomechanical swing analysis revealed key insights into the optimal kinematic sequence for maximizing clubhead speed. Furthermore, the study contributes to existing literature by identifying slight variations in sequencing that can yield comparable results to the optimal sequence when clubhead speed is the performance measure. Maintaining the proper order of pelvis, torso, arm, and club during the downswing is critical for optimizing speed, which can ultimately enhance distance and scoring opportunities.		[Lee, Junghoon; Cain, Christopher] Univ Nevada Las Vegas, Harrah Coll Hospitality, 4505 S Maryland Pkwy, Las Vegas, NV 89154 USA; [Ehrlich, Justin] Syracuse Univ, Falk Coll, Syracuse, NY USA; [Lee, Junghoon] Univ Nevada Las Vegas, Harrah Coll Hospitality, 4505 S Maryland Pkwy, Las Vegas, NV 89154 USA								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001717042300001	30	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Goncalves, Luiz Guilherme; Sandi, Paulo Roberto; Kobal, Ronaldo; Lins, Ageu Da Silva; Costa Neves, Paulo Eduardo; Rabelo, Felipe Nunes; Oliveira, Julia; Oliveira, Romario; Domingues, Henrique Cristane; Da Silva, Juliano Fernandes; Aquino, Rodrigo								Positional and Temporal Variability of Match Running Performance in Elite Women's Soccer								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT											10.1080/02701367.2025.2609763				2026	The aims were to: 1) characterize players' physical output during the matches; 2) compare match running performance across four qualification phases according to playing position; 3) compare position-specific running demands; 4) assess match-to-match variability; and 5) compare physical performance between halves. Data were collected via GPS and accelerometry from four professional teams during the 2024 season of the Brazilian Women's First Division League. Sixty-seven elite female players who completed full matches were included (n = 345 individual observations), representing central and external defenders, central midfielders, and forwards. On average, players covered 9138 meters per match, with high-speed running and sprinting comprising approximate to 4% of total distance. Total distance, high-speed running, top speed, and deceleration efforts peaked during the pre-break phase (p < .001-0.041). Central midfielders and external defenders recorded the highest total distances, high-speed running, and PlayerLoad values (p < .001), while forwards achieved the highest top speeds, sprinting, and acceleration/deceleration efforts (p < .001-0.003). Match-to-match variability was greatest for high-speed running and sprinting (CV: 37.6-69.0%), particularly among defenders. Most physical outputs declined from the first to the second half (p < .001-0.047), except for sprinting. These findings support individualized training and context-specific periodization in elite women's soccer.		[Goncalves, Luiz Guilherme; Aquino, Rodrigo] Univ Fed Espirito Santo, Vitoria, ES, Brazil; [Sandi, Paulo Roberto; Da Silva, Juliano Fernandes] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Florianopolis, Brazil; [Kobal, Ronaldo] Sport Club Corinthians Paulista, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Lins, Ageu Da Silva; Costa Neves, Paulo Eduardo] Botafogo Futebol & Regatas, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil; [Rabelo, Felipe Nunes; Oliveira, Julia] Red Bull Bragantino, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Oliveira, Romario; Domingues, Henrique Cristane] Clube Regatas Flamengo, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil; [Aquino, Rodrigo] Univ Fed Espirito Santo, Ctr Phys Educ & Sport CEFD, Postgrad Program Phys Educ, LabSport, Ave Fernando Ferrari 514, BR-29075910 Vitoria, ES, Brazil								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001716869500001	81	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Santiago, Luan; Jorge, Hugo Dias Farias; Basso, Felipe; Vieira, Thales Medina Lanceta; Rosa, Matheus; Toledo-Arruda, Alessandra C.; Reis, Michel Silva								Competing Demands: Acute Effects of Inspiratory Load on Hemodynamics and Vastus Lateralis Deoxygenation During Cycling								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT											10.1080/02701367.2026.2637698				2026	Recently, the combination of inspiratory muscle resistance (IMR) training with aerobic exercise has become a common practice, driven by the expectation of optimizing training outcomes. However, performance during aerobic exercise may be limited by increased respiratory effort and activation of the inspiratory muscle metaboreflex. Despite this, the acute effects of this combined approach are not yet fully understood. Therefore, this study aimed to investigate how inspiratory muscle resistance (IMR) influences performance, cardiovascular responses, and muscle oxygenation in healthy young men. Ten participants completed four visits: (I) cardiopulmonary exercise testing to determine ventilatory anaerobic threshold (VAT), (II) inspiratory muscle strength assessment, and (III-IV) two constant-load cycling sessions, preceded by either IMR at 30% of S-Index or a sham condition at 10%. Exercise tolerance (time to exhaustion, Tlim), heart rate variability (HRV), blood pressure, respiratory rate, and vastus lateralis muscle oxygenation were evaluated. Tlim was significantly reduced in the IMR condition compared to sham (p = .03), indicating decreased exercise tolerance. HRV showed expected autonomic responses during exercise, with no significant differences between conditions. Blood pressure and respiratory rate increased similarly during both sessions. Muscle deoxygenation profiles were generally comparable; however, Near-Infrared Spectroscopy (NIRS) revealed significantly greater deoxyhemoglobin concentration at peak exercise during IMR (p < .05), suggesting enhanced muscle oxygen extraction. In conclusion, IMR combined with aerobic exercise acutely reduces exercise tolerance but does not exacerbate cardiovascular stress, supporting its safety in healthy individuals. Nevertheless, increased metabolic demand may explain the reduced endurance observed.		[Santiago, Luan; Jorge, Hugo Dias Farias; Basso, Felipe; Vieira, Thales Medina Lanceta; Rosa, Matheus; Toledo-Arruda, Alessandra C.; Reis, Michel Silva] Univ Fed Rio de Janeiro, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil; [Reis, Michel Silva] Fed Univ Rio Janeiro, Fac Phys Therapy, Postgrad Program Rehabil Sci, Lab Res Grp Cardioresp Evaluat & Rehabil GECARE, Prof Rodolpho Paulo Rocco St,255,2nd Floor, BR-21941913 Rio De Janeiro, RJ, Brazil								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001716831400001	19	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	David, Alexander; Raabe, Dominik; Redlich, Dennis								How to score: Individual and team determinants of 7 m throw performances in men's German Handball Bundesliga								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261429375				2026	To better understand performance at 7-meter penalty throw (7 m throw), we investigated the effect of behavioral aspects of goalkeepers and throwers as well as general aspects as team strengths on the scoring efficiency. We analyzed 11,009 7 m throws from three seasons of the German Handball Bundesliga. The analysis was conducted using statistical methods, including chi-square tests and ANOVA, to examine the relationships between these factors and the likelihood of scoring. Our results show that successful teams are awarded with more 7 m throws and have higher scoring efficiency compared to less successful teams. Furthermore, behavioral aspects as throwing type and throwing direction influence the scoring efficiency. In contrast mixed or no effects have been found for the number of fakes and hesitations, or position of the goalkeeper, respectively. Based on these findings and their discussion we offer practical recommendation to improve scoring and defending efficiencies at 7 m throws. Throwers should prioritize technical decision-making and precision, as advanced shot techniques are more effective than basic deceptive moves like fakes. Goalkeeper positioning, especially offensive positioning, plays a crucial role in forcing misses and should be recognized as a key aspect of goalkeeper performance. Furthermore, we speculate that single behavioral aspects might not be the major aspects for the outcome of a 7 m throw, rather psychological aspects should be considered to further understand performance at 7 m throws in team-handball.		[David, Alexander; Raabe, Dominik] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Exercise Training & Sport Informat, Cologne, Germany; [David, Alexander] Univ Bielefeld, Tech Fac, Univ Str 25, D-33615 Bielefeld, Germany; [Redlich, Dennis] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Psychol, Cologne, Germany; [David, Alexander] Univ Bielefeld, Tech Fac, Univ Str 25, D-33615 Bielefeld, Germany								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001710958600001	46	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Delafont, Remi; Derycke, Sylvaine; Joncheray, Helene								Tracing career paths in high-performance sport: Identifying key patterns and professional role typology								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541251406864				2026	This paper investigates career paths in high-performance sport (HPS) by analysing how professionals-both women and men-enter and develop their careers in the French Olympic sector. While existing research tends to focus on coaching-related roles, little is known about career paths across a broader range of HPS roles, particularly through a gender-comparative lens. Drawing on a processual and interpretivist framework rooted in symbolic interactionism, the study analyses data from 24 semi-structured interviews with professionals occupying diverse positions. Using an abductive approach and cross-analysis, the research identifies key patterns at both entry and development stages, leading to the identification of three ideal types of career paths: (1) established professionals, anchored in institutional continuity; (2) polyvalent and mobile professionals, who navigate fragmented and adaptive careers; and (3) specialists, whose trajectories are delayed but stabilised through expertise and credentials. The findings highlight that career paths are shaped less by role category than by cumulative advantages, resource mobilisation and situated opportunities. The typology cuts across gender and job categories, illustrating that similar career configurations can emerge in different roles and contexts. The study contributes a flexible interpretive framework for analysing career development in evolving, multi-employer sports systems. It also calls for more inclusive and transparent pathways that account for institutional logics, gendered constraints, and the diversity of roles supporting Olympic athletes and teams.		[Delafont, Remi; Joncheray, Helene] French Inst Sport INSEP, Lab Sport Expertise & Performance EA 7370, Paris, France; [Delafont, Remi; Joncheray, Helene] Paris Cite Univ, Paris, France; [Derycke, Sylvaine] Ctr Rech Bretonne & Celt UR 4451 UAR 3555, Brest, France; [Derycke, Sylvaine] Univ Western Brittany, Brest, France; [Joncheray, Helene] Paris Inst Sports & Hlth Sci URP 3625, Paris, France; [Joncheray, Helene] French Inst Sport, 11 Ave Tremblay, F-75012 Paris, France								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001709201900001	103	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Dillon, Morgan; Frappa, Nicholas; Mastroianni, Michael A.; Ablove, Robert A.; Nicholson, Kristen F.								Direct arm angle versus release-based proxies in Major League Baseball pitchers: a large-scale validation study								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2026.2638934				2026	Arm slot has been implicated in pitching biomechanics and injury risk, yet large-scale studies relied on indirect release-based proxies, yielding contradictory findings. With Statcast's Hawk-Eye system providing an anatomically defined measure of arm angle, this study evaluated how well surrogate metrics track fluctuations in true arm orientation. We analysed Major League Baseball pitchers using two approaches: (1) a year-over-year comparison of 336 pitchers who threw >= 100 four-seam fastballs in both 2023 and 2024, and (2) a pitch-level analysis of 63,824 four-seam fastballs from the 10 highest-volume pitchers between 2020 and 2025. In the season-over-season analysis, vertical release position changes correlated most strongly with arm angle changes (r = 0.74, rho = 0.68; p < 0.001), whereas a geometric proxy showed moderate correlation (r = 0.47, rho = 0.51; p < 0.001), and horizontal release was inversely correlated (r = -0.38, rho = -0.41; p < 0.001). Pitch-level analyses revealed similar patterns, with vertical release consistently tracking short-term arm angle drift (r = 0.35-0.71). These findings show release-based proxies only partially track true arm angle. While vertical release is the strongest proxy, fidelity varies across pitchers and timeframes. This variability complicates the interpretation of prior injury-risk literature, highlighting the importance of incorporating direct arm angle into future biomechanical research to better investigate pitching mechanics and injury mechanisms.		[Dillon, Morgan; Frappa, Nicholas] SUNY Buffalo, Jacobs Sch Med & Biomed Sci, Buffalo, NY 14260 USA; [Mastroianni, Michael A.] Columbia Univ, Irving Med Ctr, New York Presbyterian Hosp, Dept Orthoped Surg, New York, NY USA; [Ablove, Robert A.] SUNY Buffalo, Dept Orthopaed & Sports Med, Buffalo, NY USA; [Nicholson, Kristen F.] Wake Forest Univ, Sch Med, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Winston Salem, NC USA; [Dillon, Morgan] SUNY Buffalo, Jacobs Sch Med & Biomed Sci, Buffalo, NY 14260 USA								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001707795000001	20	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Cronwright, Andrew Rj; Lascu, Alex; Hinck, Kris; Kenneally-Dabrowski, Claire; Dwyer, Dan B.; Feros, Simon A.								Community cricket coaches are ill-equipped for technical coaching of pace bowlers: A survey of Australian coaches								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	4			2123	2136		10.1177/17479541261421423			AUG 2026	2026	Engagement with technical coaching in community-level cricket remains underexplored, particularly in relation to pace bowling, despite its potential to influence both performance and injury. Pace bowlers are crucial to team success, yet experience the highest injury risk of all playing positions. Specific technique factors are associated with increased ball release speed as well as higher risk of lumbar bone stress injury. If coaches understand pace bowling technique as it relates to performance and injury mechanisms, they may be better equipped to enhance technique and mitigate injury. This study aimed to describe the technical pace bowling coaching practices and knowledge of community-level cricket coaches in Australia. A cross-sectional survey design with purposive sampling was used. One hundred forty-four coaches with at least one season of coaching experience completed an online survey. Eighty percent reported engaging in technical coaching at least 'sometimes', and 83% perceived their knowledge to be 'moderate', 'high', or 'expert'. Despite this, coaches provided only superficial detail on how they coach pace bowlers to improve performance and reduce injury risk. Over 60% of coaches held lower-level accreditation (Level 1 or below), with informal learning methods being most prevalent. Findings suggest a misalignment between coaches perceived and actual knowledge of pace bowling technique, particularly in relation to performance enhancement and injury mitigation. This misalignment is likely due to lower-level coach accreditation courses lacking technical coaching content, combined with coaches' reliance on informal forms of knowledge acquisition without a foundational knowledge base of pace bowling.		[Cronwright, Andrew Rj; Hinck, Kris; Kenneally-Dabrowski, Claire; Dwyer, Dan B.; Feros, Simon A.] Deakin Univ, Ctr Sport Res CSR, Sch Exercise & Nutr Sci, 75 Pigdons Rd, Geelong, Vic 3216, Australia; [Lascu, Alex] Univ Canberra, Fac Hlth, Discipline Exercise & Sport Sci, Bruce, ACT, Australia; [Cronwright, Andrew Rj] Deakin Univ, Ctr Sport Res CSR, Sch Exercise & Nutr Sci, 75 Pigdons Rd, Geelong, Vic 3216, Australia								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001705364300001	55	Article; Article		
J	Johnson, Matthew; Wells, Samuel; Carey, David L.								Analysing serves in para table tennis: Modelling advantage and clustering points								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261426425				2026	In racquet sports, the serve is considered an important aspect of performance and tactical match play. This is also the case in Para table tennis, yet the advantage of the server and how it differs across impairment classes has not been established. This study aimed to model serve advantage in Para table tennis, as well as provide a framework for identifying serve-return tactics. A convenience sample of shot-level data from 71 Para table tennis matches completed during the 2021-2024 Paralympic cycle were analysed. The win probability of the server, conditioned on shot turn and shot number, was modelled using Bayesian hierarchical logistic regression. A two-step clustering process was used to identify recurring point characteristics using the bounce locations of the first four shots of a rally. The estimated advantage within a point alternated such that the point win probability was lower for whichever players turn it was to play a shot. The exception was the serve, meaning that the server had a higher point win probability for the first two shots in a rally before the alternating pattern began. There were no clear differences in the serve advantage model between impairment classes. Point cluster frequencies differed by class in the sample of matches analysed. These findings suggest that, in the sample of athletes considered, the magnitude of serve advantage does not differ between impairment classes, despite potential differences in shot location characteristics.		[Johnson, Matthew; Carey, David L.] La Trobe Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Human Serv & Sport, Sport Performance & Nutr Res Grp, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Wells, Samuel] Table Tennis Australia, Melbourne, Australia; [Carey, David L.] La Trobe Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Human Serv & Sport, Sport Performance & Nutr Res Grp, Melbourne, Vic, Australia								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001704201200001	25	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Han, Xinjie; Chen, Jiawei; Xu, Weiqiang; Trybulski, Robert; Kawczynski, Adam; Kisilewicz, Aleksandra; Clemente, Filipe Manuel								Comparing The Effects of Small-Sided Handball Games and High-Intensity Interval Training on The Physical Health and Fitness of Untrained Individuals: A 16-Week Randomized Controlled Study								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				25	1			16	33		10.52082/jssm.2026.16			MAR 2026	2026	This study aimed to compare the effects of small-sided games (SSG) and high-intensity interval training (HIIT) on the physical health and fitness of sedentary, untrained young adults. A 16-week randomized controlled trial was conducted with 90 participants (mean age 19.82 +/- 0.66 years; 45 males and 45 females), who were randomly assigned in a 1:1:1 ratio to either the SSG group, the HIIT group, or a non-training control group (CG). Each group included 30 participants, and all participants completed the intervention. All interventions were performed three times per week. The SSG group participated in 4v4 or 6v6 handball games, while the HIIT group completed 30-30 (30 s sprint/30 s active recovery) or 40-20 (40 s sprint/20 s active recovery) protocols on an outdoor rubber track at 80-85% of their maximum heart rate (HRmax). Measured outcomes included physiological indicators (body weight, body mass index [BMI], systolic/diastolic blood pressure [SBP/DBP], and resting heart rate [RHR]) and fitness indicators (grip strength, one-repetition maximum squat [1RM], 20-meter multistage fitness test [20 m MFT] performance, and maximal oxygen uptake [VO2max]). Baseline characteristics were well balanced across groups (standardized mean differences < 0.50). After 16 weeks, both SSG and HIIT significantly reduced body weight, BMI, SBP, DBP, and RHR (p < 0.01), while significantly improving 1RM squat, 20 m MFT performance, and VO2max (p < 0.01). In contrast, the CG group showed significant decreases in SBP, left-hand grip strength, and 1RM squat (p < 0.05). Between-group analyses indicated that SSG and HIIT produced substantially greater improvements than the CG in cardiometabolic outcomes, for example, VO2max increased by approximately 7 mL center dot kg-1 center dot min-1 in both training groups, whereas it showed little or no change in the CG. For body weight and BMI, only body weight differed significantly between the SSG and CG groups (p < 0.05). No significant between-group differences were observed in grip strength (p > 0.05), and no significant differences were found between the SSG and HIIT groups across any indicators (all p > 0.05). In conclusion, both SSG and HIIT effectively improved physical health and fitness in sedentary young adults. SSG may be more suitable for individuals seeking an enjoyable, game-based approach that supports upper limb strength development, while HIIT may be preferable for those aiming to enhance aerobic fitness efficiently. Because SSG offers an enjoyable, socially interactive, game-based format and HIIT provides a time-efficient, highly structured format, both modalities may promote sustained participation beyond initial adoption in previously inactive young adults.		[Han, Xinjie; Xu, Weiqiang; Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, Gdansk, Poland; [Chen, Jiawei] Hunan Mech & Elect Polytech, Changsha, Hunan, Peoples R China; [Trybulski, Robert] Provita Zory Med Ctr, Zory, Poland; [Trybulski, Robert] Wroclaw Univ Hlth & Sport Sci, Dept Sport Didact, Wroclaw, Poland; [Kawczynski, Adam; Kisilewicz, Aleksandra] Wroclaw Univ Sci & Technol, Fac Med, Wroclaw, Poland; [Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, Gdansk, Poland								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001628865400001	95	Article; Article		
J	Barrett, Catherine; Gene-Morales, Javier; Lawson, Ethan; Shea, Ashley; Neal, Jasmine; Sheppard, Aimee; Squires, Megan; Behm, David G.								Participant and Researcher Perceptions of Stretching Intensity and Muscle Tension in A Hamstrings and Shoulder Stretch in Healthy Young Adults								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				25	1			262	271		10.52082/jssm.2026.262			MAR 2026	2026	Stretching research and practice relies heavily on internal and clinical perceptions of stretching sensation to prescribe intensity due to the lack of equipment required. No research has assessed the relationship between internal and external perceptions of stretch intensity. The purpose of this study was to assess the relationship between participants' stretch sensation and researchers' perception of muscle tension in two passive stretches; supine hip flexion and shoulder extension. Training status and stretching experience were considered with the 18 young adult participants. Joint angles at which participants signaled initial stretch sensation and maximum tolerable stretch for each protocol were recorded by a secondary researcher. The blinded primary researcher recorded joint angles where initial tension and maximum tension were perceived as they executed passive stretching of the participant. While there was evidence of greater hip flexion ROM for women, athletes, participants with stretching experience, as well as with stretching to maximum versus initial point of discomfort, there were no significant differences between the participants and researcher's measurements at initial or maximum endpoints, however correlation and agreement between participant and researcher perceptions were variable. There was an overall large trained individuals and stretching experience. Shoulder extension stretching intensity prescription and scale development.		[Barrett, Catherine; Lawson, Ethan; Shea, Ashley; Neal, Jasmine; Sheppard, Aimee; Squires, Megan; Behm, David G.] Mem Univ Newfoundland, Sch Human Kinet & Recreat, St John, NF A1C 5S7, Canada; [Gene-Morales, Javier] Univ Valencia, Dept Phys Act & Sport Sci, Valencia, Spain; [Behm, David G.] Mem Univ Newfoundland, Sch Human Kinet & Recreat, St John, NF A1C 5S7, Canada								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001671455200001	39	Article; Article		
J	Ren, Fang; Zhao, Xing; Qu, Sha								Is Higher Frequency Always Better? The Dose-Response Relationship Between Structured Physical Activity Frequency and Physical Fitness Improvement in Preschool Children								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				25	1			291	302		10.52082/jssm.2026.291			MAR 2026	2026	This study investigated the dose-response relationship between structured physical activity frequency and improvements in physical fitness in preschool children. Sixty-three children (3-6 years) were divided according to weekly participation frequency in a 12-week structured physical training program (60 min/session): low frequency (L, <= 1 session/week), moderate frequency (M, 1-2 sessions/week), moderate-to-high frequency (MH, 2-3 sessions/week), and high frequency (H, >= 3 sessions/week). Physical fitness was assessed before and after the intervention using six standardized motor tests. These tests included walking the balance beam, 10 m x 2 shuttle run, tennis throwing, continuous jumping with both feet, standing long jump, and sit-and-reach. A 2 (Time: prevs post-intervention) x 4 (Group: L/M/MH/H) repeated-measures ANOVA was used to analyze changes within and between groups.Significant time x group interactions were found for walking the balance beam, 10 m x 2 shuttle run, tennis throwing, continuous jumping with both feet, and standing long jump (p < 0.05), but not for sit-and-reach flexibility. Post-hoc analyses revealed that the H group performed better than L across all five indicators and outperformed M in the 10 m x 2 shuttle run, tennis throwing, and standing long jump (p < 0.05). The MH group demonstrated better performance than the L group in the balance beam walk, 10 m x 2 shuttle run, and tennis throwing. However, no significant differences were observed between the MH and H groups at post-test. These findings indicate that participating in structured physical activity fewer than two sessions per week is insufficient to enhance preschool children's physical fitness. In contrast, engagement at least twice per week significantly improves key indicators of strength, coordination, and agility. However, performance reach a performance plateau when frequency exceeds three sessions per week, suggesting diminishing marginal returns. Incorporating moderate-to-high frequency structured physical activity into preschool curricula may thus be an efficient strategy for optimizing fitness development in early childhood. Taken together, these findings emphasize the need for at least two weekly sessions of structured physical activity to effectively enhance physical fitness in preschool children.		[Ren, Fang; Zhao, Xing; Qu, Sha] Beijing Sport Univ, Sch Sport Sci, Beijing 100000, Peoples R China; [Zhao, Xing] Beijing Sport Univ, Sch Sport Sci, Beijing 100000, Peoples R China								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001677469200001	42	Article; Article		
J	Zhu, Dongming								Scoring and Possession Small-Sided Games Elicit Distinct 48-Hour Muscle Damage and Neuromuscular Responses in Basketball Athletes								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				25	1			221	234		10.52082/jssm.2026.221			MAR 2026	2026	Small-sided games (SSGs) are widely used in basketball, yet the specific recovery demands imposed by different SSG formats remain unclear. Therefore, the aim of this study was to compare acute and short-term physiological and neuromuscular responses session-oriented (SSGpossession), and a control condition with no SSGs conducted (CON). Thirty-six trained basketball players completed all three conditions in a randomized crossover repain threshold (PPT), visual analogue scale (VAS) soreness, and reactive strength index (RSI) were assessed at baseline, post, 24 h, and 48 h. There were significant condition x time interactions for CK (p < 0.001), PPT (p < 0.001), VAS (p < 0.001), and RSI (p < 0.001). CK increased most in SSGbasket, exceeding SSGpossession and CON at 24 h and 48 h (all p < 0.001). PPT decreased significantly at all post-exercise time points in SSGbasket and SSGpossession compared with CON (all p < 0.01), with SSGbasket showing the lowest values at 24 h (p < 0.001). VAS soreness was substantially higher in SSGbasket vs. the other conditions immediately post, at 24 h, and at 48 h (all p < 0.001). RSI decreased significantly from baseline in all formats (p < 0.001), but impairments were largest and most prolonged after SSGbasket compared with SSGpossession and CON (all p < 0.001). In conclusion, scoring-oriented SSGbasket elicits larger changes in salivary CK, soreness, and neuromuscular function than possession-oriented SSGbasket or the control training day used in this protocol, requiring careful scheduling within the basketball microcycle.		[Zhu, Dongming] Nanchang Inst Sci & Technol, Coll Sports & Hlth, Nanchang 330100, Peoples R China; [Zhu, Dongming] Nanchang Inst Sci & Technol, Coll Sports & Hlth, Nanchang 330100, Peoples R China								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001655775100001	35	Article; Article		
J	Peng, Wuwen; Qu, Wenhao; Lu, Di; Sun, Jian; Li, Duanying								The Effects of Individualized Low- and Moderate-Load Circuit Training on Physical Performance, Hormonal Responses, And Hematological Adaptations in Resistance-Trained Men								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				25	1			195	210		10.52082/jssm.2026.195			MAR 2026	2026	This study aimed to compare the effects of low-load circuit training (LL-CT) and moderate-load circuit training (ML-CT) on physical performance adaptations, hormonal responses, and hematological parameters in resistance-trained men. Thirty-two resistance-trained males (age 20.31 +/- 1.00 y) were randomly assigned to three groups: LL-CT (n = 11), ML-CT (n = 11), or CON (n = 10). Participants in the training groups performed two sessions per week for 8 weeks. Both protocols consisted of four rounds of five exercises in a circuit format with a 30 s work:30 s rest duty cycle and 2-min inter-set rest. Exercise intensity was prescribed as 30% 1RM (LL-CT) or 70% 1RM (ML-CT), where 1RM was determined for four lifts: power clean, back squat, bench press, and deadlift. Loads during each exercise were expressed as a percentage of that exercise's own 1RM. Pre-and post-intervention measures included one-repetition maximum in the back squat and bench press (kg); countermovement jump and squat jump height (cm); 30-m sprint time (s); 505 change-of-direction time (s); peak power (W) and relative peak power (W center dot kg-1); and maximal oxygen uptake VO(2)max (mL center dot kg(-1)center dot min(-1)). Blood samples were collected to analyze resting hormone levels and hematological profiles. Both the LL-CT and ML-CT groups showed significant improvements in 1RM, CMJ, SJ, 30-m sprint, 505 agility, PP, and VO(2)max (p < 0.05), whereas the CON group only improved in squat 1RM (p < 0.05). No significant differences were observed in RPP across all three groups (p > 0.05). Between-group comparisons revealed that only 1RM showed significant superiority in the training groups compared to CON (p < 0.05), with no significant differences observed in other performance outcomes (p > 0.05). Both LL-CT and ML-CT resulted in significant increases in total testosterone (T) and mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentration (MCHC) (p < 0.05), while only ML-CT showed a significant improvement in hemoglobin (HB). No significant changes were observed in red blood cell (RBC) count, white blood cell (WBC) count, red cell distribution width (RDW), or hematocrit (HCT) across groups. Under comparable hormonal responses and hematological adaptations, LL-CT demonstrated greater mechanical efficiency while achieving physical performance improvements equivalent to those of moderate-load training.		[Peng, Wuwen; Qu, Wenhao; Sun, Jian; Li, Duanying] Guang Zhou Sport Univ, Sch Athlet Training, Guangzhou, Peoples R China; [Lu, Di] Guangzhou Sport Univ, Sch Phys Educ, Guangzhou, Guangdong, Peoples R China; [Sun, Jian; Li, Duanying] Guangzhou Sport Univ, Guangdong Prov Key Lab Human Sports Performance Sc, Guangzhou, Guangdong, Peoples R China; [Li, Duanying] Guangzhou Sport Univ, Key Lab Human Comp Intelligent Interact Athlet Per, Guangzhou, Guangdong, Peoples R China; [Peng, Wuwen] Guang Zhou Sport Univ, Sch Athlet Training, Guangzhou, Peoples R China								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001654175900001	71	Article; Article		
J	Chen, Yuanhao; Zhang, Xin; Han, Bing; Mo, Ting; Gou, Qiao; Ma, Mengju; Zhang, Qi; Guo, Chao; Hou, Shilun								Acute Effects of Floss Band at Different Pressures on Multidimensional Ankle Stability in Patients with Chronic Ankle Instability: A Randomized Controlled Trial								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				25	1			1	15		10.52082/jssm.2026.1			MAR 2026	2026	This randomized controlled trial investigated the acute effects of floss band (FB) application at different pressures on multidimensional ankle stability in patients with chronic ankle instability (CAI). Forty-two male participants with CAI were randomly assigned to a medium-pressure (MP, 150 mmHg), high-pressure (HP, 200 mmHg), or control group (CG, non-compressive bandage). Outcomes included the Y-Balance Test (YBT), single-leg landing stability (assessed via surface electromyography), ankle proprioception, and static balance, measured at baseline (T0), 5 min (T1), 25 min (T2), and 45 min (T3) post-intervention. The results showed that both MP and HP groups exhibited significant improvements in YBT composite scores, lower limb muscle activation during landing, and joint position sense accuracy at T1 and T2 compared to T0 (all p < 0.05), with the MP group demonstrating longer-lasting benefits up to T3. The MP group also significantly outperformed the CG across multiple dynamic stability and neuromuscular metrics at early time points (p < 0.05). Improvements in static balance were limited and transient. These findings indicate that a single application of FB, particularly at 150 mmHg, can acutely enhance dynamic stability, neuromuscular control, and proprioception in CAI patients, with effects sustained for up to 45 minutes, supporting its use as an effective pre-activity or pre-rehabilitation intervention.		[Chen, Yuanhao; Zhang, Xin; Han, Bing; Mo, Ting; Gou, Qiao; Ma, Mengju; Zhang, Qi; Guo, Chao; Hou, Shilun] Beijing Sport Univ, Sch Sports Med & Rehabil, Beijing 100084, Peoples R China; [Hou, Shilun] Beijing Sport Univ, Sch Sports Med & Rehabil, Beijing 100084, Peoples R China								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:001628866300001	63	Article; Article		
J	Carey, L. M.; Boulter, M. W.; Stone, J. A.; Strafford, B. W.; Rosie, S.; Hunter, A. M.; Donaldson, D., I								Exploring agreement between golfers and coach in evaluating a putt								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261426912				2026	This study aimed to examine the previously unexplored area of agreement between golfers and a coach when assessing putts across two testing sessions. Eleven right-handed golfers (n = 6 males, 5 females, with the average putts per round 32.9 SD = 5.0) completed a 12-putt task, and a SAM PuttLab baseline at each session. The 12 putts varied by distance; short: 6-9 ft (1.83- 2.74 m), medium: 12-15 ft (3.66-4.57 m), long: 18-20 ft (5.49-6.10 m), and slope (limited <1%, moderate >1% < 2%, severe >2%). Following each of the 12 putts, the golfers and coach independently rated five variables: green reading, setup, pace, aim, and execution, using binary yes/no ratings. The coach had access to feedback via TrackMan. Cohen's Kappa was used to assess agreement for each variable. Hierarchical multiple regression analyses examined predictors of putting performance, including hours of practice, SAM PuttLab consistency scores, and average putts per round. Results demonstrated low overall agreement across the two testing sessions. Regression analyses indicated that average putts per round was a significant predictor of performance at both testing sessions. Baseline kinematic consistency predicted performance at the first session, while practice hours did not predict performance at either session. These initial findings highlight the complexity of the perceptual-cognitive-motor skill of putting. Future research should continue to investigate how golfers and coaches develop shared affordances, using mixed method approaches, incorporating measures of expertise to gain greater understanding of how expert putting performance emerges and is maintained under variable environmental and individual conditions.		[Carey, L. M.; Boulter, M. W.] Univ West Scotland, Sch Hlth & Life Sci, Glasgow G72 0LH, Scotland; [Stone, J. A.; Strafford, B. W.] Sheffield Hallam Univ, Sch Sport & Phys Act, Sheffield, England; [Rosie, S.] Glenbervie Golf Club, Larbert, Scotland; [Hunter, A. M.] Nottingham Trent Univ, Dept Sport Sci, Nottingham, England; [Hunter, A. M.] Univ Stirling, Fac Hlth Sci & Sport, Stirling, Scotland; [Hunter, A. M.] Univ Aberdeen, Sport Exercise & Hlth Sci, Aberdeen, Scotland; [Donaldson, D., I] Univ St Andrews, Sch Psychol & Neurosci, St Andrews, Scotland; [Carey, L. M.] Univ West Scotland, Sch Hlth & Life Sci, Glasgow G72 0LH, Scotland								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001703401900001	45	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Sag, Samet; Polat, Ercan								Coaches from the perspective of athletes: The impact of coaches' communication skills on the general self-efficacy and happiness levels of team and individual athletes								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261426716				2026	This study examines, from athletes' perspectives, the effects of coaches' communication skills on athletes' general self-efficacy and happiness. The sample consisted of 340 actively participating athletes, of whom 204 were team-sport athletes and 136 were individual-sport athletes. Data were collected using the Coach Communication Skills Scale, the General Self-Efficacy Scale, and the Oxford Happiness Questionnaire-Short Form. Four hypotheses (H1-H4) were tested using structural equation modeling. In addition, additional hypotheses (H5-H8) were explored through a comparative multi-group framework to examine potential sport-type (team vs. individual) differences in structural paths. Among team-sport athletes, all four main hypotheses were supported: coaches' communication skills had significant positive effects on both general self-efficacy and happiness, and general self-efficacy positively influenced happiness and mediated the relationship between communication skills and happiness. These findings highlight the complex and multidimensional impact of coach-athlete communication in team sports. For individual-sport athletes, only two hypotheses were supported: coach' communication skills positively affected both general self-efficacy and happiness. However, general self-efficacy did not directly affect happiness among individual athletes and did not mediate the relationship between communication skills and happiness. Regarding the additional hypotheses (H5-H8), the overall pattern of findings suggests potential sport-type differences; notably, the GSE-based mechanism (GSE -> Happiness and CCS -> GSE -> Happiness) appears more evident among team-sport athletes in this sample. Overall, the results indicate that coaches' communication skills significantly enhance athletes' general self-efficacy in both sport types; however, the contribution of general self-efficacy to happiness emerges only in team sports. These differences underscore the critical role of coach communication and coach education in sport psychology.		[Sag, Samet] Yozgat Bozok Univ, Fac Sports Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sports, Yozgat, Turkiye; [Polat, Ercan] Yozgat Bozok Univ, Fac Sports Sci, Dept Sports Management, Yozgat, Turkiye; [Sag, Samet] Yozgat Bozok Univ, Fac Sports Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sports, Yozgat, Turkiye								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001700532900001	78	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Kullik, Lisa; Birnkraut, Tim; Pillokat, Lara; Kellmann, Michael; Jakowski, Sarah								The influence of the menstrual cycle on sleep and recovery-stress states in female swim athletes during a 10-day training camp								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261425117				2026	Recovery is essential for athletes to adapt, maintain performance, and prevent overtraining. Hormonal fluctuations during the menstrual cycle can influence recovery, sleep, and performance, particularly during the luteal phase, characterized by elevated progesterone levels. However, current evidence remains inconsistent. This study examined the influence of menstrual cycle phase and menstrual symptoms on sleep and recovery-stress states in nine eumenorrheic female swimmers during a 10-day training camp. Athletes were monitored with actigraphy and assessed twice daily using the Short Recovery and Stress Scale (SRSS). Menstrual cycle phases were determined via the backward-counting method, and symptom frequency was assessed using the Menstrual Symptom index (MSi). Moreover, a pre- and post-camp 4 & times; 50 m broken swim protocol was conducted to assess performance improvements achieved during the training camp. The mid-luteal phase was associated with lower recovery and higher stress states. No significant differences were found in subjective or objective sleep parameters across phases. Additionally, all athletes exhibited performance improvements from pre- to post-test. Although sleep parameters were unaffected, the findings suggest that menstrual cycle phases may influence recovery and adaptation. Incorporating menstrual health into recovery strategies could support more individualized training planning.		[Kullik, Lisa; Birnkraut, Tim; Pillokat, Lara; Kellmann, Michael; Jakowski, Sarah] Ruhr Univ Bochum, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Sport Psychol, Bochum, Germany; [Kellmann, Michael] Univ Queensland, Sch Human Movement & Nutr Sci, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [Kullik, Lisa] Ruhr Univ Bochum, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Sport Psychol, Bochum, Germany								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001700486100001	63	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Witkowska, Julia; Mankowski, Dobroslaw								Coach on the edge: Precariousness and uncertainty in sport system in Poland								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	4			2088	2099		10.1177/17479541261420682			AUG 2026	2026	Drawing on a nationwide survey of 600 Polish sports clubs, this article interrogates coaches' labor conditions through the prism of precarization in a club-centered sport system with weakly regulated credentialing. We analyze contract typologies, remuneration, gender and age composition, and governance dynamics. Findings indicate a predominantly male workforce (28% women) and broadly balanced age structure, alongside pervasive insecurity: only 7.9% hold standard employment, while the majority work under civil-law "mandate" contracts (59.9%) or perform unpaid roles (26.1%). Earnings are markedly low, with 68.4% reporting monthly gross pay below & euro;465. Coaches' strategic participation in governance is uneven, as decision-making is typically concentrated within club boards. Empirical evidence substantiates H1 (precarious employment) and H2 (male dominance), while offering partial support for H3 (limited decision authority). Respondents additionally report recruitment and retention challenges and a shortage of successors, threatening organizational continuity. The study advocates systemic reforms-predictable financing, clarified qualification pathways, more inclusive governance, and robust human-resource supports-to reposition coaching as educational leadership rather than contingent labor.		[Witkowska, Julia; Mankowski, Dobroslaw] Univ Gdansk, Inst Sociol, Ul Jana Bazynskiego 4, PL-80309 Gdansk, Poland; [Witkowska, Julia] Univ Gdansk, Inst Sociol, Ul Jana Bazynskiego 4, PL-80309 Gdansk, Poland								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001700490100001	53	Article; Article		
J	Lee, Minkyo; Su, Yiran								The double-edged sword brand image effects of esports vs. sports sponsorships: the moderating influence of fit and brand awareness								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP											10.1108/IJSMS-08-2025-0407				2026	PurposeThis study examines reputational risks in esports (e.g. violent content) and the comparative effectiveness of esports versus traditional sports sponsorships. Specifically, it investigates how event type (esports vs. sport) influences the transfer of positive and negative event images to sponsoring brands, with event-sponsor fit and brand awareness serving as moderating factors. The findings aim to offer insights for optimizing sponsorship strategies and managing brand image across different sport event contexts.Design/methodology/approachBuilding on Gwinner and Eaton's adjective-based transfer measure approach, the current study conducted a series of pre-tests to develop measures of positive and negative image transfer adjectives through the lens of motivational system theory. A between-subject experimental design was employed, incorporating three independent variables: event type (esports vs. traditional sport), event-sponsor fit (high vs. low) and brand awareness (well-known vs. lesser-known). A total of 321 participants were recruited through an online research platform.FindingsThe findings suggest that event-sponsor fit significantly influences image transfer in traditional sport but is less pronounced in esports. Our results reveal that image transfer in esports sponsorship differs markedly from traditional sport, indicating that brands cannot simply apply traditional sport sponsorship strategies to the esports context but must develop tailored approaches to succeed in this dynamic environment.Originality/valueThis research applies motivational systems theory to sponsorship image transfer by examining both positive and negative effects, highlighting the role of negativity bias - a factor often overlooked in prior studies. It distinguishes the unique sponsorship dynamics of esports from traditional sport, showing that conventional event-sponsor fit models are less applicable in esports contexts.		[Lee, Minkyo] Univ Nevada, Intercoll & Profess Sport Management Program, Las Vegas, NV 89557 USA; [Su, Yiran] Univ Massachusetts, Dept Sport Management, Amherst, MA USA; [Lee, Minkyo] Univ Nevada, Intercoll & Profess Sport Management Program, Las Vegas, NV 89557 USA								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001696848200001	44	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Kilwein, Tess M.; Curry, Kaelene A.; Sutcliffe, Julie; Manzler, Charles A.								Beyond Averages: Uncovering Within-Person Links Between Sleep and Performance in Division I Collegiate Football Players								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT											10.1080/02701367.2025.2608371				2026	A robust body of research links greater sleep duration and quality to improved athletic performance and competitive outcomes. However, many athletes, particularly collegiate football players, struggle to achieve optimal sleep and accurately assess its quality. Despite the known sleep-performance relationship, little is known about how these variables manifest in real time among student-athletes. This study examined daily associations between objectively measured sleep and athletic performance in National Collegiate Athletic Association Division I football players. Sixty-five athletes aged 17 to 23 years (M = 19.88, SD = 1.41), representing a range of academic years and position groups, wore sensor-based devices over a three-week period to capture sleep metrics (sleep efficiency, latency, and total sleep time) and performance indicators (maximum acceleration, maximum velocity, and explosive movement). Multilevel modeling revealed no significant between-person effects, suggesting that athletes who slept better on average did not necessarily perform better on average. However, within-person analyses indicated that nights with longer sleep latency (estimate, -.007; 95% BCI, -.013, -.003) or lower sleep efficiency (estimate, .005; 95% BCI, .001, .010) predicted reduced maximum acceleration the next day. Conversely, days with lower maximum acceleration predicted shorter sleep latency (estimate, 6.869; 95% BCI, 3.998, 9.269) and higher sleep efficiency (estimate, -5.289; 95% BCI, -10.170, -1.027) that night. These findings underscore a dynamic, bidirectional relationship between sleep and performance at the daily level and highlight the need for individualized, athlete-centered sleep interventions that extend beyond sleep duration to include routine assessment, comprehensive education, and strategies to mitigate sleep disruptors.		[Kilwein, Tess M.; Sutcliffe, Julie] Vanderbilt Univ Athlet, Nashville, TN USA; [Curry, Kaelene A.] Mile High Performance Consulting, Albuquerque, NM USA; [Manzler, Charles A.] Univ S Florida, Tampa, FL USA; [Kilwein, Tess M.] Vanderbilt Univ Athlet, 2601 Jess Neely Dr, Nashville, TN 37212 USA								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001707770400001	52	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Pizarro Milian, Roger; Wijesingha, Rochelle								Racialized opportunities? Rookie playing time allocation in the NBA								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541251405478				2026	There is ongoing debate about the existence of racial discrimination in the National Basketball Association (NBA). This study uses the largest and richest dataset of its kind to re-examine racial disparities in playing time among nearly 1800 rookies drafted into the league over the course of four decades. In line with recent studies, our statistical analyses fail to unearth evidence of anti-Black discrimination on the part of NBA coaches making playing time determinations. We identify structural traits of the NBA as a labour market that are likely contributing to this meritocratic distribution of playing time and suggest fruitful areas for future research on this topic.		[Pizarro Milian, Roger] Univ Toronto, Dept Leadership Higher & Adult Educ, 252 Bloor St W, Toronto, ON M5S 1A1, Canada; [Wijesingha, Rochelle] McMaster Univ, Dept Sociol, Hamilton, ON, Canada; [Pizarro Milian, Roger] Univ Toronto, Dept Leadership Higher & Adult Educ, 252 Bloor St W, Toronto, ON M5S 1A1, Canada								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001697828000001	32	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Zhu, Jiazhong; Sun, Dong; Cai, Jiachao; Li, Wenlong; Hu, Chen; Lu, Zilong; Song, Yang; Cen, Xuanzhen; Jemni, Monem; Gu, Yaodong								Comparative analysis of knee and ankle joint biomechanics during single-leg landing in bilateral lay-ups: Influence of hand dominance in basketball players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261422430				2026	This study examined how hand dominance influences lower-limb biomechanics during single-leg landing in bilateral lay-ups. Because the lay-up is a high-frequency basketball skill that imposes substantial impact loading and requires rapid neuromuscular control, side-dependent landing strategies may contribute to asymmetrical joint loading and elevate injury risk, particularly at the knee and ankle. However, empirical evidence clarifying how hand dominance interacts with lay-up side to shape landing biomechanics remains limited. Thirty male collegiate basketball players (15 left-hand dominant, 15 right-hand dominant) performed standardized right-hand lay-ups with left-leg landing and left-hand lay-ups with right-leg landing on force plates under 3D motion capture. Vertical ground reaction force (VGRF) and sagittal-plane knee and ankle kinematics and kinetics were analyzed using 2 & times; 2 mixed ANOVA and SnPM1D over the normalized stance phase. Left-hand-dominant players exhibited higher VGRF first peaks (p = 0.001), second peaks (p = 0.012) and total impulse (p < 0.001), with pronounced side-to-side asymmetry, whereas right-hand-dominant players showed more symmetrical loading between lay-up directions. At the joint level, significant Handedness and Side interactions were found for sagittal ROM, peak flexion, joint moments and power. Left-hand-dominant athletes relied on greater knee flexion, higher knee extensor moments and larger ankle and knee power on their preferred support leg. SnPM1D revealed time-dependent differences clustered in early-mid stance (impact attenuation) and late stance (push-off).These findings indicate that hand dominance systematically reorganizes proximal-distal coordination and load distribution during lay-up landings, and that monitoring asymmetry, particularly in left-hand-dominant athletes, may be important for targeted training and injury prevention.		[Zhu, Jiazhong; Sun, Dong; Cai, Jiachao; Li, Wenlong; Hu, Chen; Lu, Zilong; Song, Yang; Cen, Xuanzhen; Jemni, Monem; Gu, Yaodong] Ningbo Univ, Fac Sports Sci, Ningbo, Peoples R China; [Sun, Dong; Gu, Yaodong] Ningbo Univ, Res Acad Grand Hlth, Ningbo, Peoples R China; [Cai, Jiachao] Obuda Univ, Doctoral Sch Safety & Secur Sci, Budapest, Hungary; [Song, Yang] Hong Kong Polytech Univ, Fac Engn, Dept Biomed Engn, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [Jemni, Monem] Univ Cambridge, Ctr Mental Hlth Res Assoc, Cambridge, England; [Jemni, Monem] Carrick Inst, Cape Canaveral, FL USA; [Gu, Yaodong] Hungarian Univ Sports Sci, Res Inst Sport Sci, Budapest, Hungary; [Sun, Dong; Gu, Yaodong] Ningbo Univ, Fac Sports Sci, Ningbo, Peoples R China; [Sun, Dong; Gu, Yaodong] Ningbo Univ, Res Acad Grand Hlth, Ningbo, Peoples R China; [Gu, Yaodong] Hungarian Univ Sports Sci, Res Inst Sport Sci, Budapest, Hungary								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001698341400001	38	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Ceylan, Bayram; Baydil, Bilgehan; Ozturk, Furkan; Taskin, Hasan Basri; Sarikaya, Ugur; Karaman, Salih; Eyuboglu, Ender; Balci, Sukru Serdar								The impact of brief one-time education and coach encouragement on hydration status in youth judo athletes								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	4			2161	2167		10.1177/17479541261424473			AUG 2026	2026	This study aimed to compare the effectiveness of coach encouragement and hydration education in maintaining hydration status in youth judo athletes, addressing the lack of comparative evidence on hydration strategies. Forty-seven athletes (16 males, 31 females) participated in a four-day training camp. Hydration status was assessed before and after training under three conditions: no intervention (control), coach-guided fluid intake encouragement, and a brief one-time pre-training hydration education. Athletes were unaware of the intervention applied each day, and the educational session was presented without highlighting its experimental nature. Hydration status was objectively measured using urine specific gravity (USG) and urine color (UC). At baseline, 85.1% of athletes were hypohydrated based on USG. Both coach encouragement (p = 0.18) and hydration education (p = 0.22) were associated with the maintenance of hydration status, while the control condition showed a significant deterioration post-training (p = 0.02). Although no significant pre-post differences were observed in UC, both interventions limited the decline seen in the control group. Structured hydration strategies beyond thirst perception are needed for young athletes. These findings suggest that real-time fluid encouragement and brief educational interventions may help support healthier fluid balance during training.		[Ceylan, Bayram; Baydil, Bilgehan; Taskin, Hasan Basri] Kastamonu Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Coaching Educ, Kastamonu, Turkiye; [Ozturk, Furkan] Duzce Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Coaching Educ, Duzce, Turkiye; [Sarikaya, Ugur] Harran Univ, Mehmet Arabaci Sch Phys Educ & Sport, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Sanliurfa, Turkiye; [Karaman, Salih] Hatay Mustafa Kemal Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Coaching Educ, Hatay, Turkiye; [Eyuboglu, Ender] Bartin Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Coaching Educ, Bartin, Turkiye; [Balci, Sukru Serdar] Selcuk Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Coaching Educ, Konya, Turkiye; [Ceylan, Bayram] Kastamonu Univ, Fac Sport Sci, TR-37150 Kastamonu, Turkiye								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001697818500001	28	Article; Article		
J	Milton, Natasha; Gorman, Barry T.; Cosgrave, Ciaran; Fuller, Colm; Kung, Stacey M.								Do schoolboy rugby players who sustain a sports-related concussion have weak preseason neck strength?								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				78						101903	10.1016/j.ptsp.2026.101903			MAR 2026	2026	Objective: To determine if there are differences in neck strength in schoolboy rugby players diagnosed with a sports-related concussion (SRC) compared to those who did not. Design: Observational study. Participants: 134 schoolboy rugby players. Main outcome measures: Maximal isometric neck strength testing, including peak forces for neck flexion, extension, left and right lateral flexion. A composite force value of all four directions and a flexion:extension ratio were calculated. Results: Sixteen participants reported 18 concussions. There were no significant differences between the players who sustained a concussion (n = 16) and those who did not (n = 118) in the flexion (P = 0.349), extension (P = 0.124), left (P = 0.300) or right (P = 0.122) lateral flexion, or composite (P = 0.234) forces at preseason. The players who sustained an SRC had a higher preseason neck flexion:extension strength ratio (P = 0.028). Conclusion: As neck strength was similar between schoolboy rugby players who did and did not sustain an SRC, risk factors of SRC are likely to be multifactorial. Evidence is growing that suggests that the relationship between neck flexor and extensor strength could be an influencing factor on SRC risk in schoolboy rugby players, but this relationship requires further investigation.		[Milton, Natasha; Gorman, Barry T.; Cosgrave, Ciaran; Fuller, Colm; Kung, Stacey M.] UPMC Sports Surg Clin, Sports Med Dept, Gullivers Retail Pk,Northwood Ave, Dublin D09 PKN3, Ireland; [Milton, Natasha] Univ Aberdeen, Sch Med Med Sci & Nutr, Aberdeen, Scotland; [Fuller, Colm] Brentford FC, London, England; [Kung, Stacey M.] Auckland Univ Technol, Sport Res Inst New Zealand, Auckland, New Zealand; [Kung, Stacey M.] UPMC Sports Surg Clin, Sports Med Dept, Gullivers Retail Pk,Northwood Ave, Dublin D09 PKN3, Ireland; [Kung, Stacey M.] Auckland Univ Technol, Sport Res Inst New Zealand, Auckland, New Zealand								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001702478200001	42	Article; Article		
J	Lunt, Julia; Dwivedi, Raj; Grewal, Lovy; Baird, Matthew B.; Pacious, Joshua; Cassas, Kyle J.; Nelson, Vicki R.								The impact of physician factors on treatment recommendations in sports medicine								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				54	4			275	280		10.1080/00913847.2026.2634608			JUL 4 2026	2026	PurposeThe aim of this study is to evaluate differences in treatment of musculoskeletal injuries based on primary care sports medicine physician characteristics.MethodsRetrospective review of treatment provided at a walk-in orthopedic clinic was extracted by chart review. Treatment patterns were compared by chi-square test including primary specialty (Emergency Medicine (EM), Family Medicine (FM), Orthopedics (OR) and Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation (PMR), and Internal Medicine (IM) and Pediatrics (Peds)), gender, and years of experience. Additionally, associations between physician characteristics and treatment recommendations were evaluated using multivariate logistic regression. Treatment options evaluated were advanced imaging, medications (including pain medication, oral steroids, muscle relaxers, etc.), steroid injections, physical therapies, durable medical equipment (DME), activity restrictions, and surgery or follow-up.ResultsA total of 461 patient encounters were included. The frequency of medication recommendations among providers varied significantly with physician gender, primary specialty, and experience. Medication utilization was highest among male physicians and OR/PMR physicians. Physicians with more than 10 years of experience prescribed less medication compared to physicians with 0-5 years of experience. Physicians with greater than 10 years of experience recommended physical therapy more often than physicians with less experience.ConclusionsData suggests there are differences in documented treatment recommendations based on the residency completed prior to sports medicine fellowship, physician gender, and experience. Increased diversity within Sports Medicine fellowship classes, such as including both males and females as well as FM trained physicians and EM trained physicians, can bring additional perspectives and experience to patient care.		[Lunt, Julia; Dwivedi, Raj] USC SOMG, Greenville, SC USA; [Grewal, Lovy; Baird, Matthew B.; Pacious, Joshua; Cassas, Kyle J.; Nelson, Vicki R.] Prisma Hlth Upstate, Greenville, SC USA; [Nelson, Vicki R.] Prisma Hlth Upstate, 701 Grove Rd, Greenville, SC 29605 USA								0							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001698031300001	9	Article; Article		
J	Takeda, Tsuyoshi; Koga, Daiki; Tsunokawa, Takaaki; Sengoku, Yasuo; Takagi, Hideki								Net force analysis during streamlined glide, dolphin kick, and front crawl at high velocities in competitive swimming : implications for optimal propulsion timing								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2026.2627415				2026	This study aimed to identify the optimal transition velocities between streamlined glide (SL), underwater dolphin kick (DK), and front crawl (FC) during high-speed swimming. Ten elite female swimmers performed front crawl and dolphin kick trials in a long-course pool, and repeated the same motions under tethered conditions in a water flume to measure net force. Power-law fitting was applied to model net force as a function of flow velocity across the three movement conditions. The results revealed distinct patterns in the scaling coefficients $\left(A \right)$A and exponents $\left(n \right)$n, following the order: ${A_{SL}} \gt {A_{DK}} \gt {A_{FC}}$ASL>ADK>AFC and ${n_{SL}} \lt {n_{DK}} \lt {n_{FC}}$nSL		[Takeda, Tsuyoshi] Juntendo Univ, Fac Hlth & Sports Sci, Chiba Inzai, Japan; [Koga, Daiki] Univ Tsukuba, Grad Sch Comprehens Human Sci, Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan; [Tsunokawa, Takaaki; Sengoku, Yasuo; Takagi, Hideki] Univ Tsukuba, Inst Hlth & Sport Sci, Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan; [Takeda, Tsuyoshi] Juntendo Univ, Fac Hlth & Sports Sci, Chiba Inzai, Japan								1							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001698457200001	23	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Hogue, Candace M.								How the coach-created motivational climate and athlete goal orientations impact NCAA athlete motivational responses and self-worth								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	4			2039	2048		10.1177/17479541261422226			AUG 2026	2026	Nicholls's achievement goal perspective theory (AGPT) is a leading theory of motivation utilized by sport psychology practitioners to guide coaching education workshops and mental skills training with athletes. Nicholls predicted that a focus on each athlete's skill development, treating mistakes as part of learning, and fostering a cooperative, caring, and supportive environment (i.e., creating a caring, task-involving climate) will help fuel motivation and yield favorable self-perceptions. Likewise, according to AGPT utilizing each athlete's personal improvement and skill development as markers of success can build self-confidence and facilitate performance. While a body of literature in youth sport supports these predictions, comparatively less research has been conducted with collegiate athletes. As such, the purpose of the current investigation was to examine whether the coaching climate on NCAA teams and athletes' task or ego goal orientations (i.e., personal definition of success) predict their effort, enjoyment, and performance and social self-esteem while playing. A total of 103 athletes (Mage = 20.25; SD = 1.56; n = 37 men) from 18 different teams completed the survey. Both the coach created motivational climate and athlete goal orientation predicted athletes' responses and all findings aligned with AGPT predictions. The practical significance of the findings includes emphasizing the importance of coaches creating a caring, task-involving climate for their athletes and encouraging athletes to adopt achievement goals that are based on their individual skill levels and capabilities (i.e., a task goal orientation), while recognizing the valuable contributions of each individual athlete on a team.		[Hogue, Candace M.] Univ Minnesota Twin Cities, Sch Kinesiol, Cooke Hall,Room 223A,1900 Univ Ave SE, Minneapolis, MN 55455 USA; [Hogue, Candace M.] Univ Minnesota Twin Cities, Sch Kinesiol, Cooke Hall,Room 223A,1900 Univ Ave SE, Minneapolis, MN 55455 USA								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001695831300001	36	Article; Article		
J	Kraft, Justin A.; Molina, Sergio; Russell, William D.; Holtz, Maureen; Green, James Matthew								The Relationship Between Barbell Velocity and the Final Five Repetitions in Reserve Across Multiple Sets of the Hang Clean								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT											10.1080/02701367.2025.2601155				2026	Barbell velocity decreases as proximity to exercise endpoint approaches. This study aimed to determine if mean velocity at a given number of repetitions in reserve (RIR) was stable across differing intensity levels and multiple sets during hang clean exercise. Nineteen Division II male athletes (20.1 +/- 1.1 years) completed two trials (3 sets to failure at 70% and 80% 1RM). The final five RIR of each set were analyzed with repeated measures ANOVAs (p <= .05). No differences in mean velocity between any set or intensity were observed for 5 RIR, 3 RIR, or 1 RIR. Pairwise differences were observed during 4 RIR (80% 1RM set 3 (1.13 +/- 0.09 m/s) vs. 70% 1RM set 2 (1.20 +/- 0.12 m/s)) and 2 RIR (80% 1RM set 2 (1.06 +/- 0.15 m/s) vs. 70% RM set 2 (1.15 +/- 0.13 m/s), 80% 1RM set 3 (1.04 +/- 0.12 m/s) vs. 70% 1RM set 1 (1.12 +/- 0.15 m/s) and set 2 (1.15 +/- 0.13 m/s), and 70% 1RM set 2 (1.15 +/- 0.13 m/s) vs. 70% 1RM set 3 (1.09 +/- 0.14 m/s)). Effect sizes for significant pairwise differences ranged from 0.44-0.79. While several pairwise differences existed, lack of systematic trends indicated mean velocity at a given RIR was not generally influenced by set number or intensity. Thus, velocity for a given RIR appears stable across multiple sets and intensities in the hang clean. These velocities can be utilized to identify remaining RIR and adjust training.		[Kraft, Justin A.; Russell, William D.; Holtz, Maureen] Missouri Western State Univ, St Louis, MO USA; [Molina, Sergio] Univ Ozarks, Ozarks, MO USA; [Green, James Matthew] Univ North Alabama, Florence, AL 35632 USA; [Kraft, Justin A.] Missouri Western State Univ, 4525 Downs Dr,214 Looney Complex, St Joseph, MO 64507 USA								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001694725100001	41	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Yeh, Tzu-Yun; Lin, Yi-Hsiu; Chen, Wen-Cheng; Yu, Yung-Chang; Chen, Chen-Yueh								How consumers form attitude toward brand collaboration: the case of LEGO ⨯ Formula 1								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP											10.1108/IJSMS-10-2025-0517				2026	PurposeThis study investigates how differences in brand image and product type influence consumers' perceived novelty and hedonic perception. Furthermore, it examines whether these perceptions ultimately influence consumers' brand attitudes toward the partnering brands. Using the cross-industry collaboration between LEGO and Formula 1 (F1) as the research context, the study explores the psychological mechanism of distinct fan groups.Design/methodology/approachOnline survey is utilized for data collection from F1 fans (N = 241) and LEGO fans (N = 500). Multi-group structural equation modeling (multi-group SEM) is conducted to test the proposed hypotheses.FindingsThis study reveals distinct psychological mechanisms between different fan groups when evaluating brand collaborations. F1 fans are more sensitive to brand image differences while LEGO fans respond more strongly to differences in product type. Although the two groups are triggered by different types of differences, perceived novelty enhances hedonic perception in both groups. Moreover, perceived novelty and hedonic perception positively influence brand attitudes toward collaborative brands, suggesting that both cognitive and affective dimensions play critical roles in evaluating brand partnerships.Originality/valueThis study makes two critical theoretical contributions. First, it extends Schema Congruity Theory by distinguishing between brand image differences and product type differences, showing how each interacts with audience-specific schema structures to form their attitude toward the partnering brands. Second, the study highlights the importance of consumer characteristics in cross-industry brand collaborations, emphasizing that the effectiveness of such partnerships depends on the interplay between brand differences and hedonic/novelty perception.		[Yeh, Tzu-Yun; Chen, Wen-Cheng; Chen, Chen-Yueh] Natl Taiwan Sport Univ, Doctoral Program Transnatl Sport Management & Inno, Taoyuan City, Taiwan; [Lin, Yi-Hsiu] Natl Taiwan Univ, Master Program Sport Facil & Hlth Promot, Taipei, Taiwan; [Yu, Yung-Chang] Fu Jen Catholic Univ, Dept Phys Educ, New Taipei City, Taiwan; [Chen, Chen-Yueh] Natl Taiwan Sport Univ, Doctoral Program Transnatl Sport Management & Inno, Taoyuan City, Taiwan								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001693324800001	74	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Moran, David; Taylor, Jamie; Behan, Stephen; Horgan, Peter; MacNamara, Aine								Intended-enacted-experienced-hidden: Exploring the curriculum of youth Gaelic games								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261422725				2026	The journey through youth sport is often associated with changing motivations and increasing emphasis on competition. Using rapid, semi-structured interviews with 140 participants (players, parents and coaches from under-13, under-15 and under-18), we sought to better understand the youth sport experience in Gaelic games following the journey from modified games to competitive programmes, through the intended-enacted-experienced, and hidden curriculum framework. Two themes were developed following a reflexive thematic analysis, 'it's the perceived seriousness' and 'it means a lot to us'. Findings suggest that the administration of games, the intended curriculum, was a source of frustration. We suggest that games programmes require attention and articulation by governing bodies to provide meaningful games for players. However, the greatest impact on experienced curriculum seemed to be interactions between players and coaches, the enacted curriculum, highlighting the need to support coaches in meeting participant needs. Furthermore, community was at the heart of the experience, perhaps explained by the cultural importance of Gaelic games. This led to acceptance of certain coaching practices, detrimental to the individual, as being necessary for the betterment of the team, an indication of the hidden curriculum.		[Moran, David; Behan, Stephen] Dublin City Univ, Insight SFI Ctr Data Analyt, Dublin, Ireland; [Moran, David; Taylor, Jamie; Behan, Stephen; MacNamara, Aine] Dublin City Univ, Sch Hlth & Human Performance, CoEx Lab, Dublin, Ireland; [Taylor, Jamie; Behan, Stephen; MacNamara, Aine] Dublin City Univ, Sch Hlth & Human Performance, Dublin, Ireland; [Horgan, Peter] Gael Athlet Assoc, Dublin, Ireland; [Moran, David] Dublin City Univ, Insight SFI Ctr Data Analyt, Dublin, Ireland; [Moran, David] Dublin City Univ, Sch Hlth & Human Performance, CoEx Lab, Dublin, Ireland								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001694566100001	70	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Latsinos, Eli J.; Shorter, Kathleen A.								The effects of velocity-based training on free weight back squat technique								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261422069				2026	This study examined the effects of velocity-based training (VBT) on free-weight barbell back squat technique compared with traditional resistance training (TR). Ten experienced participants completed anthropometric assessments, one-repetition maximum (1RM) testing, and VBT familiarisation, followed by randomised squat sessions using both methods. During VBT, participants received real-time velocity feedback and lifted with maximal concentric intent; during TR, participants used their habitual technique without feedback. Statistical significance was set at p <= 0.05. No significant differences were found in peak joint angles or trunk inclination (p > 0.05), although small to moderate effects were observed (Hedges' g). Mean resultant barbell velocity, the vector sum of horizontal and vertical velocity components, was higher during VBT (0.48 +/- 0.05 m & centerdot;s(-1)) than TR (0.43 +/- 0.04 m & centerdot;s(-1); p < 0.001), with a large effect; however, the vertical velocity component was greater during TR (94.7 +/- 2.1%) than VBT (92.3 +/- 3.1%; p = 0.016). The 95% confidence ellipse area of center of pressure (CoP) was larger during VBT (106.7 +/- 26.9 cm(2)) than TR (58.4 +/- 16.1 cm(2); p < 0.001), with a large effect. Coefficients of variation were comparable across all variables. Collectively, these results indicate that VBT did not significantly alter joint or trunk kinematics, and any observed differences were small and unlikely to be practically meaningful. However, whilst resultant velocity was greater during VBT, this was accompanied by larger CoP perturbations, suggesting greater instability. Practitioners should monitor technique and consider athlete experience, training objectives, and injury risk when implementing VBT.		[Latsinos, Eli J.; Shorter, Kathleen A.] Univ New England, Sch Sci & Technol, Exercise & Sports Sci Discipline, Armidale, Australia; [Shorter, Kathleen A.] Swinburne Univ Technol, Sch Hlth Sci, Dept Biomed Hlth & Exercise Sci, 1 Alfred St, Hawthorn, Vic 3122, Australia; [Shorter, Kathleen A.] Swinburne Univ Technol, Sch Hlth Sci, Dept Biomed Hlth & Exercise Sci, 1 Alfred St, Hawthorn, Vic 3122, Australia								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001695236600001	46	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Sungur, Yilmaz; Cetin, Onat; Jones, Paul Anthony								Current knowledge and implementation of post-activation performance enhancement (PAPE) strategies among elite sports practitioners in Europe: A cross-sectional survey study								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261421771				2026	An acute improvement in muscle function after high-intensity exercise is known as post-activation performance enhancement (PAPE). PAPE encompasses extensive mechanisms such as increased neuromuscular activation and elevated muscle temperature. These adaptations have attracted growing interest and are thought to facilitate explosive athletic performance. This cross-sectional survey investigated the knowledge and practices of elite European sports practitioners regarding PAPE. A total of 66 professionals from 8 sport disciplines and 24 countries completed an online questionnaire. The survey included demographic questions and sections tailored to PAPE users and non-users. Responses were analyzed using descriptive statistics and content analysis. Results showed that 82% of participants were familiar with PAPE, but only 57% of those knowledgeable reported applying it in practice. Users typically prescribed 1-4 sets of 3-8 repetitions of resistance, plyometric, Olympic, or isometric exercises, with rest intervals ranging from 2-8 min. Reported challenges included athletes' limited awareness of PAPE, variability in optimal rest periods, and logistical constraints before competition. Among non-users, skepticism about effectiveness, difficulty applying PAPE to groups, and convincing athletes were the most cited barriers. Nonetheless, both groups emphasized the need for further research on long-term adaptations, sex-specific responses, hormonal influences, and team-based applications. In conclusion, PAPE is widely recognized among elite practitioners, yet its implementation remains inconsistent. Bridging the gap between scientific knowledge and practice will require clearer guidelines, targeted education, and applied research to optimize its integration into performance programs.		[Sungur, Yilmaz] Akdeniz Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Coaching Educ, TR-07058 Antalya, Turkiye; [Cetin, Onat] Yalova Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Coaching Educ, Yalova, Turkiye; [Jones, Paul Anthony] Univ Salford, Sch Hlth & Soc, Directorate Psychol & Sport, Salford, England; [Sungur, Yilmaz] Akdeniz Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Coaching Educ, TR-07058 Antalya, Turkiye								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001694569900001	28	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Albert, Avi N.; Horsey, Jai; Baker, Clayton R.; De Oliveira, Nick; Campbell, Daytawn; Fitch, Samuel W.; Williams, Kristen L.; Terry, Douglas P.; Zuckerman, Scott L.								Predictors of two consecutive knockout losses in ultimate fighting championship athletes								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				54	3			244	250		10.1080/00913847.2026.2631369			MAY 4 2026	2026	ObjectivesThe current study sought to: (1) characterize the demographic and fight specific details of Ultimate Fighting Championship (UFC) athletes who experienced two consecutive knockout (KO) or technical knockout (TKO) losses, and (2) identify predictors associated with two consecutive KO or TKO losses using publicly available data.MethodsA retrospective cohort study examined UFC fighters who sustained at least one KO/TKO loss between 01/2015 and 12/2023 (with at least one subsequent fight) using publicly available fight records and third-party sources. Fighters were binarized into: (1) One Knockout group or (2) Two Consecutive Knockouts group. Demographics and fight specific details from the initial KO/TKO loss were compared using t-tests and chi-squared tests. A multivariable logistic regression identified predictors of two consecutive KO/TKO losses using variables including age, sex, prior knockout history, weight, total head strikes absorbed, and knockout type.ResultsAmong 705 UFC athletes who sustained a knockout (age: mean = 31.1; 89.9% male), 77.3% sustained a single KO/TKO loss and 22.7% sustained two consecutive losses. Fighters with two consecutive knockouts were older (31.8 +/- 3.9 vs. 31.0 +/- 4.0; t = -2.288, p = .022) and more likely to be male (94.4% vs. 88.6%; chi 2 = 4.5, p = .034). Additonally, they fought at a heavier weight class (175.9 +/- 41.8 lbs vs. 168.8 +/- 39.4 lbs; t = -1.991, p = .047). In the logistic regression, prior knockout history was the only independent predictor (OR = 1.13, p = .019, 95% CI = 1.020-1.246).ConclusionsAmong UFC athletes during a 9-year period, 23% sustained two knockout losses in a row. Associations with two consecutive knockouts were older age, male sex, heavier weight class, and prior KO history, with prior KO history emerging as the only independent predictor. Recognizing prior knockout exposure as a key risk factor may help coaches and sports medicine physicians identify fighters at greater vulnerability for subsequent knockouts. Identifying high-risk fighters through knockout history may inform return-to-competition and medical clearance decisions.		[Albert, Avi N.; Horsey, Jai; Baker, Clayton R.; De Oliveira, Nick; Campbell, Daytawn; Williams, Kristen L.; Terry, Douglas P.; Zuckerman, Scott L.] Vanderbilt Univ, Vanderbilt Sports Concuss Ctr, Dept Neurol Surg, Med Ctr, 1500 21st Ave South,Suite 4340, Nashville, TN 37212 USA; [Albert, Avi N.; Horsey, Jai; Baker, Clayton R.; De Oliveira, Nick; Campbell, Daytawn; Fitch, Samuel W.; Williams, Kristen L.; Terry, Douglas P.; Zuckerman, Scott L.] Vanderbilt Univ, Med Ctr, Dept Neurol Surg, Nashville, TN USA; [Albert, Avi N.; Horsey, Jai; Campbell, Daytawn] Meharry Med Coll, Sch Med, Nashville, TN USA; [Zuckerman, Scott L.] Vanderbilt Univ, Vanderbilt Sports Concuss Ctr, Dept Neurol Surg, Med Ctr, 1500 21st Ave South,Suite 4340, Nashville, TN 37212 USA								0							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001693206500001	34	Article; Article		
J	DeLang, Matthew D.; Ishoi, Lasse; Thornton, Kasper; Thorborg, Kristian								High previous-week training load amplifies hip adduction squeeze strength reductions in male academy football players with performance-limiting groin pain								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				78						101902	10.1016/j.ptsp.2026.101902			MAR 2026	2026	Objective: To examine whether preceding seven-day football training load and previous seven-day groin pain influence hip adduction squeeze strength in academy football players. Design: Longitudinal observational study with twice weekly repeated measures over seven weeks. Setting: West African academy football club. Participants: Nineteen male academy football players (age 16.5 +/- 0.9 [15-18] years). Main outcome measures: Hip adduction squeeze strength, performance-limiting groin pain, and football training load were captured. Observations with and without groin pain were stratified into two groups, and two linearmixed effects models examined hip adduction squeeze strength based on preceding-week football training load. Results: Hip adduction squeeze strength was significantly influenced by football training load when associated with groin pain (estimate -0.13, 95% CI [-0.20, -0.07], p < 0.001). In observations without groin pain, football training load did not influence hip adduction squeeze strength (estimate -0.01, 95% CI [-0.06, 0.03], p = 0.634. Conclusions: When groin pain is present, hip adduction squeeze strength is adversely influenced by higher football training loads. Players without groin pain do not experience hip adduction squeeze strength reductions from high football training load. Monitoring training load should be a consideration for practitioners working with football players that are experiencing groin pain.		[DeLang, Matthew D.] Right Dream, Human Performance Dept, Old Akrade, Ghana; [DeLang, Matthew D.; Ishoi, Lasse; Thornton, Kasper] Right Dream, Human Performance Dept, Farum, Denmark; [Ishoi, Lasse; Thorborg, Kristian] Hvidovre Univ Hosp, Sports Orthoped Res Ctr Copenhagen SORC C, Dept Orthoped Surg, Copenhagen, Denmark; [DeLang, Matthew D.] FC Nordsjaelland, Part Right Dream Grp, Farum, Denmark								1							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001695460700001	37	Article; Article		
J	Chang, Hyun-Woo; Kim, Na-Young; Kim, So-Jung								Exploring communitarianism in South Korean elite sports: A grounded theory approach								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261417557				2026	This study examines how community-centered training culture shaped by Korean cultural characteristics contributes to athletic performance, psychological stability, and ethical identity formation among elite athletes. Using a grounded theory approach, semi-structured interviews were conducted with 39 Korean elite athletes, and data were analyzed through open, axial, and selective coding procedures. The core category was identified as the transformation of extrinsic motivation into intrinsic motivation and the formation of communal identity through communitarian-based interaction. Findings show that training infrastructure, emotional and psychological stability resources, verbal encouragement practices, and intergenerational transmission structures interact to facilitate motivation internalization and ethical agency. Culturally specific mechanisms such as jeong-mediated we-ness and residential training practices strengthen communal cohesion, supporting both sustained high-intensity training and performance development. This study clarifies the structural mechanisms of community-centered training culture in Korean elite sport and highlights its sociological, psychological, and ethical significance.		[Chang, Hyun-Woo] Korea Natl Sport Univ, Inst Sport Eth, Dept Phys Educ, Seoul, South Korea; [Kim, Na-Young] Kookmin Univ, Inst Sport Eth, Dept Phys Educ, Seoul, South Korea; [Kim, So-Jung] Univ Suwon, Dept Sports Sci, Hwaseong, South Korea; [Kim, So-Jung] Univ Suwon, Dept Sports Sci, Hwaseong, South Korea								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001691911600001	25	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Dowling, Brittany; Slowik, Jonathan S.; Fleisig, Glenn S.								The influence of sample and filter frequencies on baseball pitching data								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2026.2625797				2026	The throwing motion in baseball pitching is the fastest recorded human motion, demanding higher sample frequencies than most human movements. Previous studies have used sample frequencies from 240 to 500 Hz and a wide range of low-pass filter frequencies, although 13.4 and 18.0 Hz are the most common. This study examined the effects of two common sample frequencies (240 and 480 Hz) and three filter frequencies (13.4, 18.0, 27.2 Hz) on pitching data. Fastballs from 28 professional baseball pitchers were collected at 480 Hz with marker motion capture, then down-sampled to 240 Hz; each data set was filtered at the three filter frequencies. Twenty-six common kinematic, temporal and kinetic variables were computed for each pitcher across all sample-filter frequency combinations and compared using two-way repeated measures ANOVA. Differences were interpreted relative to minimal clinically important differences (MCID). Pitching data were more sensitive to filter frequency (significant differences above MCID in 13 of 26 variables) than to sample frequency (4 of 26 variables). Variables involving differentiation (e.g. velocities and torques) were most impacted. Based on these findings and time-series inspection, we recommend a minimum sample frequency of 240 Hz and a Butterworth low-pass filter of 18.0 Hz for marker-based motion capture pitching mechanics.		[Dowling, Brittany] Midwest Orthopaed RUSH, Sports Performance Ctr, Chicago, IL USA; [Dowling, Brittany] Rush Univ, Med Ctr, Orthopaed Surg, Chicago, IL USA; [Slowik, Jonathan S.; Fleisig, Glenn S.] Amer Sports Med Inst, Res, Birmingham, AL 35205 USA; [Fleisig, Glenn S.] Amer Sports Med Inst, Res, Birmingham, AL 35205 USA								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001687292000001	67	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Fang, Ling; Lee, Doheung; Kwon, Sungho								Effects of observational learning and goal-focused self-regulation on sport confidence among Chinese speed skating athletes								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261418574				2026	This study examined the effects of observational learning and goal-focused self-regulation on sport confidence among Chinese speed skating athletes. An online survey was conducted with 236 speed skaters registered with the Chinese Skating Association participating in the study. Descriptive statistical analysis was used to examine the normality of the data, and correlation analysis was conducted to investigate the relationships among the variables. Furthermore, the mediating effect was examined using structural equation modeling (SEM) with MLR estimator using R Studio, and further verified through bootstrapping procedures. The results indicated that observational learning had a significant indirect effect on sport confidence through goal-focused self-regulation. Moreover, the direct effect of observational learning on sport confidence remained significant even after controlling for goal-focused self-regulation, suggesting a partial mediation effect. These findings underscore the importance of observational learning in speed skating and suggest that both observational learning and goal-focused self-regulation are important factors in enhancing athletes' sport confidence.		[Fang, Ling; Lee, Doheung; Kwon, Sungho] Seoul Natl Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Seoul, South Korea; [Lee, Doheung] Seoul Natl Univ, SNU Four Training Program Global Leaders Sports Sc, 1 Gwanak Ro, Seoul, South Korea; [Lee, Doheung] Seoul Natl Univ, SNU Four Training Program Global Leaders Sports Sc, 1 Gwanak Ro, Seoul, South Korea								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001685379000001	85	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	de Mattos Leao, Taina; dos Santos Borek, Rafaela; de Oliveira Basso, Robertto; Zini, Cassio; Simm, Eduardo Bolicenha; Costa, Guilherme; Picoli, Fabio; Szymczak Conde, Juan Henrique; Nisihara, Renato								Characteristics of musculoskeletal injuries in youth football: a prospective study								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				54	3			229	235		10.1080/00913847.2026.2626298			MAY 4 2026	2026	BackgroundMusculoskeletal injuries are common in youth football and can impact athletes' development and performance. Understanding their incidence and characteristics is essential for prevention and management. ObjectiveTo analyze the incidence and characteristics of musculoskeletal injuries in youth categories of a Brazilian football club over one competitive season and assess associations with age group, playing position and training load.DesignProspective cohort study. MethodsWe included 180 male athletes from four youth categories (U-11/13, U-15, U-17, U-20) monitored during the 2022 season. Data were collected from medical records, including injury diagnosis and severity, training load metrics (sRPE, TRIMP, ACWR, GPS).Injuries were defined as any condition causing at least one day of absence. Statistical analyses included correlations and group comparisons. ResultsA total of 181 injuries were recorded; 64.4% of athletes sustained at least one. Muscle injuries were most frequent (59%), followed by joint injuries (19.8%). The U-20 group had the highest incidence (33%), and forwards were most affected (34.2%). Bone injuries caused the longest absences (p < 0.0001). No significant associations were found between training load and injury outcomes. ConclusionInjury patterns varied by age and position. Muscle injuries predominated, highlighting the importance of integrated monitoring of injury characteristics, athlete profile, and physical demands to support injury prevention and early management in youth football.		[de Mattos Leao, Taina; dos Santos Borek, Rafaela; de Oliveira Basso, Robertto; Zini, Cassio; Simm, Eduardo Bolicenha; Nisihara, Renato] Mackenzie Evangel Sch Med Parana, Dept Med, Rua Padre Anchieta 2770, BR-80730000 Curitiba, Brazil; [Zini, Cassio; Costa, Guilherme; Picoli, Fabio; Szymczak Conde, Juan Henrique] Coritiba Football Club, Dept Med, Curitiba, Brazil; [Nisihara, Renato] Mackenzie Evangel Sch Med Parana, Dept Med, Rua Padre Anchieta 2770, BR-80730000 Curitiba, Brazil								0							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001684065100001	27	Article; Article		
J	Martinez, Raquel Emanuele Godoy; Martins, Tamiris Beppler; De Sousa, Caetano Matias; Okubo, Rodrigo								Musculoskeletal complaints in college sports: associated factors and immediate physiotherapy outcomes								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				54	3			222	228		10.1080/00913847.2026.2626264			MAY 4 2026	2026	Objectives: To describe the profile of sports-related musculoskeletal complaints treated by physiotherapy during a multi-sport university competition, identify associated factors (training load, strengthening frequency, and previous complaint history), and evaluate the immediate effect of physiotherapy interventions on pain.<br /> Methods: gThis cross-sectional descriptive epidemiological study analyzed physiotherapy records from a University Games (2022-2025), involving 5100 student-athletes. All athletes who sought physiotherapy for a musculoskeletal complaint during the events were included. A standardized assessment form recorded demographics, sport modality, training characteristics, strengthening frequency, previous complaints in the same region, anatomical location, mechanism, physiotherapy interventions, and pain intensity (Numeric Pain Rating Scale, NPRS) before and after treatment. Incidence rates were calculated as physiotherapy-treated complaints per 1000 athlete exposure hours.<br /> Results: A total of 1803 physiotherapy treatment encounters were registered. Most complaints involved the lower limbs (64.7%) and were classified as traumatic (50.3%) or atraumatic/overuse (25.0%). Five team sports - futsal, 7-a-side soccer, volleyball, handball, and basketball - accounted for 93.6% of sport-specific cases. The overall incidence of physiotherapy-treated complaints was 29.62 per 1000 athlete exposure hours. Baseline pain showed no significant difference between encounters with and without a previous complaint in the same region (p = 0.060), was weakly correlated with weekly sport-training hours (rho = 0.101, p = 0.014), and was not associated with strengthening frequency (rho = 0.038, p = 0.192). In 1020 encounters with pre- and post-treatment data, a mean reduction of -2.69 NPRS points was observed (p < 0.001; Cohen's d = 1.58).<br /> Conclusion: Musculoskeletal complaints during multi-sport university competitions predominantly affect the lower limbs and are mainly traumatic in nature, particularly in high-intensity team sports. Immediate, on-site physiotherapy provides substantial pain relief, underscoring its role in acute athlete care and as a foundation for targeted injury prevention strategies.		[Martinez, Raquel Emanuele Godoy; Martins, Tamiris Beppler; De Sousa, Caetano Matias; Okubo, Rodrigo] Santa Catarina State Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Pascoal Simone 358, BR-88080350 Florianopolis, Brazil; [Martins, Tamiris Beppler; Okubo, Rodrigo] Santa Catarina State Univ, Phys Therapy Grad Program, Florianopolis, Brazil; [Okubo, Rodrigo] Santa Catarina State Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Pascoal Simone 358, BR-88080350 Florianopolis, Brazil								0							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001682577100001	52	Article; Article		
J	Mills, Andrew; Bullough, Steven								The Tartan pipeline: A 24-season longitudinal analysis of elite player development in professional Scottish football								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261416476				2026	Scotland has a proud footballing legacy marked by famous European successes and world-class players, yet recent decades have witnessed a sustained period of underperformance both domestically and internationally. Back-to-back European Championship qualifications, coupled with Scotland's qualification for the 2026 World Cup, suggest a revitalised development pipeline, but it remains unclear whether these outcomes reflect systemic progress or isolated performances. This study provides a 24-season longitudinal analysis (2000-2024) of elite player development in Scotland's top-tier, with the aim of identifying the key success factors that enable Scottish players to break through, survive, and thrive at the elite level. Drawing on a large sample (n = 2671) of players, a stepwise analytical approach was employed that centred on multinomial logistic regression to test predictors of elite player progression. Results showed that debut age, debut-season involvement, and U21 representation were the strongest predictors of becoming an established professional at the elite level. In contrast, debut club type, academy pathway, and U16-20 caps were not significant. Typology modelling distinguished four distinct player progression pathways, from short-lived "early flickers" to enduring "thriving pros." Follow-up analyses confirmed that greater debut-season minutes and earlier debuts were consistently associated with established elite playing careers and progression through the national pathway to senior international representation. These findings suggest that 'early trust' - operationalised as meaningful debut-season involvement - is a core success factor underpinning elite player development at both club and international levels. Practical implications are offered for coaches, clubs, and governing bodies to strengthen academy player pathways and bolster Scotland's national player development pipeline.		[Mills, Andrew] Thaksin Univ, Fac Hlth & Sports Sci, Phatthalung, Thailand; [Bullough, Steven] Sheffield Hallam Univ, Sch Sport & Phys Act, Sport Ind Res Grp, Sheffield, England; [Bullough, Steven] Sheffield Hallam Univ, Sch Sport & Phys Act, Sport Ind Res Grp, Sheffield, England								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001682753200001	31	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	McGoldrick, Cillian D.; Dello Iacono, Antonio; Morgan, Oliver J.; Buchanan, Janice; Maxwell, Mark; Nayler, Jack; Unnithan, Viswanath B.								Neuromuscular performance development in highly trained youth soccer players over time: A longitudinal observational study								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541251407283				2026	Attributes required for soccer performance may be developed through involvement in pitch-based training and its interaction with growth and maturation processes even in the absence of specific strength, speed, and power training. This study was designed to investigate the effects of training stimuli and its interaction with growth and maturation on changes in physical performance over a 7-8-month period. Highly-trained youth soccer players affiliated to a professional soccer club (PSA; age: 13.8 +/- 0.53, stature: 162.8 +/- 8.3 cm, body mass: 52.2 +/- 7.1 kg) exposed to both pitch-based training and strength, speed, and power training, were compared to amateur (ASA; age: 14.3 +/- 0.53, stature: 166.8 +/- 8.9 cm, body mass: 55.4 +/- 7.7 kg) players that undertook pitch-based training alone. Two age groups from each club completed an isometric squat test (ISqT), countermovement jump (CMJ), 10 m, 20 m, and 30 m sprint tests. PSA players improved (p = < 0.001 and 0.023, respectively) CMJ and ISqT relative peak force (rPF) scores by 3.53 cm and 6.75 N/kg respectively, compared to the ASA players. Maturation improved (p < 0.05) performance in all physical tests and metrics apart from ISqT rPF. The results suggest that maturation combined with pitch- and specific training results in greater improvements in muscle force production and CMJ height compared to maturation pitch-based training alone. Although maturation processes likely contributed towards a significant proportion of the improvements in aforementioned characteristics, practitioners should consider programming additional tailored training strategies to optimise these effects.		[McGoldrick, Cillian D.; Dello Iacono, Antonio; Unnithan, Viswanath B.] Univ West Scotland, Sch Hlth & Life Sci, Div Sport Exercise & Hlth, Technol Ave, Glasgow G72 0LH, Scotland; [Morgan, Oliver J.; Maxwell, Mark] Leicester City Football Club, Leicester, England; [Buchanan, Janice] Univ Strathclyde, Glasgow, Scotland; [Nayler, Jack] Everton Football Club, Liverpool, England; [McGoldrick, Cillian D.] Univ West Scotland, Sch Hlth & Life Sci, Div Sport Exercise & Hlth, Technol Ave, Glasgow G72 0LH, Scotland								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001681786100001	63	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Sevin, Irem Pinar; Arede, Jorge; Leite, Nuno; Rehfeld, Kathrin								Enhancing youth male basketball players' performance: A comparative study of the basketball-adjusted FIFA 11+kids warm-up and differential learning approach on basketball key performance indicators agility, jump and sprint								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261416468				2026	This randomized controlled study aimed to examine the effects of a six-week Differential Learning (DL)-based adaptation of the FIFA 11+ Kids warm-up program on selected physical performance outcomes, including agility, sprint speed, and jump performance in youth male basketball players (mean age = 13.2 +/- 0.8 years). A pre-post test design was used, with twenty participants randomly assigned to either a basketball-adjusted FIFA 11+ Kids (BB-adjusted FIFA 11+ Kids) group or a DL-based warm-up group. Bayesian repeated-measures ANOVAs, along with Bayesian independent- and paired-samples t-tests, were conducted to evaluate between- and within-group changes. Between-group analyses showed inconclusive evidence for differences in sprint (BF10 = 0.41), agility without the basketball (BF10 = 0.55), agility with the basketball (BF10 = 0.54), and jump performance (BF10 = 0.40). Bayesian evidence indicated comparable pre-to-post improvements in both groups across all performance measures. These results suggest that a short-term DL-based warm-up results in comparable performance outcomes to the basketball-adjusted version FIFA 11+ Kids program. Future research should investigate whether extending DL-based approaches beyond an acute warm-up context, such as implementing them across training periods longer than six weeks and including retention testing, affects performance outcomes in youth athletes. In addition, examining different levels and types of variability (e.g., geometric versus dynamic noise) may help clarify context-dependent effects of DL-based warm-ups.		[Sevin, Irem Pinar] Otto von Guericke Univ, Inst Sport Sci, Magdeburg, Germany; [Arede, Jorge] Polytech Inst Viseu, Sch Educ, Viseu, Portugal; [Leite, Nuno] Univ Tras os Montes & Alto Douro, Res Ctr Sports Sci, Hlth Sci & Human Dev CIDESD, Vila Real, Portugal; [Rehfeld, Kathrin] Otto von Guericke Univ, Inst Sport Sci, Magdeburg, Germany; [Sevin, Irem Pinar] Otto von Guericke Univ, Inst Sport Sci, Magdeburg, Germany								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001680324600001	36	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	van Hemert, Rob; van der Kamp, John								Team strength and penalty shootouts in soccer: Market value predicts the winner								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261416771				2026	This study investigated the relationship between team strength and winning the penalty shootout in men's soccer. It used publicly available market values to estimate team strength and the outcomes of 409 shootouts from club and national teams involved in national and international competitions. Two measures for team strength were used: the pre-game strength based on the market value of the eleven starting players of the team, and the in-game strength based on the average market value of only those players and goalkeepers who participated in the shootout. Both measures were taken relative to the opposing team. Results from binary logistic regressions indicated a significant effect of team strength on the winner of the shootout. This was found for both team strength measures. This reinforces findings from previous research with alternative operationalizations of team strength. These results show that a shootout is not merely a lottery. Further research is needed to disentangle the degree to which the outcome of the shootout reflects merely the sum of the efforts of individual players or also a genuine collective team effort.		[van Hemert, Rob] Univ Amsterdam, Amsterdam Business Sch, POB 15953, NL-1001 NL Amsterdam, Netherlands; [van der Kamp, John] Vrije Univ Amsterdam, Fac Behav & Movement Sci, Dept Human Movement Sci, Amsterdam Movement Sci, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [van Hemert, Rob] Univ Amsterdam, Amsterdam Business Sch, POB 15953, NL-1001 NL Amsterdam, Netherlands								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001679362900001	42	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Seurot, Antoine; Cools, Ann M.; Fourchet, Francois; Blache, Yoann; Rogowski, Isabelle								Intersession reliability and magnitude of change of isokinetic testing of the glenohumeral rotators in overhead athletes with unilateral shoulder anterior instability								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				78						101892	10.1016/j.ptsp.2026.101892			MAR 2026	2026	Objectives: To investigate the reliability and magnitude of change of isokinetic testing of the glenohumeral rotators in overhead athletes with unilateral anterior shoulder instability. Design: Test-Retest. Setting: Clinical. Participants: Thirty patients (17 males, 27.9 +/- 10.8 years) with unilateral anterior shoulder instability. Main outcomes measures: Maximal and average peak torques (PTa), and total work values were extracted from shoulder internal and external rotation in concentric and eccentric modes at 60 degrees/s, and in concentric mode at 180 degrees/s. Results: PTa at 60 degrees/s presented the highest reliability [Intraclass Coefficient of Correlation (ICC): 0.88 to 0.95] and lowest measurement error [Minimal Detectable Change at 95 % confidence interval (MDC95 %): 23.2-35.4 %], irrespective of the movement direction and contraction modalities. Conventional, functional and modal ratios based on these average values displayed poor-to-good reliability [ICC: 0.16 to 0.88] and high measurement error [MDC95 %: 22.6-43.2 %]. Despite significant differences (p < 0.001 for all), the magnitudes of changes over 6 months were lower than the MDC95 % values. Conclusions: Based on average peak torque values assessed at 60 degrees/s, changes in maximal strength may be higher than 35 % to be considered real changes during rehabilitation process, while muscular imbalance should be interpreted with caution.		[Seurot, Antoine; Blache, Yoann; Rogowski, Isabelle] Univ Lyon 1, Lab Interuniv Biol Motr, UFR STAPS, UR 7424, 27-29 Blvd 11 Novembre 1918, F-69622 Villeurbanne, France; [Seurot, Antoine; Fourchet, Francois] Hop La Tour, Swiss Olymp Med Ctr, Dept Physiotherapie, 3 Ave J-D-Maillard, CH-1217 Meyrin, Switzerland; [Seurot, Antoine; Fourchet, Francois] Hop La Tour, Swiss Olymp Med Ctr, Lab Anal Mouvemen, 3 Ave J-D Maillard, CH-1217 Meyrin, Switzerland; [Cools, Ann M.] Univ Ghent, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Rehabil Sci, Campus UZ Gent,Corneel Heymonsi 10,B3,Entrance 46, B-9000 Ghent, Belgium; [Fourchet, Francois] Univ Savoie Mont Blanc, Lab Interuniv Biol Motr, UR 7424, Batiment Chartreuse,Campus Sci, F-73370 Bourget Duc Lac, France; [Seurot, Antoine] UCB LYON1, UFRSTAPS LIBM, UR7424 27 29, Bd 11 Novembre 1918, F-69622 Villeurbanne, France								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001685872500001	42	Article; Article		
J	Lorente-Gonzalez, Carlos; Beltran-Garrido, Jose Vicente; Batalla-Gavalda, Abraham; Corbi, Francisco								Physiological Effects of the Cool Vest Jacket on Recovery after a Repeated Shuttle Sprint Ability Test								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				101				257	270		10.5114/jhk/218610			FEB 2026	2026	Soccer is an intermittent sport requiring rapid recovery from repeated high-intensity efforts, especially under heat stress conditions. Cooling vests have emerged as a practical strategy to enhance post-exercise heat dissipation, yet their physiological effects remain underexplored. This study aimed to assess the efficacy of a cooling vest following a repeated shuttle sprint ability (RSSA) test under hot conditions, focusing on skin temperature, blood lactate, and heart rate responses. Eleven recreational male soccer players completed two RSSA tests in a randomized crossover design, each followed by 15 min of passive recovery with or without a cooling vest. Skin temperature was measured at five anatomical sites, while blood lactate and the heart rate were recorded at baseline, pre-test, and at 0, 1, 3, 5, 10, and 15 min post-exercise. Compared with the control condition, the cooling vest intervention significantly reduced skin temperature at the 3(rd )and the 5(th) min post-exercise (3 min: d(z) = -1.54, 95% CI [-2.53, -0.55], p < 0.001; 5 min: d(z) = -0.90, 95% CI [-1.71, -0.08], p = 0.016). Transient between-condition differences were also observed for blood lactate at the 3(rd) and the 5(th) min (3 min: d(z) = -1.00, 95% CI [-1.95, -0.006], p = 0.022; 5 min: d(z) = -1.34, 95% CI [-2.36, -0.31], p = 0.003) and for the heart rate at 1 min post-exercise (d(z) = -0.84, 95% CI [-1.59, -0.09], p = 0.013). No consistent differences were found at other time points. The protocol showed high between-day reliability (CV = 2.47%; ICC = 0.75), supporting the validity of the observed effects. In conclusion, post-exercise use of a cooling vest after repeated sprints in the heat accelerates early superficial thermal recovery, as evidenced by reductions in skin temperature during the first minutes of recovery. Transient and isolated differences were also observed for the heart rate and blood lactate concentration; however, these effects were not sustained across the full recovery time-course. From a practical perspective, cooling vests may be useful during short recovery windows in intermittent sports, while further research is needed to determine whether broader or longer-lasting physiological benefits can be achieved.		[Lorente-Gonzalez, Carlos] Univ Lleida, Natl Inst Phys Educ Catalonia, Fac Lleida, Lleida, Spain; [Beltran-Garrido, Jose Vicente] CEU Univ, Sch Humanities & Commun Sci, Phys Exercise & Performance Res Grp, CEU Cardenal Herrera Univ,Dept Educ Sci, Castellon De La Plana, Spain; [Batalla-Gavalda, Abraham] Rovira i Virgili Univ, Univ Sch Hlth & Sport EUSES, Amposta, Spain; [Batalla-Gavalda, Abraham] Jaume I Univ, Fac Humanities & Social Sci, Dept Educ & Specif Didact, Castellon De La Plana, Spain; [Corbi, Francisco] Univ Barcelona, Fac Med & Hlth Sci, Dept Clin Sci, LHospitalet De Llobregat, Spain; [Beltran-Garrido, Jose Vicente] CEU Univ, Sch Humanities & Commun Sci, Phys Exercise & Performance Res Grp, CEU Cardenal Herrera Univ,Dept Educ Sci, Castellon De La Plana, Spain								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001736020400016	50	Article; Article		
J	Bazanska-Janas, Marta; Grzebisz-Zatonska, Natalia; Ploszczyca, Kamila; Janas, Marek; Niemaszyk, Adam; Czuba, Milosz								Acute Normobaric Hypoxia at 2000 and 3000 m Significantly Lowers the Maximal Lactate Steady State (MLSS) in Trained Cyclists: Training Implications								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				101				165	178		10.5114/jhk/217391			FEB 2026	2026	The reduced availability of oxygen under hypoxic conditions makes it necessary to adjust training intensity by reducing the workload and modifying exercise zones. The aim of this study was to evaluate the effects of normobaric hypoxia of varying severity (H2000: FiO(2) = 16.5%, similar to 2000 m; H3000: FiO(2) = 14.5%, similar to 3000 m) on physiological variables associated with the maximal lactate steady state (MLSS) in trained cyclists, including the work rate (WRMLSS), oxygen uptake (VO2MLSS), minute ventilation (VEMLSS), and the heart rate (HRMLSS). Sixteen trained male cyclists (age: 30 +/- 5 years; body height: 180.5 +/- 8.0 cm; body mass: 75.2 +/- 9.0 kg; body fat content: 10.2 +/- 2.0%; VO2max: 57.0 +/- 6.0 ml/kg/min) performed incremental and constant-load exercise tests under normoxic (N) and hypoxic (H2000 and H3000) conditions to determine the MLSS. Exposure to H2000 and H3000 significantly reduced the WRMLSS by 9.3% and 18.5%, respectively, as well as VO2MLSS by 7.2% and 17% compared with normoxia (p < 0.05), while the HRMLSS remained unchanged. SpO(2) showed a statistically significant (p < 0.05) drop between N and H2000 (-10.61%), as well as N and H3000 (-16.43%). Blood lactate concentration at the 30th min of MLSS exercise was significantly (p < 0.05) higher under both H2000 (+36%) and H3000 (+34%) conditions compared to N. These findings indicate that acute normobaric hypoxia equivalent to 2000 and 3000 m significantly impairs the ability to sustain exercise at MLSS intensity. It is recommended that MLSS power be reduced by similar to 10% at 2000 m and by similar to 20% at 3000 m, while HR values remain unchanged under both conditions.		[Bazanska-Janas, Marta; Janas, Marek] VO2MAX Sp Zoo, Wolka Radzyminska, Poland; [Grzebisz-Zatonska, Natalia; Ploszczyca, Kamila; Niemaszyk, Adam] Jozef Pilsudski Univ Phys Educ Warsaw, Fac Rehabil, Warsaw, Poland; [Czuba, Milosz] Univ Zielona Gora, Dept Appl & Clin Physiol, Coll Medicum, Zielona Gora, Poland; [Czuba, Milosz] Univ Zielona Gora, Dept Appl & Clin Physiol, Coll Medicum, Zielona Gora, Poland								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:001736020400011	46	Article; Article		
J	Kuo, Yu-Hsuan; Yang, Yun-Rong; Wu, Huey-June; Kuo, Yu-Chi								Impact of Heat and Humidity on Critical Power and Physiological Responses during the Three-Minute All-Out Test in Cyclists								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				101				305	315		10.5114/jhk/219785			FEB 2026	2026	The purpose of this study was to examine the effects of high ambient temperature and varying humidity levels on critical power (CP) and physiological variables in cyclists. Twelve male cyclists (age 36 +/- 8 years, body height 172 +/- 4 cm, body mass 72 +/- 10 kg) performed incremental exercise tests (IET) and 3-min all-out tests (3MT) under three environmental conditions: high temperature with high relative humidity (Ht-wet), high temperature with low relative humidity (Ht-dry), and neutral temperature with low relative humidity (Nt-dry). Physiological responses, including maximal oxygen uptake (VO2max) and ventilatory thresholds (VT1, VT2) were assessed relative to power output (wVO(2max), wVT(1), wVT(2)). End power (EP), anaerobic work capacity (WEP), and time to exhaustion were also measured. Results showed that VO(2max )and wVO(2max )did not differ among conditions, whereas VT2 and wVT(1) were highest under the Ntdry, intermediate under the Ht-dry, and lowest under the Ht-wet condition (p < 0.05). For VT1 and wVT(2), values under the Ht-wet condition were significantly lower than under Nt-dry and Ht-dry conditions (p < 0.05). During the 3MT, EP, peak power, and average power were significantly higher under the Nt-dry than under Ht-dry and Ht-wet conditions (p < 0.05). In conclusion, high temperature reduced 3MT performance compared with the neutral condition, with no additional decline between Ht-wet and Ht-dry conditions. In contrast, VT and wVT were most reduced under the Ht-wet condition, indicating greater impairment of submaximal physiological responses under hot-humid conditions. These results suggest that humidity mainly affects threshold-related outcomes rather than 3MT performance. Environmental heat should therefore be considered when applying 3MT-derived variables for training prescription.		[Kuo, Yu-Hsuan; Wu, Huey-June] Chinese Culture Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Taipei, Taiwan; [Yang, Yun-Rong] Natl Taiwan Normal Univ, Dept Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Taipei, Taiwan; [Wu, Huey-June] Chinese Culture Univ, Grad Inst Sport Coaching Sci, Taipei, Taiwan; [Kuo, Yu-Chi] Natl Taipei Univ Nursing & Hlth Sci, Dept Exercise & Hlth Sci, Taipei, Taiwan; [Kuo, Yu-Hsuan] Chinese Culture Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Taipei, Taiwan								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001736020400019	38	Article; Article		
J	Asin-Izquierdo, Ivan; Galiano, Carlos; Nakamura, Fabio Y.; Pareja-Blanco, Fernando H.; Asian-Clemente, Jose A.								You Play the Way You Train: The Influence of Accumulated Weekly Training Loads on Match Physical Performance in Soccer Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				101				5	20		10.5114/jhk/208874			FEB 2026	2026	The relationship between soccer players' match performance and cumulative training loads needs to be analysed. Therefore, the objectives of this study were: 1) to examine the influence of accumulated weekly training loads on subsequent mechanical match outcomes, and 2) to analyze individual variability in training and match loads using the coefficient of variation (CV) throughout the season. Internal and external loads over the entire season of 22 semiprofessional soccer players (age 23.2 +/- 4.2 years, body mass 75.0 +/- 5.8 kg, and body height 1.79 +/- 0.06 m) were analyzed. The devices used were 10-Hz Playertek+ GPS/GNSS units equipped with an inertial system and an accelerometer (Catapult Innovations, Melbourne, Australia) and the Borg scale in its 6-20 points version. The analysis of the data with the entire squad included all demarcations (except goalkeepers), however, in a second analysis players with the highest participation throughout the season were included, i.e., six defenders (three center back and three fullback players), three midfielders and three forwards (two wingers and one striker). Match high-speed running (HSR) showed significant correlations with most of the variables analyzed (r = 0.14-0.52). Training load variables analyzed (14.7-64.5%) exhibited larger CV values than those observed in matches (4.4-31.8%). Players with greater match HSR showed superior accumulated HSR during the week before the match than those who presented less match HSR (p = 0.024). The cumulative training load indicates a direct relationship with match HSR performance acutely and chronically. Thus, coaches should design tasks emphasizing HSR accumulation throughout the season.		[Asin-Izquierdo, Ivan] Univ Zaragoza, Fac Social & Human Sci, Dept Mus Plast & Corporal Express, ENFYRED Res Grp, Teruel, Spain; [Asin-Izquierdo, Ivan; Pareja-Blanco, Fernando H.] Univ Pablo de Olavide, Phys Performance & Sports Res Ctr CIRFD, Sci Based Training Res Grp, Seville, Spain; [Galiano, Carlos] Univ Loyola Andalucia, Dept Commun & Educ, Seville, Spain; [Nakamura, Fabio Y.] Univ Maia, Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev CIDESD, Dept Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Maia, Portugal; [Nakamura, Fabio Y.; Asian-Clemente, Jose A.] Football Sci Inst, FSI Lab, Granada, Spain; [Pareja-Blanco, Fernando H.; Asian-Clemente, Jose A.] Pablo de Olavide Univ, Fac Sport, Dept Sport & Informat, Seville, Spain; [Galiano, Carlos] Univ Loyola Andalucia, Dept Commun & Educ, Seville, Spain								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001736020400001	48	Article; Article		
J	Yilmaz, Muhammet; Harmanci, Halit; Ozyigit, Filiz; Atakan, Muhammed M.								Dose-Dependent Effects of Astaxanthin on Exercise-Induced Muscle Damage in Exercising Males								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				101				103	117		10.5114/jhk/210201			FEB 2026	2026	Astaxanthin (AX) is a potent antioxidant and an anti-inflammatory carotenoid. Research examining whether AX could counteract exercise-induced muscle damage and improve exercise capacity has reported inconsistent results. The aim of this study was to test the efficacy of high-dose versus low-dose AX supplementation for four weeks on muscle damage markers, total antioxidant status, and a subjective marker of muscle pain following exhaustive exercise. A total of 24 active males were randomly assigned to one of the three groups: an AX12 group (12 mg & centerdot;day-1; n = 8), an AX36 group (36 mg & centerdot;day-1; n = 9) or a placebo group (PLC, n = 7). After four weeks of supplementation, blood samples were collected at rest, and at 2, 24, 48, and 72 h following eccentric arm exercise performed at 85% of the predetermined onerepetition maximum to assess muscle damage markers and total antioxidant status, and muscle pain levels were evaluated using a Numerical Visual Pain Scale0-10. Creatine kinase activity was significantly lower in AX groups compared to the PLC group at 24, 48, and 72 h post-exercise (p < 0.05), with no difference between both AX groups (p > 0.05). At 24, 48, and 72 h post-exercise, lactate dehydrogenase activity in the PLC group was higher than in AX12 and AX36 groups, averaging 2.2 and 2.8 times higher, respectively; however, these differences were not statistically significant (p > 0.05). A significant time effect of the muscle pain score was noted at 2, 24, 48, and 72 h post-exercise (p < 0.001), with no significant differences among the supplementation protocols (p > 0.05). In conclusion, four-week AX supplementation at a dose of 12 or 36 mg & centerdot;day-1 similarly reduces plasma creatine kinase activity following exhaustive exercise, yet its impact on muscle pain and antioxidant status remains limited.		[Yilmaz, Muhammet] Sabahattin Zaim Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sports Teaching, Istanbul, Turkiye; [Harmanci, Halit] Dumlupinar Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Coaching Educ, Kutahya, Turkiye; [Ozyigit, Filiz] Onyedi Eylul Univ, Sch Med, Dept Med Pharmacol, Bandirma, Turkiye; [Atakan, Muhammed M.] Hacettepe Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Div Exercise Nutr & Metab, Ankara, Turkiye; [Atakan, Muhammed M.] Hacettepe Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Div Exercise Nutr & Metab, Ankara, Turkiye								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001736020400007	47	Article; Article		
J	Eler, Nebahat; Akalin, Tevfik Cem; Eler, Serdar; Joksimovic, Marko								Data-Driven External-Load Analytics: Integrating Cluster Analysis and ACWR Monitoring in Elite Handball								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				101				119	132		10.5114/jhk/217125			FEB 2026	2026	The aim of this study was to characterize multidimensional external-load profiles obtained from sensor-based tracking data over a four-month competitive period in an elite men's handball team and to investigate their associations with the session type, the playing position, and weekly workload fluctuations, as measured by the acute:chronic workload ratio (ACWR). Data were collected from 23 elite players using an ultra-wideband tracking system. Six variables, i.e., total distance, maximum speed, accumulated acceleration load (AAL), the number of exertions, maximum jump height, and the number of jumps >= 0.30 m, were standardized and clustered using k-means (k = 4). The cluster with the highest composite z-score was defined as a high load. The association between weekly density of high-load sessions and the likelihood of an ACWR spike (>= 1.30) was tested using logistic regression. Results showed that match sessions were 1.8 times more likely than training sessions to fall into the high-load cluster. Wings and center-backs were significantly more represented in high-load clusters than goalkeepers and pivots. Additionally, when 15% or more of the previous week's sessions were classified as of the high load, the odds of an ACWR spike in the following week increased by 10.7 times. These findings suggest that data-driven (unsupervised) clustering of external-load variables supports early identification of high-risk workload patterns. Monitoring the weekly distribution of high-load sessions may help mitigate fatigue-related maladaptation by enabling proactive, position-specific load management in elite handball.		[Eler, Nebahat; Eler, Serdar] Gazi Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Ankara, Turkiye; [Akalin, Tevfik Cem] Zonguldak Bulent Ecevit Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Zonguldak, Turkiye; [Joksimovic, Marko] Univ Montenegro, Fac Sport & Phys Educ, Niksic, Montenegro; [Eler, Nebahat] Gazi Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Ankara, Turkiye								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001736020400008	34	Article; Article		
J	Gnanasigamani, Moses; Kiruba, Jennifer M.; Chmura, Pawed								Multifactorial Thresholds of Psychomotor Fatigue in Soccer: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis of Randomized Controlled Trials								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				101				49	71		10.5114/jhk/212912			FEB 2026	2026	The present study addressed the complex nature of fatigue in soccer, examining its physical, psychological, neuromuscular, and metabolic dimensions. It evaluated the impact of these different types of fatigue on players' performance, highlighting the importance of comprehensive fatigue-management strategies for enhancing performance and reducing injury risk among soccer players. The primary aim of this study was to investigate the effects of various types of fatigue on performance of male soccer players across different competitive levels, through a systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials. A total of 37 randomized controlled trials involving male soccer players were included, following the PRISMA (Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses) guidelines to assess the multifaceted impacts of fatigue. Key findings revealed that neuromuscular fatigue had the highest mean effect size (0.63), with substantial consistency across studies (95% CI: 0.45-0.80, I2 = 99.79%). Physical and metabolic fatigue both showed a mean effect size of 0.38, though they differed in variability; metabolic fatigue demonstrated considerable heterogeneity (I2 = 98.73%), reflecting diverse physiological responses, while physical fatigue showed moderate consistency (I2 = 98.20%). Psychological fatigue had a significant impact on performance (mean effect size: 0.57), with variability (I2 = 97.08%) suggesting context-dependent effects. These results underscore the necessity of a multimodal approach that integrates physical, metabolic, neuromuscular, and psychological interventions to optimize soccer performance and mitigate injury risk. Practical implications include the adoption of targeted recovery strategies such as inter-set recovery intervals and whole-body vibration techniques, as well as the implementation of mental resilience and cognitive training to manage psychological fatigue. Such strategies are essential for developing individualized training and recovery protocols that enhance athletic performance and support long-term career sustainability.		[Gnanasigamani, Moses] Wroclaw Univ Hlth & Sport Sci, Dept Team Games, Wroclaw, Poland; [Kiruba, Jennifer M.; Chmura, Pawed] Wrocdaw Univ Sci & Technol, Fac Chem, Dept Chem Engn, Wroclaw, Poland; [Chmura, Pawed] Univ Southern Denmark, Dept Sports Sci & Clin Biomech, Sport & Hlth Sci Cluster SHSC, Odense, Denmark; [Chmura, Pawed] Wrocdaw Univ Sci & Technol, Fac Chem, Dept Chem Engn, Wroclaw, Poland; [Chmura, Pawed] Univ Southern Denmark, Dept Sports Sci & Clin Biomech, Sport & Hlth Sci Cluster SHSC, Odense, Denmark								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001736020400004	87	Article; Article		
J	Dulla, Joseph M.; Orr, Robin M.; Lockie, Robert; Schram, Ben; Canetti, Elisa; Dawes, J. Jay								Law Enforcement Training in the United States of America: A Narrative Review								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				48	1			78	87		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000915			FEB 2026	2026	The United States has over 17,500 local, regional, and state law enforcement (LE) agencies with initial (academy) training occurring across 822 local academies operated by academic entities (usually community or technical colleges), local LE agencies, regional training centers, and state academies. Numerous federal agencies with LE powers also conduct academy training across numerous sites. At the same time, the United States does not possess one unified set of selection, curriculum (content or hours), training, exit, injury surveillance, or training methodology laws, regulations, or enforceable standards. Each state sets its own standards with many academies adding to state minimums. This results in LE recruitment and training that is extremely diverse, challenging, evolving, complex, multifaceted, and mostly driven at and across local (city, county, and state) levels. As a result, those responsible for recruit physical fitness development must possess a deep level of understanding of these diverse populations, protocols, and rules. This narrative review provides a snapshot of the extremely complex combination of factors associated with LE and LE training as, for those involved in LE training, failure to understand these factors will impend any human performance initiatives.		[Dulla, Joseph M.; Orr, Robin M.; Schram, Ben; Canetti, Elisa] Bond Univ, Fac Hlth Sci & Med, Robina, Qld, Australia; [Dulla, Joseph M.; Orr, Robin M.; Schram, Ben; Canetti, Elisa] Bond Univ, Tact Res Unit, Robina, Qld, Australia; [Lockie, Robert] Calif State Univ Fullerton, Dept Kinesiol, Fullerton, CA USA; [Dawes, J. Jay] Oklahoma State Univ, Dept Kinesiol Appl Hlth & Recreat, Stillwater, OK USA; [Dulla, Joseph M.] Bond Univ, Fac Hlth Sci & Med, Robina, Qld, Australia; [Dulla, Joseph M.] Bond Univ, Tact Res Unit, Robina, Qld, Australia								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001678169800002	66	Article; Article		
J	Maestroni, Luca; Turner, Anthony; Tourillon, Romain; Read, Paul								Optimizing Physical Recovery in Male Field Sport Athletes Following Anterior Cruciate Ligament Reconstruction: Residual Deficits, Performance Targets, and Training Strategies								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				48	1			54	64		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000911			FEB 2026	2026	Despite passing a battery of tests and being considered ready to return to sport, residual deficits in physical capacity of the lower limb are commonly present in multidirectional athletes following an anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) reconstruction. These can have a detrimental impact on individual and overall team athletic performance and may increase the risk of reinjury. Targeted strategies to assess and restore lower limb performance within rehabilitation are therefore crucial. The aim of this review was to (a) describe common residual deficits in physical capacities after ACL reconstruction, (b) highlight achievable performance metrics to target during rehabilitation to assist practitioners in collecting useful information, and (c) propose examples of evidence-based strategies to restore full recovery.		[Maestroni, Luca] ReAct, Via Madonna Neve, Bergamo, BG, Italy; [Maestroni, Luca; Turner, Anthony] Middlesex Univ, London Sport Inst, Sch Sci & Technol, Greenlands Lane, London, England; [Tourillon, Romain] Univ Jean Monnet St Etienne Lyon 1, Univ Savoie Mont Blanc, Interuniv Lab Human Movement Sci EA 7424, St Etienne, France; [Tourillon, Romain] La Tour Hosp, Swiss Olymp Med Ctr, Physiotherapy Dept, Meyrin, Switzerland; [Tourillon, Romain] La Tour Hosp, Swiss Olymp Med Ctr, Mot Anal Lab, Meyrin, Switzerland; [Read, Paul] Inst Sport Exercise & Hlth, London, England; [Read, Paul] Univ Gloucestershire, Sch Sport & Exercise, Gloucester, England; [Read, Paul] UCL, Div Surg & Intervent Sci, London, England; [Read, Paul] St Marys Univ, Fac Sport Allied Hlth & Performance Sci, Twickenham, England; [Read, Paul] ACL Rehab Online, London, England; [Maestroni, Luca] ReAct, Via Madonna Neve, Bergamo, BG, Italy; [Maestroni, Luca] Middlesex Univ, London Sport Inst, Sch Sci & Technol, Greenlands Lane, London, England								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001678169800001	134	Article; Article		
J	Reese, Lauren T.; Schultz, Cassidy M.; Van Pelt, Robert L.; Lampe, Katherine; Chung, Jane S.; Miller, Shane M.; Wyatt, Charles W.; Ellis, Henry B.; Wilson, Philip L.; Jones, Jacob C.								Sex-based differences in pediatric lateral ankle avulsion fractures: males are more likely to sustain avulsion fractures								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				54	3			207	213		10.1080/00913847.2026.2620362			MAY 4 2026	2026	Objective: To assess sex-based differences in the frequency and characteristics of pediatric lateral ankle avulsion fractures. Methods: This prospective observational cohort study (Level II) was conducted at a tertiary sports medicine clinic between July 2022 and March 2025. This study included a total of 132 patients with 133 injuries aged 5-12 years presenting within 30 days of a first-time lateral ankle injury (67.4% female and 32.6% male). Injuries were categorized as avulsion or non-avulsion using ultrasound as the reference standard. Demographics, injury type and mechanism, sport type, and validated patient-reported measures were analyzed by sex using chi-squared and Mann-Whitney U tests. Results: Males were found to be significantly more likely to sustain lateral ankle avulsion fractures than their female counterparts (50.0% vs. 24.1%, p < 0.01). There were no statistically significant differences between the avulsion and non-avulsion groups for age, race, ethnicity, BMI, or days to presentation. Sport during injury did vary by sex (p = 0.02), but the cause of injury did not. Pain, mobility, anxiety, and Pedi-FABS scores did not vary between sexes at presentation, regardless of their avulsion status. Conclusions: Our study demonstrated that males with lateral ankle injuries were more likely to sustain avulsion fractures than females in this pediatric population. Despite these differences in injury type, both sexes reported similar levels of function, anxiety, pain, and activity at initial presentation. Understanding early sex-based differences in lateral ankle fracture patterns may inform diagnostic evaluation and management in pediatric patients.		[Reese, Lauren T.; Chung, Jane S.; Miller, Shane M.; Wyatt, Charles W.; Ellis, Henry B.; Wilson, Philip L.; Jones, Jacob C.] Univ Texas Southwestern, Sch Med, Dallas, TX USA; [Schultz, Cassidy M.; Van Pelt, Robert L.; Lampe, Katherine; Chung, Jane S.; Miller, Shane M.; Wyatt, Charles W.; Ellis, Henry B.; Wilson, Philip L.; Jones, Jacob C.] Scottish Rite Children, Dept Sports Med, 5700 Dallas Pkwy, Frisco, TX 75034 USA; [Jones, Jacob C.] Scottish Rite Children, Dept Sports Med, 5700 Dallas Pkwy, Frisco, TX 75034 USA								1							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001673116400001	31	Article; Article		
J	Chahal, Amandeep K.; Phua, Philip Y. X.; Kong, Pui W.								Task difficulty and passing decision-making in skilled netball players: An eye tracking study								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541251414997				2026	This study investigated skilled netball players' visual behaviour during a sport-specific decision-making passing task under varying levels of difficulty. Twelve highly skilled female netball players from Singapore's Division 1 league wore eye-tracking glasses while completing 10 simulated netball scenarios projected life-size on a screen. Each scenario varied in difficulty based on the number of open players: one (difficult), two (medium) or three (easy). Participants were instructed to make decision within three seconds and to physically pass a ball to a teammate on the screen. Their visual (foveal) focus, quiet eye and decision time were compared. Results showed that participants focused more on their teammates compared to opponents (p < .001) and other areas (p < .001) and recorded longer fixation durations for difficult conditions compared to medium (p < .001) and easy (p = .003). While quiet eye durations did not differ across task difficulty, participants took significantly longer to make a decision in difficult (p < .001) and medium (p = .019) scenarios as compared to easy scenarios. In conclusion, skilled netball players rely on direct cues from teammates more than opponents during passing decision-making. In situations of greater uncertainty, they require more time to process visual information before making a decision.		[Chahal, Amandeep K.; Phua, Philip Y. X.; Kong, Pui W.] Nanyang Technol Univ, Natl Inst Educ, Phys Educ & Sports Sci Acad Dept, 1 Nanyang Walk, Singapore 637616, Singapore; [Kong, Pui W.] Nanyang Technol Univ, Natl Inst Educ, Phys Educ & Sports Sci Acad Dept, 1 Nanyang Walk, Singapore 637616, Singapore								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001673997100001	51	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Ascondo, J.; Marcos-Rivero, B.; Picabea, J. M.; Granados, C.; Yanci, J.								Evolution of physiological responses and quantification of neuromuscular fatigue during competition in male amateur padel players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541251415003				2026	Although research on padel has increased in recent decades, the evolution of physiological responses and the analysis of muscular fatigue during competition have been scarcely investigated. This study aimed to analyze the progression of physiological responses and neuromuscular capacity throughout matches in amateur padel players. A total of 52 amateur players participated. Heart rate (HRpeak, HRavg), time in intensity zones (Z1-Z4), and internal load (TRIMPEdwards) were recorded across sets. Countermovement jump (CMJ) and handgrip strength were assessed pre- and post-set. Significant rises were observed in HRpeak and HRavg between set (S) 1 and S2 (p <= 0.035, d = -0.16 to -0.17, no effect). Regarding time spent in Z2 and Z3, notable increases were found between S2 and S3 (p <= 0.006, d = -0.71 to -0.86). For Z4, significant increases were also observed between S1 and S2 (p = 0.047, d = -0.26), and between S2 and S3 (p = 0.043, d = -0.58). Moreover, TRIMPEdwards significantly increased from S1 to S3 (p < 0.001, d = -1.18) and from S2 to S3 (p < 0.001, d = -1.32), indicating greater physiological demands in the final sets. No performance decline associated with fatigue was observed in CMJ or handgrip tests. The highest physiological demands occurred in the third set, highlighting the need to train cardiovascular endurance and the ability to sustain high-intensity efforts.		[Ascondo, J.; Marcos-Rivero, B.; Granados, C.; Yanci, J.] Univ Basque Country UPV EHU, Fac Educ & Sport, Dept Phys & Sports Educ, AKTIBOki Res Grp Phys Act Exercise & Sport, Portal de Lasarte 71, Vitoria 01007, Spain; [Ascondo, J.; Marcos-Rivero, B.; Picabea, J. M.; Granados, C.; Yanci, J.] Univ Basque Country UPV EHU, Fac Educ & Sport, Phys Educ & Sport Dept, Soc Sports & Phys Exercise Res Grp GIKAFIT, Vitoria, Spain; [Marcos-Rivero, B.] Univ Basque Country UPV EHU, Fac Educ & Sport, Dept Phys & Sports Educ, AKTIBOki Res Grp Phys Act Exercise & Sport, Portal de Lasarte 71, Vitoria 01007, Spain								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001673161100001	39	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Sabag, Eran; Morgulev, Elia; Raphaeli, Mike; Bar-Eli, Michael								Teamwork among NBA referees: An analysis of three-person officiating mechanics and decision-making accuracy								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541251414618				2026	This study examined teamwork among National Basketball Association (NBA) referees, focusing on three-person officiating (3PO) mechanics and the association between accuracy and secondary coverage area decisions. We relied on four seasons of Last Two Minute (L2M) reports to sample 498 correct and 513 erroneous calls. Each correct and erroneous call was then classified to either originating from within the referee's primary coverage area or originating from his secondary coverage area as prescribed by NBA regulations. We also analyzed the distribution of calls among the three officiating roles on the court: Lead, Trail, and Slot (Center). The results indicate a significant association between accuracy and teamwork: in correct calls, secondary coverage areas decisions occurred in 16.9% of cases, whereas in erroneous calls this rate increased to 25.0% (p < 0.01). Further, the findings underscore the importance of coordination between referees, particularly adherence to prescribed coverage areas. Future studies should examine how variations in referees' positioning and viewing angles within and between coverage areas may influence teamwork dynamics and decision accuracy.		[Sabag, Eran; Morgulev, Elia] Levinsky Wingate Acad Coll, Phys Educ, Wingate Campus, IL-4290200 Netanya, Israel; [Morgulev, Elia] Kaye Acad Coll Educ, Phys Educ, Beer Sheva, Israel; [Raphaeli, Mike] Nanning Vocat & Tech Univ, English Dept, Nanning, Peoples R China; [Bar-Eli, Michael] Ben Gurion Univ Negev, Business Adm, Beer Sheva, Israel; [Sabag, Eran] Levinsky Wingate Acad Coll, Phys Educ, Wingate Campus, IL-4290200 Netanya, Israel								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001673175400001	34	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Brtva, Pavel; Mulloy, Franky; Hamill, Joseph; Irwin, Gareth; Farana, Roman								Integration of coordination and kinetic analysis reveals mechanisms of upper limb joint loading and technique-specific strategies in female gymnastics								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2026.2618629				2026	This study aimed to identify differences in upper-limb coordination by integrating vector coding with joint kinetics across three round-off (RO) techniques to better explain potential injury mechanisms. Twelve female gymnasts performed six trials of each RO technique (Parallel, Reverse, T-shape). The kinematic and kinetic data were collected. All analyses focused on the contact phase of the second hand. Elbow and Wrist joint flexion/extension (E-F/E-W-F/E) and rotation (E-ROT-W-ROT) couplings were assessed using modified vector coding to determine coupling angle (CA) and variability (CAV). Elbow joint adduction/abduction moments (M-elbow) and joint power (JP(elbow)) were calculated using inverse dynamics. Joint kinetics and CA were overlaid on the same plots to visualise how kinetic patterns corresponded with coordination dynamics. Results showed decreased M-elbow using the T-shape technique (p < 0.001) with E-ROT-W-ROT in-phase, while Reverse and Parallel techniques exhibited anti-phase with increased M-elbow (p < 0.001) and lower CAV using Reverse technique. Furthermore, E-F/E-W-F/E coupling revealed technique-specific control strategies; notably, the T-shape technique exhibited a different transition from anti-phase to in-phase motion, indicating a potentially more effective transfer from JP(elbow) absorption to generation. The result provides new insights into the underlying mechanism of these differences through integration of coordination analysis with traditional biomechanics.		[Brtva, Pavel; Hamill, Joseph; Irwin, Gareth; Farana, Roman] Univ Ostrava, Dept Human Movement Studies, Ostrava, Czech Republic; [Mulloy, Franky] Cincinnati Reds, Cincinnati, OH USA; [Hamill, Joseph] Univ Massachusetts, Sch Publ Hlth & Hlth Sci, Amherst, MA USA; [Irwin, Gareth] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Cardiff Sch Sport & Hlth Sci, Cardiff, Wales; [Brtva, Pavel] Univ Ostrava, Dept Human Movement Studies, Ostrava, Czech Republic								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001669621700001	36	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Smulligan, Katherine L.; Armento, Aubrey M.; Wingerson, Mathew J.; Brna, Madison L.; Nagle, Shannon; Meehan, William P.; Wilson, Julie C.; Howell, David R.								Physical activity and caloric expenditure after adolescent concussion: a comparison with uninjured controls								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				54	3			200	206		10.1080/00913847.2026.2617854			MAY 4 2026	2026	Purpose-Concussion-induced pathophysiology creates an energetic imbalance within the brain. Though physical activity (PA) is recommended to facilitate recovery, individualized factors such as symptom severity and/or energy availability may be barriers to PA engagement and may need to be considered to promote concussion recovery. Our purpose was to compare PA over a one-week period between adolescents with and without a recent concussion. Methods-Adolescent athletes within 3 weeks of concussion and uninjured athletes wore wrist-worn actigraphy devices for one week to quantify three outcomes: PA (steps/day), caloric expenditure, and resting heart rate (RHR). We used linear mixed models with random slopes and random intercepts for participants to examine between-group differences for each outcome over the monitoring period, adjusting for variables that differed between groups. Results-We enrolled and followed 149 adolescents for one week: 85 with concussion (starting at 9.2 +/- 3.5 days post-injury, age = 15.3 +/- 1.8 years, 52% female) and 64 uninjured controls (age = 15.4 +/- 1.5 years, 61% female). After adjusting for covariates, the concussion group took fewer steps/day (beta = -4837 steps/day; 95%CI: -6266, -3409; p < 0.001) and expended fewer calories (beta = -338 calories; 95%CI: -512, -164; p = 0.001) than controls during the monitoring period. RHR was similar between groups (beta = 0.74 beats/min; 95%CI: -2.41, 3.88; p = 0.65). Conclusion-Adolescents after recent concussion demonstrated lower PA and expended fewer calories than uninjured controls, indicating that it may take several weeks after concussion to resume PA levels similar to uninjured peers. Our results may reflect participants following concussion guidelines/physician guidance to gradually increase PA during concussion recovery as tolerated without symptom exacerbation, leading to less PA engagement compared to controls. Further research into energy needs after concussion may inform therapeutic targets to facilitate recovery.		[Smulligan, Katherine L.; Nagle, Shannon; Meehan, William P.] Boston Childrens Hosp, Div Sports Med, Boston, MA USA; [Armento, Aubrey M.; Wingerson, Mathew J.; Wilson, Julie C.; Howell, David R.] Univ Colorado, Sch Med, Dept Orthoped, Aurora, CO USA; [Armento, Aubrey M.; Wingerson, Mathew J.; Wilson, Julie C.; Howell, David R.] Childrens Hosp Colorado, Sports Med Ctr, Aurora, CO USA; [Brna, Madison L.] Univ North Carolina, Sch Med, Chapel Hill, NC USA; [Wilson, Julie C.] Univ Colorado, Sch Med, Dept Pediat, Aurora, CO USA; [Smulligan, Katherine L.] Boston Childrens Hosp, Div Sports Med, 9 Hope Ave, Waltham, MA 02453 USA; [Smulligan, Katherine L.] Boston Childrens Hosp, Div Sports Med, 9 Hope Ave, Waltham, MA 02453 USA								1							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001663626200001	33	Article; Article		
J	Pavlasova, Katerina; Bizovska, L.; Rupcik, L.; Farana, R.; Janura, M.								The influence of lower limb muscle activity on postural stabilisation during landing in female artistic gymnasts								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2025.2608309				2026	The aim of this study was to assess the influence of lower limb muscle activity and postural stabilisation during landings after various motor tasks. Seventeen gymnasts (aged 13.7 +/- 2.0 years) performed landings after four tasks: drop landing, forward somersault, backward somersault, backward acrobatic series. Postural stabilisation during landing was assessed using an inertial sensor placed on the lumbar spine, from which data was used to determine the dynamic stability index and time to stabilisation. Muscle activity was assessed using surface electromyography in six lower limb muscles. The results showed that the muscle activity of the lower limbs differs according to the difficulty and direction of the motor task preceding the landing. The activity of the knee flexors and plantar flexors during landing after forward and backward motor tasks proved to be more beneficial for improving postural stabilisation. The study shows the importance of balanced muscle activation of the hip, knee and ankle flexors and extensors during landing, especially for injury prevention and effective execution of difficult gymnastic landings.		[Pavlasova, Katerina; Bizovska, L.; Janura, M.] Palacky Univ Olomouc, Fac Phys Culture, Dept Nat Sci Kinanthropol, Olomouc, Czech Republic; [Rupcik, L.] Comenius Univ, Dept Gymnast Dance Fitness & Combat Sports, Bratislava, Slovakia; [Farana, R.] Univ Ostrava, Fac Educ, Dept Human Movement Studies, Ostrava, Czech Republic; [Pavlasova, Katerina] Palacky Univ Olomouc, Fac Phys Culture, Dept Nat Sci Kinanthropol, Olomouc, Czech Republic								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001662407800001	48	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Kittel, Aden; Larkin, Paul; Lindsay, Riki; Broadbent, David; Bruce, Lyndell; Wilkins, Luke								Athlete perceptions of in-person training, extended reality and video technologies for perceptual-cognitive development: A qualitative exploration of developmental American football quarterbacks' perspectives								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541251407997				2026	Advancements in technologies such as 360 degrees video and virtual reality (VR) open new possibilities for how athletes can train their perceptual-cognitive skills. However, few studies have explored the athletes' perception of these different training approaches qualitatively. Therefore, this study engaged three quarterbacks (QBs) from an Australian American football team in four different sport-specific training approaches (on-field, 360 degrees video, VR, traditional video) and explored their thoughts and preferences in relation to how each could help develop their perceptual-cognitive skills. The developmental QBs participated in semi-structured interviews after each of the training approaches. Interpretive Phenomenological Analysis was used to explore participants' unique experiences of each approach. Two primary themes were identified, along with secondary themes: 'Opportunities for training perceptual-cognitive skills' (sub-themes: Making the best decision; Where to look; Awareness and reflection), and 'Factors influencing perceptual-cognitive skill development' (sub-themes: Control of movements; Realism). All participants ranked on-field training as their preferred approach, with two participants then ranking the technologies as 360 degrees video > VR > traditional video, and one participant ordering them VR > traditional video>360 degrees video. The findings can be contextualised through an ecological dynamics framework; specifically, the first theme in relation to affordances for action, while the second theme relates to perception-action coupling and representative learning design. Overall, the study provides unique individual insights on QBs' perceptions and preferences towards technologies such as 360 degrees video and VR and how they may be utilised to develop perceptual-cognitive skills. Future research should look to build on these findings by examining whether the positive perceptions transfer to actual performance improvements in a longitudinal intervention design.		[Kittel, Aden; Broadbent, David; Bruce, Lyndell] Deakin Univ, Sch Exercise & Nutr Sci, Inst Phys Act & Nutr, Ctr Sport Res, Melbourne, Australia; [Kittel, Aden; Larkin, Paul] Victoria Univ, Inst Hlth & Sport, Melbourne, Australia; [Larkin, Paul] Maribyrnong Sport Acad Res Ctr, Melbourne, Australia; [Lindsay, Riki] Federat Univ, Inst Educ Arts & Community, Mt Helen, Vic, Australia; [Wilkins, Luke] La Trobe Univ, Sports Performance & Nutr SPAN Res Grp, Melbourne, Australia; [Kittel, Aden] Deakin Univ, Sch Exercise & Nutr Sci, Inst Phys Act & Nutr, Ctr Sport Res, Geelong, Vic, Australia								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001663683000001	74	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Preissler, Artur Avelino Birk; Schons, Pedro; Moraes Klein, Lucas; Droescher de Vargas, Guilherme; Gaya, Adroaldo Cezar Araujo; Borin, Joao Paulo; Alexandre Peyre-Tartaruga, Leonardo; Martins Kruel, Luiz Fernando								Mathematical model to support the identification of young football players with sufficient physical fitness to join professional women's teams								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541251407496				2026	The recent growth of women's football in Brazil, alongside the expansion of professional competitions, has increased the demand for young players to join elite teams. This scenario raises important questions about players' physical readiness and the tools required to identify those capable of meeting the physical demands of professional football. This study aimed to propose a mathematical model to support the identification of young female football players with the physical fitness profile necessary to integrate professional teams. A total of 121 players participated in the study, including 88 youth and 33 professional athletes, with average ages of 15.81 +/- 1.77 and 25.48 +/- 5.33 years, respectively. All participants were assessed for anthropometric characteristics and physical performance. Discriminant function analysis was used to construct the model, with significance set at alpha<0.05. The model included four physical tests: countermovement jump (cm), 20-m sprint (s), 20-m change of direction (COD 20-m) (s), and Yo-Yo Intermittent Recovery Level 1 (m). COD 20-m showed the highest correlation with the discriminant scores (r = -0.855). The four variables explained 30.6% of group classification. According to the model, 26.1% of youth players demonstrated a physical profile compatible with professional standards, while 84.8% of professional players were correctly identified as belonging to the professional group based on their physical fitness. Therefore, the proposed model is a useful and complementary tool in the multifactorial process of talent identification, supporting coaches and performance staff in selecting young female players with the physical qualities required to transition into professional teams.		[Preissler, Artur Avelino Birk; Schons, Pedro; Moraes Klein, Lucas; Droescher de Vargas, Guilherme; Gaya, Adroaldo Cezar Araujo; Alexandre Peyre-Tartaruga, Leonardo; Martins Kruel, Luiz Fernando] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Sul, Sch Phys Educ Physiotherapy & Dance, Porto Alegre, Brazil; [Preissler, Artur Avelino Birk; Schons, Pedro; Droescher de Vargas, Guilherme] Fac SOGIPA, Porto Alegre, Brazil; [Borin, Joao Paulo] Univ Estadual Campinas, Fac Phys Educ, Campinas, Brazil; [Preissler, Artur Avelino Birk] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Sul, Exercise Res Lab, Rua Felizardo 750, BR-90690200 Porto Alegre, Brazil								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001663682600001	43	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Jiang, Benqiao (Stella); Byon, Kevin K.								Factors influencing sport fans' purchase of sport-related nonfungible tokens (NFTs)								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP											10.1108/IJSMS-06-2025-0253				2026	PurposeThis article examines the motivations behind sport fans' purchases of nonfungible token (NFT) products, focusing on both hedonic and utilitarian factors. It also investigates the moderating role of team and athlete identification in shaping these motivations. The study aims to expand the literature on consumer behavior and sport management by examining how emerging digital assets, such as NFTs, impact fan engagement and purchasing behavior.Design/methodology/approachThe study employed a quantitative approach using a survey of 142 sport NFT consumers recruited from online platforms such as Reddit, Discord, and Facebook. Motivations were measured using validated scales assessing five constructs (financial gain, ownership, drama, enjoyment and socialization) and fan identification. Confirmatory factor analysis (CFA) and moderation analyses were conducted to test the proposed model.FindingsThe results confirmed that all five motivation factors significantly influence the intention to purchase sport NFT products. Additionally, team and athlete identification significantly moderated the effects of hedonic motivations (drama, enjoyment and socialization), reinforcing the role of social identity in digital fan behavior. Group comparisons revealed that individuals with higher purchase quantities or higher spending values tend to emphasize different motivational dimensions, such as drama and financial gain.Originality/valueThis study empirically tested a theoretical model of sport NFT purchase motivations, integrating hedonic and utilitarian perspectives with social identity theory. It contributes to both academic literature and practical applications in the rapidly evolving landscape of digital sport merchandise.		[Jiang, Benqiao (Stella); Byon, Kevin K.] Indiana Univ Bloomington, Dept Kinesiol, Bloomington, IN 47405 USA; [Jiang, Benqiao (Stella)] Arkansas State Univ, Coll Educ & Behav Sci, Dept Hlth Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Jonesboro, AR 72401 USA; [Byon, Kevin K.] Southern Methodist Univ, Simmons Sch Educ & Human Dev, Dept Appl Physiol & Sport Management, Dallas, TX USA; [Jiang, Benqiao (Stella)] Indiana Univ Bloomington, Dept Kinesiol, Bloomington, IN 47405 USA; [Jiang, Benqiao (Stella)] Arkansas State Univ, Coll Educ & Behav Sci, Dept Hlth Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Jonesboro, AR 72401 USA								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001662016600001	48	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Thompson, Sam; Arthur, Rosie; Naughton, Robert J.; Morgan, Oliver; Nayler, Jack; Buchanan, Janice; Unnithan, Viswanath B.								A nutritional intervention within highly trained youth soccer players using a COM-B model of behaviour change: A case series approach								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541251409330				2026	Large inter-individual variability in daily energy and carbohydrate intake has been reported in highly-trained academy soccer players, potentially impacting training and match day performance, recovery and physical development. Nutritional interventions in these cohorts typically rely on group education without behaviour change theory, limiting their long-term effectiveness. Consequently, this study aimed to improve the nutritional intake of highly-trained youth soccer players via an individualised, theory-driven dietary behaviour change programme. This mixed-method case series utilised the COM-B model and Behaviour Change Wheel (BCW) to design and implement an eight-week dietary behaviour change programme in three full-time (16.7 +/- 0.3 years) academy players (P1; P2; P3). Education and enablement were used to improve players' understanding of their energy and macronutrient requirements, alongside training to develop practical nutrition skills. Environmental restructuring was used to modify players' physical environment, ensuring they had appropriate food when away from the club. Daily energy intake increased by 55%, 19% and 24% for P1, P2 and P3, respectively, corresponding with DXA-derived fat-free mass gains of 1.4, 0.5 and 0.3 kg. Absolute carbohydrate intake increased by 217, 78 and 110 g.day-1 respectively, alongside improved fuelling practices around match day. Qualitative insights uncovered improvements in nutritional knowledge and cooking skills (Psychological and Physical Capability), while a desire to improve physical characteristics (Reflective Motivation) was a key adherence factor. The COM-B model and BCW provided a structured framework for designing an effective dietary behaviour change programme that successfully improved dietary behaviours in three highly trained youth soccer players.		[Thompson, Sam; Unnithan, Viswanath B.] Univ West Scotland, Sport & Phys Act Res Inst, Sch Hlth & Life Sci, Hamilton, Scotland; [Thompson, Sam] Celt Football Club, Glasgow, Scotland; [Arthur, Rosie] Queen Margaret Univ, Sch Arts Social Sci & Management, Div Psychol Sociol & Educ, Edinburgh, Scotland; [Naughton, Robert J.] England & Wales Cricket Board, London, England; [Morgan, Oliver] Leicester City Football Club, Leicester, England; [Nayler, Jack] Everton Football Club, Liverpool, England; [Buchanan, Janice] Strathclyde Univ, Glasgow, Scotland; [Unnithan, Viswanath B.] Univ West Scotland, Hlth & Life Sci, Technol Ave, Glasgow G72 0LH, Scotland								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001661570100001	50	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Ji, Yulsoo; Lee, Doheung; Kwon, Sungho								Athlete identity and grit among adolescent athletes: The mediating role of active coping strategies								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541251411311				2026	Grit is essential for adolescent athletes who must persist through failures, injuries, and prolonged competitive demands, yet limited research has examined the psychological processes that cultivate grit in youth sport. This study investigated whether athlete identity fosters grit through adaptive coping strategies. A survey of 262 adolescent athletes registered with the Korean Sport & Olympic Committee assessed athlete identity, problem-focused coping, emotion-focused coping, and grit. Data were analyzed using Hayes' PROCESS macro Model 4 in SPSS 25.0. Results showed that athlete identity positively predicted grit, and it also positively predicted both problem-focused coping and emotion-focused coping. In turn, each coping strategy positively predicted grit. Moreover, both coping strategies significantly mediated the relationship between athlete identity and grit. These results highlight that athlete identity is linked to grit through its association with adaptive coping processes, offering insight into patterns of perseverance among adolescent athletes. They also offer practical guidance for coaches and sport organizations seeking to cultivate perseverance and promote sustained engagement in sport.		[Ji, Yulsoo] Univ Florida, Dept Sport Management, Gainesville, FL USA; [Lee, Doheung] Seoul Natl Univ, SNU BK21 Training Program Global Leaders Sports Sc, Seoul, South Korea; [Kwon, Sungho] Seoul Natl Univ, Dept Phys Educ, 1 Gwanak Ro, Seoul 08826, South Korea; [Kwon, Sungho] Seoul Natl Univ, Dept Phys Educ, 1 Gwanak Ro, Seoul 08826, South Korea								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001661156800001	72	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Klein, Matthew; Patterson, Christopher; Cipriani, Daniel								Predictive relationships between propulsive single-leg horizontal hopping and running kinetics in masters runners with and without Achilles tendinopathy								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				78						101895	10.1016/j.ptsp.2026.101895			MAR 2026	2026	Objectives: Achilles tendinopathy (AT) is the most common injury among masters runners. The single-leg horizontal hop test (SLHH) is a common return to running test utilized to assess the propulsive phase of running. The purpose of this study was to investigate the kinetic relationships between the SLHH test and running in masters runners with and without AT. Design: Cross-Sectional Observational Study. Setting: University Biomechanics Lab. Participants: Thirty-two master runners over age fifty were included, with 16 with AT (60.31 +/- 8.37) and without AT (59.93 +/- 4.95). Main outcome measures: 3D motion capture and force plates were used to assess peak joint moments and powers during the SLHH and running. A simple linear regression was used to establish relationships. Results: Masters runners with AT demonstrated SLHH peak lower extremity joint moments that were predictive of running peak lower extremity joint moments. Healthy masters runners demonstrated SLHH peak ankle plantarflexion moments that were predictive of running peak ankle plantarflexion moments. Both groups demonstrated SLHH peak ankle plantarflexion powers that were predictive of running peak ankle plantarflexion powers. Conclusions: The SLHH hop test may be an appropriate tool to predict running kinetics in masters runners with AT but not healthy masters runners.		[Klein, Matthew] George Fox Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Newberg, OR 97132 USA; [Klein, Matthew; Patterson, Christopher] Azusa Pacific Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Azusa, CA USA; [Cipriani, Daniel] Hawaii Pacific Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Honolulu, HI USA; [Klein, Matthew] 448 Werth Blvd, Newberg, OR 97132 USA								1							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001687045200001	42	Article; Article		
J	Zhang, Zhuojing; Chen, Tao								NBA all-time scoring champion vs. 10-time season scoring champion: Which record is more unlikely?								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541251408011				2026	Given its popularity and large market value, professional basketball has attracted increased academic attention over the past few decades. We employ the Extreme Value Theory (EVT) to compare two almost unreachable records in NBA: all-time and 10-time season scoring champions. The surpassing probabilities for each record were measured using EVT. We find that the surpassing probability of the NBA all-time scoring champion is more than eight times higher than the surpassing probability of the NBA 10-time season scoring champion, indicating that the latter is the more unlikely record.		[Zhang, Zhuojing] Jianghan Univ, Sch Business, Wuhan, Peoples R China; [Chen, Tao] Univ Waterloo, Dept Econ, Waterloo, ON, Canada; [Chen, Tao] Univ Waterloo, Big Data Res Lab, Waterloo, ON, Canada; [Chen, Tao] Univ Waterloo, Dept Econ, Waterloo, ON, Canada								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001656285800001	30	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Driller, Matthew; Holt, Ana; Carmichael, Mikaeli; Payne, Leslie; Stutter, Luke								Perceptual gains, performance pains? Massage gun use during warm-up enhances perceived readiness without performance benefits								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541251408295				2026	Handheld massage guns are widely used by athletes, however, evidence for their acute effects during warm-up remains limited. Fifty-nine recreational athletes (21.6 +/- 2.4 years; 24 female, 35 male) were randomly assigned to a massage gun group (GUN; n = 30) or control group (CON; n = 29). All participants completed a standardised dynamic warm-up followed by baseline testing of countermovement jumps (CMJ), 10/5 repeated jump test, knee-to-wall ankle mobility, and 20 m sprints. Perceptual measures (fatigue, muscle soreness, readiness to perform) were also recorded. The GUN group then completed a 12-min percussive massage protocol while the CON group rested quietly, before all tests were repeated. Linear mixed models and Hedges' g effects are reported for the Condition x Time interactions. Massage gun use was associated with greater readiness to perform compared with CON (p < 0.05, g = 0.64). No differences were observed for perceived fatigue (p > 0.05). Despite no differences in CMJ height (p > 0.05), some CMJ metrics were impaired in the GUN group (p < 0.05), with reduced concentric force (g = -0.76), longer contraction time (g = 0.60), and lower RSI-modified (g = --0.63), potentially due to greater countermovement depth (p < 0.05, g = -0.56). No significant Condition x Time interactions were found for the 10/5 repeated jump test, knee-to-wall mobility or sprint performance (p > 0.05). Massage gun use during warm-up enhanced perceptual readiness to perform, but impaired several markers of CMJ performance, with no benefits observed for mobility or sprinting.		[Driller, Matthew; Holt, Ana; Carmichael, Mikaeli; Payne, Leslie; Stutter, Luke] La Trobe Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Human Serv & Sport, Sport Performance & Nutr Res Grp, Melbourne, Australia; [Driller, Matthew] La Trobe Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Human Serv & Sport, Sport Performance & Nutr Res Grp, Melbourne, Australia								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001656273900001	44	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Mangan, Kevin; Henley, Stefan; Spriggs, Nicole; Hamlin, Michael J.; Kabaliuk, Natalia; Stitt, Danyon; Stilwell, George; Swale, Annette; Xu, Congyu; Masters, Rich S. W.; Anderson, Tim; Melzer, Tracy R.; Basu, Arindam; Maitland, Nick; Niao, Stacey; Snell, Deborah; Clark, Adrian; Moylett, Sinead; Johnstone, Blair; Alexander, Keith; Draper, Nick								Incidence, magnitude & sport-specific factors of rugby tackles from different directions in youth rugby								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541251394457				2026	Rugby tackles can cause head acceleration events (HAEs) which may acutely and chronically affect brain health. This study aimed to investigate the varying proportions, impact forces and rugby-specific factors of tackles from different directions relative to the ball carrier which may illuminate strategies to reduce injury and health risks. Boys from four youth boys' teams in New Zealand (one U13 club: n = 19 players, 13 matches; two U16 club: n = 41, mean of 31.5 matches; one U16 representative: n = 26, 8 matches) wore instrumented mouthguards and all matches were videoed and analyzed to verify the collisions resulting in a tackle and code them based on rugby-specific and biomechanical factors (anticipation, falling, head position, face position). Of the 2539 tackles resulting in HAEs, most were front-on (56-64%). Tackle direction had no significant effect on either mean peak linear or rotational acceleration, however significantly fewer tackles from the rear resulted in impacts that would trigger an elite rugby head injury assessment than tackles from the front and side. The older and more skilled players more often had correct head positioning in front and side-on tackles, whereas almost none of the tackles from the rear had incorrect head positioning. Additional training focus should be given to tackles from the side and rear with younger players as they have poorer anticipation in these directions often resulting in higher HAE magnitude. Face up tackling seems to be best for reducing impact forces in tackles from behind, while face down tackling appears to be safest for front-on tackles.		[Mangan, Kevin; Henley, Stefan; Basu, Arindam; Maitland, Nick; Niao, Stacey; Draper, Nick] Univ Canterbury, Fac Hlth, Private Bag 4800, Christchurch 8140, New Zealand; [Henley, Stefan] Calif State Univ Fullerton, Coll Commun, Fullerton, CA USA; [Spriggs, Nicole; Hamlin, Michael J.] Lincoln Univ, Dept Tourism Sport & Soc, Lincoln, New Zealand; [Spriggs, Nicole] Univ Greenwich, London, England; [Kabaliuk, Natalia; Stitt, Danyon; Stilwell, George; Swale, Annette; Xu, Congyu; Alexander, Keith] Univ Canterbury, Dept Mech Engn, Christchurch, New Zealand; [Masters, Rich S. W.] Univ Waikato, Sch Sport & Human Movement, Hamilton, New Zealand; [Anderson, Tim] Univ Otago, Dept Med, Christchurch, New Zealand; [Anderson, Tim; Melzer, Tracy R.] New Zealand Brain Res Inst, Christchurch, New Zealand; [Melzer, Tracy R.] Univ Canterbury, Sch Psychol Speech & Hearing, Christchurch, New Zealand; [Melzer, Tracy R.] Pacific Radiol Canterbury, Christchurch, New Zealand; [Snell, Deborah] Univ Otago, Dept Orthopaed Surg & Musculoskeletal Med, Christchurch, New Zealand; [Clark, Adrian] Univ Canterbury, Sch Prod Design, Christchurch, New Zealand; [Moylett, Sinead] Univ Canterbury, Sch Math & Stat, Christchurch, New Zealand; [Johnstone, Blair] Univ Canterbury, UC Maori, Christchurch, New Zealand; [Mangan, Kevin] Univ Canterbury, Fac Hlth, Private Bag 4800, Christchurch 8140, New Zealand								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001656246700001	82	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Du, Songjian; Li, Hongxin; Lyu, Dongye; Yan, Jin								How does ski tourism experience affect consumption behavior? Insights from an empirical study in China								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				27	3			542	562		10.1108/IJSMS-07-2025-0333			JUL 17 2026	2026	PurposeThe ski tourism industry in China is undergoing rapid development, prompting an increasing need to understand how experience effects consumption behavior (CB). Based on the stimulus-organism-response (S-O-R) theoretical framework, this study constructs an integrative model to examine how participation motivation (PM) generates ski tourism experience by influencing tourism satisfaction (TS)/leisure satisfaction (LS), thereby affecting CB.Design/methodology/approachA structured survey was administered to 548 ski tourists across selected resorts in China, and the proposed relationships were empirically tested using structural equation modeling (SEM).FindingsThe findings reveal that PM exerts a direct positive effect on CB, with self-development (SD) identified as the most influential motivational dimension. Moreover, PM indirectly impacts CB through TS, where entertainment-orientation (EO) and resultant satisfaction emerge as critical mediators. In parallel, the analysis confirms an additional indirect pathway via LS, highlighting the mediating roles of social-orientation (SO), entertainment-orientation (EO) and social satisfaction (SS). Collectively, these results validate the S-O-R paradigm in the context of ski tourism: PM (stimulus) significantly influences TS and LS (organism), which in turn drive CB (response).Research limitations/implicationsFirst, Although data collection during the peak ski season at a major resort allowed us to capture visitors' immediate experiential states, the identified relationships should be regarded as theoretically informed associations rather than definitive causal effects. Future research employing longitudinal, cross-lagged, or experimental designs is needed to rigorously verify temporal ordering and underlying mechanisms. Second, the measurement of participation motivation (PM) was limited to four core dimensions: entertainment, health, skill enhancement and social interaction. This excludes other relevant motivators such as family obligations, adventure-seeking or self-expression. Subsequent studies should conceptualize PM as a multidimensional construct to better elucidate its complex interplay with tourist satisfaction and consumption patterns. Third, although this study captures the psychological mechanisms underlying ski tourism experience, it does not directly measure the behavioral or situational components of experiential encounters. Future studies could integrate both behavioral metrics (e.g. duration, activity logs and GPS trajectories) and contextual information (e.g. social interaction patterns and environmental features) to complement the psychological constructs used here. Finally, discrete emotion scales (e.g. the destination emotion scale) can provide finer-grained measurement of specific affective states. Future research should incorporate such scales to disentangle the distinct effects of discrete emotions (e.g. love, joy and surprise) from general satisfaction.Practical implicationsClarify how understanding participation motivation and its impact on satisfaction can guide ski resorts to design more targeted services, reduce product uniformity and foster consumer loyalty in a rapidly evolving market.Social implicationsClarify how ski tourism experience affects consumption behavior, provide reference for ski resorts to implement precision marketing and service innovation, and thus promote the broader development of the global ice and snow economy. Originality/valueThe study not only provides theoretical insights into ski tourism experience and consumption behavior, but also offers practical implications for destination marketing strategies. These contributions are anticipated to inform more targeted promotional efforts and support the sustainable growth of the global ski tourism industry.		[Du, Songjian; Yan, Jin] Soochow Univ, Sch Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Suzhou, Peoples R China; [Li, Hongxin] Zhengzhou Univ Light Ind, Coll Phys Educ, Zhengzhou, Peoples R China; [Lyu, Dongye] Hong Kong Univ Sci & Technol, Coll Educ Sci, Guangzhou Campus, Guangzhou, Peoples R China; [Yan, Jin] Soochow Univ, Sch Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Suzhou, Peoples R China								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001653345300001	84	Article; Article		
J	Zeff, Samuel; Martini, Douglas N.; Hamill, Joseph; Van Emmerik, Richard								Head stability and coordination variability during locomotion under different visual task constraints as a function of repetitive head impact exposure								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				25	6			872	893		10.1080/14763141.2025.2593312			JUN 3 2026	2026	Repetitive head impact exposure in contact sports such as ice hockey has been shown to modify motor performance which could impact the control of head movement and result in perceptual deficits. However, how such exposure influences the coordination dynamics underlying head stability control, and thus visual perception, is not well understood. The purpose of this study was to assess whether contact sport participation affects coordination variability and stability during locomotion as a function of different levels of visual task constraints. Ice hockey (contact) and baseball (noncontact) athletes completed treadmill walking tasks with varying levels of visual task constraints. Head and trunk local dynamic stability and whole-body coordination variability were assessed at preferred and fast speeds with and without a dynamic visual acuity task. While no group differences in dynamic visual acuity were present, contact athletes displayed reduced vertical head local dynamic stability compared to non-contact athletes while walking at a fast speed without the visual task. Contact athletes also displayed lower whole-body coordination variability compared to noncontact athletes. These findings suggest that contact sport participation may lead to changes in head stability control and lower levels of coordination variability, suggestive of reductions in movement flexibility and adaptability.		[Zeff, Samuel] Calif State Univ Long Beach, Dept Kinesiol, Long Beach, CA 90840 USA; [Zeff, Samuel; Martini, Douglas N.; Hamill, Joseph; Van Emmerik, Richard] Univ Massachusetts Amherst, Dept Kinesiol, Amherst, MA 01003 USA; [Zeff, Samuel] Calif State Univ Long Beach, Dept Kinesiol, Long Beach, CA 90840 USA; [Zeff, Samuel] Univ Massachusetts Amherst, Dept Kinesiol, Amherst, MA 01003 USA								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001654237400001	70	Article; Article		
J	Choi, Kyu Ha; Seo, Yeongjun; Kim, Minhong								The impact of NHL player participation in Olympic ice hockey on viewership intentions: a latent profile analysis								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				27	3			583	603		10.1108/IJSMS-07-2025-0335			JUL 17 2026	2026	PurposeThis study identified distinct motivational profiles among prospective viewers based on their interest in watching Winter Olympic ice hockey and examined how these profiles influence viewership intention differentially depending on National Hockey League (NHL) player participation.Design/methodology/approachGuided by uses and gratifications theory, the study employed a person-centered approach using a latent profile analysis among 494 adults from the United States.FindingsThree distinct viewer profiles (low interest [LI], moderate interest [MI] and high interest [HI]) emerged based on theoretically relevant motivational factors (i.e. interest in the Winter Olympics, interest in ice hockey and athlete competence) that influence Winter Olympic ice hockey viewership intentions. Viewership intention significantly differed between profiles, increasing progressively in accordance with the level of interest. Within-profile analyses revealed that NHL player participation significantly influenced viewership intentions only among individuals in the HI group. In contrast, the LI and MI profiles highlighted key boundary conditions that limit the influence of star athletes on viewership behavior.Originality/valueThe results underscore the need for multi-dimensional theoretical frameworks that account for the complexity of viewer motivations in sport media contexts. Varying effects of NHL player participation across audience profiles suggest incorporating viewer heterogeneity into predictive models of media consumption. While the star power and competitive excellence of elite athletes remain effective, broader strategic efforts should also focus on fostering general interest in the sport of ice hockey, particularly the NHL, to expand the pool of HI group viewers.		[Choi, Kyu Ha] SUNY Coll Oneonta, Dept Sport & Exercise Sci, Oneonta, NY USA; [Seo, Yeongjun] Univ North Carolina Greensboro, Dept Kinesiol, Greensboro, NC 27412 USA; [Kim, Minhong] Univ North Texas, Dept Kinesiol Hlth Promot & Recreat, Denton, TX USA; [Seo, Yeongjun] Univ North Carolina Greensboro, Dept Kinesiol, Greensboro, NC 27412 USA								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001652264000001	97	Article; Article		
J	Hallmann, Kirstin; Wittmann, Felix; Schumann, Johanna; Schmidt, Lukas; Breuer, Christoph; Roth, Ralf								From snow-curious explorers to die-hard snow devotees: segmenting winter sport tourists								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP											10.1108/IJSMS-07-2025-0304				2026	PurposeThis study aims to segment winter sport tourists based on involvement variables and create winter sport personas characterised by additional descriptor variables rooted in socio-economics and behavioural variables.Design/methodology/approachThis study employs a quantitative research paradigm using cross-sectional data derived from an online survey (n = 2,500). Using the four stages of involvement of the psychological continuum model (PCM), four distinct involvement segments were created and tested with various descriptor variables using a multinomial probit regression.FindingsSegmentation results revealed four unique winter sport personas: (1) snow-curious explorers, (2) laid-back adventurers, (3) powder chasers and (4) snow devotees. Each segment differed in its involvement profile and was characterised by specific socio-demographic attributes, behavioural patterns, and expenditure levels. The data suggested that higher levels of involvement are associated with participation in a wider range of winter sports and increased spending across various categories.Originality/valueInvolvement was used as the primary segmentation criterion, encompassing hedonic, symbolic and centrality dimensions. In contrast to previous approaches, which tested for group differences, a probit regression analysis revealed determinants of consumer segment membership. Finally, the PCM was utilised in a multi-sport setting for the first time.		[Hallmann, Kirstin; Wittmann, Felix; Breuer, Christoph] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Sport Econ & Sport Management, Cologne, Germany; [Schumann, Johanna; Schmidt, Lukas; Roth, Ralf] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Outdoor Sports & Environm Sci, Cologne, Germany; [Hallmann, Kirstin] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Sport Econ & Sport Management, Cologne, Germany								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001652263900001	61	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Almeida, Carlos Humberto; Paixao, Paulo; Jorge, Jose Antonio; Vargas, Pedro; Goncalves, Ricardo; Batalau, Rui								Impact of Situational Variables on Goal-Scoring Offensive Sequences in the 2022 FIFA World Cup								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				100				237	257		10.5114/jhk/202563			JAN 2026	2026	Research in match performance analysis has progressed markedly, yet detailed studies on technical-tactical indicators, notably those addressing multiple situational variables, remain sparse. To narrow this literature gap, this study aimed to examine the impact of four situational variables (competition stage, match period, match status, and team quality) on key performance indicators (KPIs) in goal-scoring sequences during the 2022 FIFA World Cup. All 168 goalscoring sequences from regular time were evaluated post-event using the Offensive Sequences Characterisation System, which included simple and composite indicators. Another three categorical variables (ball recovery type, ball recovery location, and team possession type) were also coded. To evaluate the effects of situational variables, Mann-Whitney U and Kruskal-Wallis tests were applied to KPIs, whilst Chi-square and Multinomial Logistic Regression were conducted for categorical variables. The analysis revealed that while competition stage, match period, and match status did not significantly affect KPIs related to build-up and progression, they noticeably influenced defensive-to-offensive transitions, particularly during mid-game (31-60 min) and when teams were losing. In such scenarios, teams regained possession higher up the pitch, employing more aggressive defensive strategies. Team quality emerged as the most decisive factor, with better-ranked teams displaying longer, more structured attacks and faster ball interventions to score. The findings suggest that success in elite soccer is driven not only by team quality, but also by adaptability to match-specific conditions. Integrating these situational factors into both training and match preparation is vital to developing a team's adaptability to the ever-evolving contextual dynamics of elite soccer.		[Almeida, Carlos Humberto; Paixao, Paulo; Jorge, Jose Antonio; Vargas, Pedro; Goncalves, Ricardo; Batalau, Rui] Manuel Teixeira Gomes Higher Educ Inst ISMAT, Dept Psychol & Phys Educ, Res Grp Soccer & Futsal GIFut, Portimao, Portugal; [Almeida, Carlos Humberto; Batalau, Rui] Lusofona Univ UL, Res Ctr Sport Phys Educ Exercise & Hlth CIDEFES, Lisbon, Portugal; [Paixao, Paulo] Polytech Inst Beja, Sch Educ, Dept Arts Humanities & Sport, Beja, Portugal; [Paixao, Paulo] Polytech Inst Beja, SPRINT Sport Phys Act & Hlth Res & INnovat Ctr, Beja, Portugal; [Vargas, Pedro] Piaget Inst, Jean Piaget Algarve Sch Hlth, Silves, Portugal; [Almeida, Carlos Humberto] Manuel Teixeira Gomes Higher Educ Inst ISMAT, Dept Psychol & Phys Educ, Res Grp Soccer & Futsal GIFut, Portimao, Portugal; [Almeida, Carlos Humberto] Lusofona Univ UL, Res Ctr Sport Phys Educ Exercise & Hlth CIDEFES, Lisbon, Portugal								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:001690338300017	41	Article; Article		
J	Jamkrajang, Parunchaya; Suwanmana, Sarit; Boonkerd, Chuanpis; Verheul, Jasper								Rotational vs. Straight Landings: Exploring Task-Specific Responses to Inform ACL-Injury Risk Screening								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				100				63	73		10.5114/jhk/200765			JAN 2026	2026	Rotational landing tasks have the potential to support screening methods for anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) specific injury risk. However, alterations in lower-limb kinematics and kinetics during rotational landings, and sexspecific responses, are currently largely unexplored. This study, therefore, explored the differences in lower-limb kinematic and kinetic characteristics between rotational and straight landings, and the sex-specific responses to rotational landings. Thirty-six healthy team-sport athletes (eighteen males and eighteen females) performed straight bilateral and unilateral landings, and rotational (clockwise and counterclockwise) landings, from a box while lower-limb kinematics and ground reaction forces (GRFs) were recorded. Rotational landings were found to emphasise (p < 0.001) hip flexion angles at initial contact and peak vertical GRF. Differences between males and females (p < 0.001) were identified during rotational landings (but not straight landings) for peak ankle dorsiflexion and time to peak vertical GRF, with significant task-sex interactions. Compared to the bilateral landing, unilateral tasks affected the magnitude or highlighted sex-specific differences for nine and one biomechanical characteristics, respectively. Together, these outcomes provide further insights into lower-limb kinematic and kinetic responses to rotational landings. These findings offer additional support for the use of rotational, as well as unilateral elements, for ACL-injury risk screening practice.		[Jamkrajang, Parunchaya; Suwanmana, Sarit] Mahidol Univ, Coll Sports Sci & Technol, Nakhon Pathom, Thailand; [Boonkerd, Chuanpis] Thammasat Univ, Fac Allied Hlth Sci, Dept Phys Therapy, Pathum Thani, Thailand; [Verheul, Jasper] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Cardiff Sch Sport & Hlth Sci, Cardiff, England; [Verheul, Jasper] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Cardiff Sch Sport & Hlth Sci, Cardiff, England								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001690338300006	38	Article; Article		
J	Zadnik, Uros; Erculj, Frane; Stirn, Igor								Structural Analysis of Assists in Top Men`s Basketball Teams								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				100				207	218		10.5114/jhk/201220			JAN 2026	2026	In basketball, an assist is defined as a pass that leads directly to a teammate scoring. Most studies to date have only considered assists as a statistical variable. We decided to take a closer look at the structure of assists using a sample of the top 16 European national teams participating in the 2022 European Championship. We used Synergy Sports technology to collect the data. In a total of 16 matches, 192 players made 640 assists. The data showed that point guards made 40.5% of all assists, while tall players received the most. Additionally, 57.3% of assists were given from the area above the free throw line and 24.3% from the paint. Assists on the move or off the dribble outnumbered assists while standing. Only slightly more than half (53.8%) of the assists were made with both hands, while there were clear differences between air and bounce passes (80.6% compared to 19.4%). The direct involvement of a third player in scoring a basket after an assist was only 12.5%. Surprisingly, winning teams made on average only one more assist than losing teams, which is probably due to the great equality of the competing teams.		[Zadnik, Uros; Erculj, Frane; Stirn, Igor] Univ Ljubljana, Fac Sport, Ljubljana, Slovenia; [Stirn, Igor] Univ Ljubljana, Fac Sport, Ljubljana, Slovenia								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001690338300015	26	Article; Article		
J	Haghighi, Amir Hossein; Ammarlou, Farshid; Marefati, Hamid; Shahrabadi, Hadi; Claudino, Joao Gustavo; Clemente, Filipe Manuel; Coswig, Victor; Souza, Daniel; Gentil, Paulo								The Impact of a High-Intensity Functional Training Program on Athletic Performance of Male Amateur Soccer Players: A Randomized Controlled Study								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				100				165	177		10.5114/jhk/202312			JAN 2026	2026	High-Intensity Functional Training (HIFT) is a popular training modality that aims to improve multiple physical fitness and performance components. This study aimed to examine the effects of HIFT on athletic performance of male amateur soccer players. This randomized controlled study was conducted over a six-week period. Athletes were randomly enrolled into HIFT (n = 12) and control (CON, n = 12) groups. The HIFT group replaced part of the specific training with three weekly sessions of HIFT, whereas the CON group participated only in regular soccer training. Before and after the intervention, athletes were assessed for the 20-m sprint (s), bench press strength (kg), squat strength (kg), average anaerobic power (w), the fatigue index (w/s), the change-of-direction sprint (s), VO2max (ml/kg/min), soccer specific dribbling track test travel distance (m), and soccer dribble sprint skill (s). The HIFT group showed greater (p <= 0.001-0.018, pr 2 = 0.229-0.584) improvements when compared to the CON group, for the 20-m sprint, bench press, and squat strength, fatigue index, VO2max, and soccer specific dribbling track test traveled distance. The average anaerobic power approached significance (p = 0.051, pr 2 = 0.162), but was not significantly different between the groups. HIFT may replace part of regular soccer training to improve athletic performance in amateur soccer players.		[Haghighi, Amir Hossein; Ammarlou, Farshid; Marefati, Hamid; Shahrabadi, Hadi] Hakim Sabzevari Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Exercise Physiol, Sabzevar, Iran; [Claudino, Joao Gustavo] Univ Campinas UNICAMP, Sch Appl Sci FCA, Sports Sci, Limeira, SP, Brazil; [Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, Dept Biomech & Sport Engn, Gdansk, Poland; [Coswig, Victor] Univ Fed Ceara, Inst Phys Educ & Sports, Fortaleza, Brazil; [Souza, Daniel; Gentil, Paulo] Univ Fed Goias, Coll Phys Educ & Dance, Goiania, Brazil; [Haghighi, Amir Hossein] Hakim Sabzevari Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Exercise Physiol, Sabzevar, Iran								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001690338300012	42	Article; Article		
J	Kosti, Christina; Tsoukos, Athanasios; Pelekis, Iakovos; Paschalis, Vassilis; Terzis, Gerasimos; Bogdanis, Gregory C.								Isokinetic vs. Hand-Held Dynamometry for Assessing Knee Flexor and Extensor Strength in Athletes: Evaluating a Low-Cost Alternative across the Range of Motion								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				100				51	62		10.5114/jhk/210346			JAN 2026	2026	We explored whether hand-held dynamometry (HHD) could serve as a low-cost, portable alternative for assessing knee flexion and extension strength across the full range of motion. Twelve healthy athletes (7 men, 5 women; aged 21.4-28.5 years) performed maximal concentric (60 degrees/s) and isometric flexion-extension efforts on an isokinetic dynamometer in prone and seated positions. On two separate occasions, peak extension and flexion torque were measured at six knee angles, and values obtained using HHD and isokinetic dynamometry (ISD) were compared at corresponding angles. HHD data demonstrated high reliability at all angles for knee flexion and extension (ICC = 0.812-0.971, p < 0.001). Knee extension torque was similar in HHD and prone ISD isometric measurements at all angles (p > 0.38). Knee flexion torque was similar in HHD and seated ISD isometric measurements at all angles (p >= 0.48). The conventional hamstring to quadriceps (H/Q) ratio was similar in HHD and ISD in the seated position for both concentric and isometric measurements (56 +/- 11%, 55 +/- 8% and 51 +/- 10%, respectively, p > 0.792). Angle-specific H/Q ratios from HHD were similar to those obtained by all modes of testing at all knee angles (p > 0.70), except for the knee angle of 10o, which was the position where the knee was almost extended. The highest H/Q ratios were observed at the knee angles of 10o and 30o (p < 0.001). HHD is valid and reliable for assessing knee strength, yielding results comparable to ISD across the range of motion of the knee joint. The findings also emphasize the importance of considering angle-specific H/Q ratios.		[Kosti, Christina; Tsoukos, Athanasios; Paschalis, Vassilis; Terzis, Gerasimos; Bogdanis, Gregory C.] Natl & Kapodistrian Univ Athens, Sch PE & Sport Sci, Athens, Greece; [Pelekis, Iakovos] Democritus Univ Thrace, Sch PE & Sport Sci, Thrace, Greece; [Bogdanis, Gregory C.] Natl & Kapodistrian Univ Athens, Sch PE & Sport Sci, Athens, Greece								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:001690338300005	42	Article; Article		
J	Prieto-Gonzalez, Pablo; Martin, Victor; Marcelino, Rui; Sal-de-Rellan, Alejandro								Are Counterattacks More Effective than Positional Attacks in Soccer? A Comparative Analysis of Influencing Factors								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				100				191	205		10.5114/jhk/202435			JAN 2026	2026	This study aimed to: (1) compare the efficiency of positional attacks and counterattacks in La Liga, the Premier League, and Serie A, considering team rankings (top, intermediate, and bottom tiers); and (2) identify key factors that influenced the success of both types of attack. A quantitative, observational study adhering to STROBE guidelines was conducted. Data from five seasons (2017-2022) were collected from INSTAT, covering 5,700 matches across the three selected leagues. The analysis included 84 teams. Of the 115 team variables available, 35 independent and two dependent variables-efficiency in positional attacks and counterattacks-were selected. These variables included team performance metrics and tactical indicators. Counterattacks were more efficient than positional attacks across the three leagues, and top teams performed better than intermediate and bottom teams. Serie A showed the highest efficiency. In La Liga and the Premier League, positional attack efficiency was linked to right flank attacks, while counterattacks relied on central-zone efficiency. Serie A showed similar patterns, with the right flank contributing most to positional attack efficiency and central-zone efficiency being the strongest predictor of counterattack efficiency. The superiority of counterattacks over positional attacks underscores the importance of tactical precision and situational execution. Top teams excelled in both strategies, emphasizing the need for efficiency. The findings highlight the significance of adapting strategies to each league's unique trends. Coaches can leverage these insights to refine their approach, focusing on fast transitions, possession play, and wing play to enhance attacking efficiency and overall team performance.		[Prieto-Gonzalez, Pablo] Prince Sultan Univ, Coll Humanities & Sci, Sport Sci & Diagnost Res Grp, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia; [Martin, Victor] Univ Isabel I Castilla, Fac Hlth Sci, Burgos, Spain; [Marcelino, Rui] Elite Res Community, CIDESD, Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev, Maia, Portugal; [Marcelino, Rui] Univ Maia, Sport Sci Dept, Maia, Portugal; [Marcelino, Rui] Portuguese Football Federat, FPF Acad, Oeiras, Portugal; [Sal-de-Rellan, Alejandro] Univ Europea Madrid, Fac Law Educ & Humanities, Dept Educ & Educ Innovat, Madrid, Spain; [Prieto-Gonzalez, Pablo] Prince Sultan Univ, Coll Humanities & Sci, Sport Sci & Diagnost Res Grp, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:001690338300014	42	Article; Article		
J	Hsu, Jo-Ting; Chen, Yin-Hua								Match Performance Analysis of Women's Épée in the 2017-2019 World Fencing Championships								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				100				151	164		10.5114/jhk/203422			JAN 2026	2026	& Eacute;p & eacute;e preserves the original dueling nature of fencing and is the only discipline that allows double hits. However, there is still limited understanding of how specific techniques are used in different contexts, such as bout rounds, piste areas, and score statuses (leading, tied, or trailing). To address this gap, this study analyzed the performance of elite female & eacute;p & eacute;e fencers during the top 16 to final bouts of the 2017-2019 world championships using notational analysis of videos from the International Fencing Federation's official YouTube channel. This dataset included 1,840 scoring events across 45 matches, involving 38 fencers. Three-or two-way mixed-design ANOVAs, as well as two-way repeated measures ANOVAs were conducted to investigate the effects of these factors and their interactions for both winners and losers. Results highlighted the second round as a crucial scoring phase. Winners strategically focused on achieving more single hits (than double hits), attacking in the first two rounds and counterattacking in the third. When leading, winners often lured their opponent toward their side of the piste to maintain control, while becoming more aggressive-advancing into the central or even the middle area of the opponent's side to score with attacks-when temporarily tied or trailing. In contrast, losers frequently scored in the central and middle areas of both sides. When temporarily leading, they displayed no clear preference for specific techniques or areas of the piste. These findings provide valuable insights for coaches to design more effective training sessions and offer targeted feedback during competitions to enhance fencers' performance.		[Hsu, Jo-Ting; Chen, Yin-Hua] Natl Taiwan Sport Univ, Grad Inst Athlet & Coaching Sci, Taoyuan, Taiwan; [Chen, Yin-Hua] Natl Taiwan Sport Univ, Grad Inst Athlet & Coaching Sci, Taoyuan, Taiwan								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:001690338300011	20	Article; Article		
J	Guo, Jinyuan; Li, Yujia; Huang, Qiuchen; Rong, Xueqin; Li, Pengcui								Differences in calf-raise exercise and short-foot exercise on feedforward and feedback activation in healthy young								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				77				104	112		10.1016/j.ptsp.2025.11.004			JAN 2026	2026	Objectives: To compare the effects of short-foot exercise (SFE) and calf-raise exercise (CRE) on feedforward and feedback mechanisms of dynamic postural control in healthy young adults. Design: Randomized controlled trial with assessments pre-training (PRE), immediately post-training (POST1), and after 4 weeks (POST2). Participants performed SFE or CRE (3 x 15 reps, 3-4 times/week for 4 weeks). Setting: Laboratory-based balance assessment using instrumented posturography. Participants: 50 healthy adults (23.9 +/- 1.92 years; 23 males) randomly assigned to SFE or CRE groups; 46 completed the study. Main outcome measures: Sit-to-stand test (Weight Transfer, Rising Index, Sway Velocity), Reaction Time test (Premotor Time, Motor Time), Adaptation Test (toes-up and toes-down balance scores). Results: Both groups showed improved postural stability: reduced Sway Velocity (p < 0.05), shorter Pre-motor and Motor Times (p < 0.05), and better Adaptation Test scores (p < 0.05). SFE led to greater long-term improvement in Rising Index (p < 0.05) and toes-up adaptation, indicating enhanced feedforward control and center of gravity transfer. Conclusions: Both exercises improve dynamic balance, but SFE offers superior long-term benefits in feedforward control and stability against sagittal plane perturbations.		[Guo, Jinyuan] Kyoto Univ, Grad Sch Med, Human Hlth Sci, Kyoto, Japan; [Li, Yujia; Li, Pengcui] Shanxi Med Univ, Hosp 2, Dept Orthoped, Shanxi Key Lab Bone & Soft Tissue Injury Repair, Taiyuan 030001, Shanxi, Peoples R China; [Huang, Qiuchen] Capital Med Univ, Sch Rehabil Med, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Huang, Qiuchen] China Rehabil Res Ctr, Dept Phys Therapy, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Rong, Xueqin] Sanya Cent Hosp, Peoples Hosp Hainan Prov 3, Dept Pain Med, Sanya, Hainan, Peoples R China; [Li, Pengcui] Shanxi Med Univ, Hosp 2, Dept Orthoped, Shanxi Key Lab Bone & Soft Tissue Injury Repair, Taiyuan 030001, Shanxi, Peoples R China; [Rong, Xueqin] Sanya Cent Hosp, Peoples Hosp Hainan Prov 3, Dept Pain Med, Sanya, Hainan, Peoples R China								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001654151400001	55	Article; Article		
J	Tassignon, Bruno; Dick, Emilie; Verschueren, Jo; Lathouwers, Elke; Ramponi, Carlo; Constantinou, Maria; Arend, Mati; Lepasalu, Laura; Hirvonen, Armi; Sihvonen, Sanna; Paasu-Hynynen, Sanna; Kapreli, Eleni; Tsokani, Aristi; Strimpakos, Nikolaos; Mendonca, Luciana De Michelis								Updating the 300 standards of the International Sports Physiotherapy Competencies and Standards from 11 countries in 2005 to 38 countries in 2025: An international Delphi study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				77				62	69		10.1016/j.ptsp.2025.12.001			JAN 2026	2026	Objectives: To update the 300 standards of the International Sports Physiotherapy Competencies and Standards document. Design: A three-round Delphi study. Setting: Online international survey. Participants: Sports physiotherapists (SPTs) with a national registration/licensure recognised by their national SPT member organisation, at least 5 years of professional experience in SPT and/or equivalent teaching or research experience, and direct involvement with athletes in treatment, prevention or research contexts. Maint outcome measures: Participants rated each of the original 300 standards on a three-point scale (Agree, Disagree, Unsure). Consensus was defined a priori as >= 80 % agreement. Results: A total of 197 SPTs representing 46 countries were invited; 143 participants from 38 countries completed Round 1 (72.6 % response rate), and 101 completed all three rounds (70.6 % of Round 1 participants). After three rounds, 296 (98.7 %) standards reached a consensus. Four standards did not reach a consensus; all pertained to the Professionalism and Management competency, specifically aspects of financial and organisational management (Behaviour 1, item 2; foundational knowledge standards 7A:3 and 7A:5; and action/intervention standard 7E:2). Conclusion: This Delphi study updated the 300 standards from the International Sports Physiotherapy Competencies and Standards with contributions from 11 countries in 2005 to 38 countries in 2025. Consensus on 296 of 300 standards affirms their continued global relevance. The four standards lacking consensus, all related to managerial roles.		[Tassignon, Bruno; Dick, Emilie; Verschueren, Jo; Lathouwers, Elke] Vrije Univ Brussel, Fac Phys Educ & Physiotherapy, Human Physiol & Sports Physiotherapy Res Grp, Brussels, Belgium; [Tassignon, Bruno] Hasselt Univ, Fac Rehabil Sci, REVAL Rehabil Res Ctr, Diepenbeek, Belgium; [Ramponi, Carlo] Kine Rehabil & Orthopaed Ctr, Treviso, Italy; [Constantinou, Maria] Southern Cross Univ, Fac Hlth, Phys Act Sport & Exercise Res Theme, Gold Coast, Qld, Australia; [Arend, Mati; Lepasalu, Laura] Univ Tartu, Inst Sport Sci & Physiotherapy, Fac Med, Tartu, Estonia; [Hirvonen, Armi; Sihvonen, Sanna; Paasu-Hynynen, Sanna] Jamk Univ Appl Sci, Sch Hlth & Social Studies, Jyvaskyla, Finland; [Kapreli, Eleni] Univ Thessaly, Fac Hlth Sci, Physiotherapy Dept, Clin Exercise Physiol & Rehabil Res Lab, Volos, Greece; [Tsokani, Aristi; Strimpakos, Nikolaos] Univ Thessaly, Fac Hlth Sci, Physiotherapy Dept, Hlth Assessment & Qual Life Res Lab, Volos, Greece; [Mendonca, Luciana De Michelis] Univ Fed Minas Gerais, Sch Phys Educ Phys Therapy & Occupat Therapy, Phys Therapy Dept, Belo Horizonte, Brazil; [Tassignon, Bruno] Hasselt Univ, Fac Rehabil Sci, REVAL Rehabil Res Ctr, Wetenschapspk 7, B-3590 Diepenbeek, Belgium								3							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001639644900001	37	Article; Article		
J	Colomer, Carmen M. E.; Newans, Timothy; McKune, Andrew J.; Serpell, Benjamin G.; Pyne, David B.								Applying collective tactical metrics in rugby union: A case study of spatial-temporal team-behaviour during scoring sequences								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	3			1663	1674		10.1177/17479541251407998			JUN 2026	2026	We introduced objective spatial-temporal metrics including centroid, stretch index, convex hull, and approximate entropy (ApEn) to analyse team behaviours during try-scoring events in rugby union. Data collected via 10 Hz global positioning system (GPS) technology during a competitive Super Rugby match were analysed across different field zones and phases of play. At the match level, there were no significant differences in team-level metrics between attack and defence. However, location specific analyses demonstrated higher defensive movement irregularity (higher ApEn) in the D22-40 (attack vs defence; 0.19 +/- 0.02 vs 0.27 +/- 0.02; mean +/- SD) and D40-50 (0.24 +/- 0.03 vs 0.30 +/- 0.02), indicating field-location specific irregularity and defensive instability. Conversely, attacking sequences in the D22-40 (14.3 +/- 1.1 m vs 13.0 +/- 0.8 m) and D40-50 (14.1 +/- 0.8 m vs 12.7 +/- 0.2 m) displayed greater spatial expansion (higher stretch index) associated with creating scoring opportunities. These preliminary findings indicate that spatial-temporal metrics can capture context-dependent team behaviours in rugby union, offering promising tools for tactical analysis. Given the limited dataset, further research with larger samples is necessary to validate and refine these approaches for practical coaching applications.		[Colomer, Carmen M. E.; McKune, Andrew J.; Serpell, Benjamin G.; Pyne, David B.] Univ Canberra, Res Inst Sport & Exercise, Canberra, ACT, Australia; [Colomer, Carmen M. E.] Brumbies Rugby, High Performance Unit, Canberra, ACT, Australia; [Newans, Timothy] Point Nine Four Consulting, Gold Coast, Qld, Australia; [McKune, Andrew J.] Univ KwaZulu Natal, Sch Hlth Sci, Discipline Biokinet Exercise & Leisure Sci, Durban, South Africa; [Serpell, Benjamin G.] High Performance Unit, Richmond Tigers Football Club, Richmond, Vic, Australia; [Colomer, Carmen M. E.] Univ Canberra, Brumbies Rugby, Bldg 29,Univ Dr, Bruce, ACT 2617, Australia								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001651596300001	37	Article; Article		
J	Yuan, Bo; Pan, Pengyu; Zhu, Jiaxuan; Ren, Dingmeng; Cui, Yixiong; Qin, Shenglei; Song, Honglin; Li, Yang; Liu, Tianbiao								Exploring the relationship between physical capacities and match running performance in elite U17 football players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541251403492				2025	This study investigated positional differences in physical capacities and match running performance, and explored how physical capacities influence match running metrics in elite U17 football players. Data were collected from 212 players across 12 teams and 23 competitive matches, classified into five positions: central defenders (CD), full backs (FB), central midfielders (CM), wingers (W), and central forwards (FW). All the players come from the same league level. Analysis using one-way ANOVA and multiple regression revealed significant positional distinctions. FW and CD showed the highest height and weight, while W were significantly shorter and lighter (p < 0.01). CD achieved the best countermovement jump scores, while W outperformed others in 30 m speed, agility, and the Yo-Yo Intermittent Recovery Test Level 1 (YYIR1), indicating superior speed and endurance. Conversely, FW had the lowest YYIR1 performance (p < 0.05). Match data showed CM covered the most total, mid-speed, and quick-speed running distances (p < 0.001), while W recorded the highest maximum speed, high-speed running, and sprint distances (p < 0.001). Regression analysis identified 30 m speed as the main predictor of high-speed running, sprint distance, and maximum speed (p < 0.05), while YYIR1 predicted running performance in worst-case scenarios (p < 0.05). Overall, the findings emphasize the importance of position-specific physical training, focusing on speed and agility for attacking players and endurance development for central midfielders and forwards.		[Yuan, Bo; Zhu, Jiaxuan; Song, Honglin; Li, Yang; Liu, Tianbiao] Beijing Normal Univ, Coll Phys Educ & Sport, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Pan, Pengyu] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Exercise Training & Sports Informat, Cologne, Germany; [Ren, Dingmeng; Qin, Shenglei] Beijing Sport Univ, China Football Coll, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Cui, Yixiong] Beijing Sport Univ, China Sports Big Data Ctr, Sch Sports Engn, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Liu, Tianbiao] Beijing Normal Univ, Coll Phys Educ & Sport, Beijing, Peoples R China								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001651885800001	47	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Hur, Chan Hyeon; Watanabe, Nicholas Masafumi; Soebbing, Brian; Yan, Grace								Economic impact of the Winter Olympics: examination of temporary housing prices								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				27	3			563	582		10.1108/IJSMS-07-2025-0345			JUL 17 2026	2026	PurposeThis study examines the net impact of the 2018 Winter Olympics on temporary housing prices in Gangneung, South Korea, from 2012 to 2023. Amid growing scrutiny of the Games' long-term economic sustainability, particularly in smaller, less urbanized regions, this study offers empirical evidence on localized housing market effects in a non-Western context and assesses the broader, often untested, economic and social benefits of the Olympics.Design/methodology/approachEmploying the synthetic control method, this study compares rental prices in Gangneung with rental prices in non-host cities nationwide exhibiting similar economic and housing characteristics.FindingsContrary to expectations of economic gains from hosting the Games, the findings indicate no significant increase in monthly rent prices in Gangneung relative to other cities. In fact, rental prices showed limited change during the Olympics and in the immediate years following, challenging the notion that hosting such mega-events generates positive fiscal returns.Originality/valueThe findings offer important insights into the discourse on the intangible benefits of winter sport mega-events and provide lessons for planning sustainable future initiatives. They suggest that substantial public investment in the Winter Olympics may fall short of expected social and financial returns, especially after staging the events, underscoring the need for careful economic impact assessments in less developed communities.		[Hur, Chan Hyeon] Florida Int Univ, Counseling Recreat & Sch Psychol, Miami, FL 33199 USA; [Watanabe, Nicholas Masafumi; Yan, Grace] Univ South Carolina, David & Nicole Tepper Dept Sport & Entertainment M, Columbia, SC USA; [Soebbing, Brian] Univ Alberta, Fac Kinesiol Sport & Recreat, Edmonton, AB, Canada; [Hur, Chan Hyeon] Florida Int Univ, Counseling Recreat & Sch Psychol, Miami, FL 33199 USA								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001650071000001	51	Article; Article		
J	Ilarri, David; Arroyo, Ruben; Lapresa, Daniel; Amatria, Mario; Arana, Javier								Observational analysis of effectiveness in the 2023-2024 Wimbledon finals (Djokovic vs Alcaraz) using decision trees								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541251406427				2025	This study is an example of the use of the decision tree analysis technique within the framework of observational methodology, for conducting match analysis in tennis; specifically, it analyses the effectiveness of technical-tactical performance between Novak Djokovic and Carlos Alcaraz in the two Wimbledon finals held in 2023 and 2024 (all sequences of play -serves and rallies- from both tournaments were analysed; n = 757). The ad hoc observation instrument designed for the study captures the technical-tactical behavior deployed during tennis gameplay in a diachronic manner. Data recording and coding were performed using LINCE software. Inter-observer reliability was calculated using Cohen's Kappa coefficient. Decision trees generated by different algorithms were compared, with the results obtained through the CRT and CHAID models selected for interpretation. The findings point out key aspects of effectiveness on grass courts for both Novak Djokovic and Carlos Alcaraz, namely: the serve emerges as a decisive factor; Alcaraz demonstrates higher effectiveness when serving to central areas, while Djokovic is more successful with wide serves; Djokovic shows difficulties when returning from open positions; short rallies favor the server; offensive play in the early phases of the point proves critical; and, the server's advantage decreases in rallies of two or more strokes.		[Ilarri, David; Lapresa, Daniel; Arana, Javier] Univ La Rioja, Dept Educ Sci, Logrono, Spain; [Arroyo, Ruben] Univ Burgos, Fac Educ, Dept Specif Didact, Burgos, Spain; [Amatria, Mario] Pontif Univ Salamanca, Fac Educ, Salamanca, Spain; [Lapresa, Daniel] Univ La Rioja, Dept Educ Sci, Edificio Vives C Luis de Ulloa s-n, Logrono 26004, La Rioja, Spain								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001650924900001	61	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Abran, Guillaume; Gramage, Kevin; Delvaux, Francois; Croisier, Jean-Louis; Schwartz, Cedric								Acute effect of running retraining interventions on low & high-frequency components of the impact signals								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2025.2607738				2025	Running-related injuries (RRIs) have been linked to high-frequency components of impact-related variables. The influence of running retraining interventions on low- (LoF) and high-frequency (HiF) components of impact-related variables remains unexplored. This study investigated the effects of different retraining strategies on LoF and HiF components of impact-related variables. Twenty-six habitual rearfoot runners completed four overground running conditions: no instructions (CON), forefoot strike (FOR), increased cadence by 10% (CAD), and a combination of both (CADFOR). Three-dimensional kinematics were recorded, while ground reaction forces were processed to separate LoF and HiF signals (10 Hz as cut-off value). Compared to CON, HiF impact peak was reduced in FOR (p <0.001, d = 2.0), CAD (p = 0.006, d = 0.6), and CADFOR (p <0.001, d = 2.3). HiF instantaneous vertical loading rate was significantly reduced only in FOR (p <0.001; d = 0.6) and CADFOR (p <0.001; d = 0.7). Notably, adopting a forefoot strike pattern reduced HiF components of impact-related variables nearly three times more than cadence increase alone. The combination of forefoot strike and increased cadence produced the largest reduction in HiF impact components, suggesting it may be the most effective retraining strategy for potentially lowering RRI risk.		[Abran, Guillaume; Gramage, Kevin; Delvaux, Francois; Croisier, Jean-Louis] Univ Liege, Dept Phys Act & Rehabil Sci, Liege, Belgium; [Schwartz, Cedric] LAM Mot Lab, Liege, Belgium; [Abran, Guillaume] Univ Liege, Dept Phys Act & Rehabil Sci, Liege, Belgium								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001650729100001	29	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Feng, Juan; Fernandez, Alejandro Rodriguez; Trybulski, Robert; Grzywacz, Tomasz; Sawicki, Piotr; Clemente, Filipe Manuel								Impact of Small-Sided Game Formats on Electromyographic Responses in College Students								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				24	4			729	738		10.52082/jssm.2025.729			DEC 2025	2025	This study examined the effects of three small-sided game (SSGs) formats -1v1, 3 3v3, and 6v6- on muscle activation and fatigue during balance and jump performance tasks in collegiate athletes. Sixty healthy university students were randomly assigned to three groups (n = 20 each) for a 5-day SSG training program on standardized artificial turf. Training duration and recovery intervals were controlled, with player number and pitch size as independent variables. Muscle activity was measured using surface electromyography (sEMG) from the rectus femoris (RF) and biceps femoris (BF) during both the double-leg stance (DLS) balance task and the countermovement vertical jump (CMJ) task. Muscle activation and neuromuscular fatigue were quantified using the root mean square (RMS) and median frequency (MF) of the sEMG signal. Across all formats, CMJ elicited greater activation and fatigue than DLS (p < 0.001). The 6v6 format produced the highest activation (CMJ-RMS: 0.055 +/- 0.012) and greatest fatigue (CMJ-MF: 62.5 +/- 5.3 Hz), significantly exceeding 1v1 (p < 0.01). The 3v3 format showed peak DLS-MF (78.2 +/- 6.7 Hz), higher than 1v1 (p=0.003), indicating optimal activation-fatigue balance. Temporally, 1v1 maintained higher DLS-MF on Days 1-3 (p < 0.05), reflecting short-term neuromuscular efficiency. RF activation was highest in 6v6 (p < 0.01), while BF fatigue resistance was greatest in 3v3 (p < 0.05). In conclusion, 6v6 maximizes activation and fatigue, 3v3 provides balanced activation-fatigue, and 1v1 yields early neural efficiency but greater long-term fatigue. Future research should investigate longitudinal adaptations, sport-specific applications, and the influence of SSG formats on injury risk.		[Feng, Juan; Grzywacz, Tomasz; Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, Gdansk, Poland; [Feng, Juan] Chaohu Univ, Chaohu, Peoples R China; [Fernandez, Alejandro Rodriguez] Univ Leon, Fac Phys Act & Sports Sci, Leon, Spain; [Fernandez, Alejandro Rodriguez] Inst Biomed IBIOMED, VALFIS Res Grp, Leon, Spain; [Trybulski, Robert] Upper Silesian Acad, Med Dept Wojciech Korfanty, Katowice, Poland; [Trybulski, Robert] Provita Zory Med Ctr, Zory, Poland; [Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, Gdansk, Poland								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:001561213700001	32	Article; Article		
J	Braunstein-Minkove, Jessica R.; Cianfrone, Beth A.								#Trending towards brand crisis management: the case of the Seattle Kraken and BookTok								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP											10.1108/IJSMS-04-2025-0183				2025	PurposeSport organizations' social media activity contributes to their brand equity; however, interactions can become a crisis if team engagement is deemed controversial, in opposition to their brand personality or negatively impacts financial/brand reputation. Therefore, a crisis communication strategy is paramount. This case study examines the NHL's Seattle Kraken's use of a social media trend (i.e. engagement with the hockey romance community on BookTok and related influencer) and the ensuing brand crisis, response and public perception.Design/methodology/approachA case study with a multi-phased qualitative analysis - (1) directed content analysis (framed by the Situational Crisis Communication Theory) of the brand crisis responses and (2) thematic analysis of public perception- was employed based on crisis response statements, mass media and social media accounts.FindingsThe crisis responses varied by stakeholder. The team followed Deny (Scapegoat, Blame), Diminish (Excuse) and Bolstering strategies, while the league used Deny. The athlete and his family used Bolstering (Victimage). Public perception was categorized into three themes (Passionate Proponents, Accountability Advocates, Consent Crusaders).Originality/valueThis study extends previous research by applying the SCCT to a sport crisis that occurred due to a sport organization's social media activity. More specifically, this work examines the impact of participating in controversial - trend-based - engagement strategies on social media (i.e. TikTok) on a team's brand due to both general engagement and the resulting actions and responses. The findings provide guidance to sport organizations actively participating in social media trends that may or may not align with their overarching brand.		[Braunstein-Minkove, Jessica R.] Towson Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Towson, MD 21252 USA; [Cianfrone, Beth A.] Georgia State Univ, Atlanta, GA USA; [Braunstein-Minkove, Jessica R.] Towson Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Towson, MD 21252 USA								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001642383900001	58	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Song, Hemin; Gao, Jiaxu; Fan, Songmei; Yang, Ruichen; Liu, Zi								The influence of immersion on revisit intention: empirical evidence from tourists at the Beijing Winter Olympic venue "Snow Ruyi"								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				27	3			522	541		10.1108/IJSMS-07-2025-0344			JUL 17 2026	2026	PurposeThe post-event utilization of the Winter Olympic legacy has been receiving increasing attention. As a symbolic venue of the Beijing 2022 Winter Olympics, "Snow Ruyi" provides a valuable case for exploring tourists' emotional and behavioral responses. This study aims to examine the effect of immersion on revisit intention through place attachment in the context of the "Snow Ruyi" ski jumping venue. It also investigates the differences among Generations X, Y and Z in these relationships.Design/methodology/approachWe collected survey data from 433 visitors to the "Snow Ruyi" ski jumping venue. The questionnaire measured immersion, place attachment and revisit intention using established scales. We used structural equation modeling in AMOS to test the proposed relationships. We also conducted multi-group analysis to explore generational differences.FindingsImmersion significantly enhances place attachment, which in turn positively influences revisit intention. Place attachment also mediates the relationship between immersion and revisit intention. Multi-group analysis showed no significant differences across Generations X, Y and Z in these relationships.Originality/valueThis study provides empirical evidence for the psychological mechanism underlying revisit intention in the Winter Olympic legacy context. It also shows that different generations respond similarly in their emotions and behaviors. These findings provide theoretical and practical insights for Winter Olympic legacy management in China and beyond.		[Song, Hemin; Gao, Jiaxu; Fan, Songmei; Yang, Ruichen] Beijing Sport Univ, Sch Management, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Song, Hemin] Beijing Winter Olymp Culture & Ice & Snow Sports D, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Liu, Zi] Shandong Management Univ, Coll Humanities, Jinan, Peoples R China; [Gao, Jiaxu] Beijing Sport Univ, Sch Management, Beijing, Peoples R China								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001642385200001	113	Article; Article		
J	Ji, Yulsoo; Lee, Seungjoo; McLeod, Christopher M.								Enhancing sport engagement through perceived athlete-coach fit: The mediating role of athlete satisfaction								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	3			1287	1298		10.1177/17479541251406259			JUN 2026	2026	Enhancing athletes' sport engagement is critically important, as it plays a central role in their development and performance. Drawing on the Person-Environment Fit theory, this study investigates how athlete-coach fit affects sport engagement among elite athletes, with athlete satisfaction serving as a mediating mechanism. To investigate this relationship, 180 elite athletes (female, 74; 41%) registered with the Korean Sport & Olympic Committee were recruited. Data were analyzed using Hayes' PROCESS macro Model 4 in SPSS 25.0. Results showed that athlete-coach fit positively predicted both athlete satisfaction and sport engagement, and that athlete satisfaction, in turn, predicted sport engagement. Moreover, athlete satisfaction significantly mediated the relationship between athlete-coach fit and sport engagement. These findings highlight the critical role of athlete-coach fit in fostering athlete satisfaction and enhancing sport engagement. They provide actionable insights for coaches and sport organizations on how to strengthen compatibility, support athlete well-being, and sustain long-term participation in sport.		[Ji, Yulsoo; McLeod, Christopher M.] Univ Florida, Dept Sport Management, 1864 Stadium Rd, Gainesville, FL 32611 USA; [Lee, Seungjoo] Univ Suwon, Grad Sch Educ, Dept Phys Educ, Hwaseong Si, South Korea; [Ji, Yulsoo] Univ Florida, Dept Sport Management, 1864 Stadium Rd, Gainesville, FL 32611 USA								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001642672800001	77	Article; Article		
J	Xu, Shanshan; Guo, Zhuoyue; Hu, Liang								Effectiveness of a Social Cognitive Theory-Guided, Multi-Component mHealth Intervention on Physical Activity Among Young Adults with Overweight or Obesity								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT											10.1080/02701367.2025.2599886				2025	This study examined the effects of a social cognitive theory (SCT)-guided, multi-component mobile health (mHealth) intervention on physical activity (PA), body mass index (BMI), and SCT constructs (exercise self-efficacy, social support, outcome expectations, self-regulation) among young adults with overweight or obesity. Sixty participants were recruited via convenience sampling and randomly allocated to one of four groups: (1) social media-only, (2) fitness application (app)-only, (3) combined social media and fitness app, or (4) control; 56 participants (25 males, 31 females; mean age = 21.52 +/- 2.61 years) completed the 6-week intervention. PA, BMI, and SCT constructs were assessed at baseline and post-intervention. A repeated measures ANOVA (or a nonparametric alternative) was performed to examine the main and interaction effects of time and group, and Pearson correlation analysis was conducted to explore associations between changes in SCT variables and changes in PA. The multi-component group combining social media and fitness app interventions demonstrated significantly greater improvements in total PA level and moderate-to-vigorous PA time, as well as a marginally significant increase in exercise self-efficacy compared with the control group. Furthermore, changes in exercise self-efficacy were positively associated with changes in PA variables within the intervention groups. This 6-week intervention provides preliminary evidence supporting the potential effectiveness of a theory-driven, multi-component mHealth approach for enhancing PA among young adults with overweight or obesity. Future studies with longer intervention periods and structured follow-up assessments are warranted to confirm its efficacy and sustainability.		[Xu, Shanshan; Guo, Zhuoyue; Hu, Liang] Zhejiang Univ, Zhejiang, Peoples R China; [Hu, Liang] Zhejiang Univ, Coll Educ, Dept Sports Sci, 866 Xihu Dist, Hangzhou, Zhejiang, Peoples R China								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001641717200001	38	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Heise, Michael								Decathlete anthropometrics over time								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541251404426				2025	Most of the greatest athletes in the world across most sports, including Olympic medalists, have become taller and heavier over time and at rates that outstrip secular general population trends. Within this general trend, anthropometric data drawn from medalists across 30 Olympiads, from 1896 through 2024, identify an anomaly. While Olympic medalists across most of the ten individual events that compose the decathlon event, on balance, became taller and heavier over time, height and weight changes for Olympic decathlon medalists over these same years, by contrast, were comparatively more modest. Additionally, decathletes' heights and weights cluster more tightly around the means and, in so doing, imply comparatively less body size variation across decathletes. One key finding from prior related research on decathletes' overall success emphasizes decathletes' need to optimize performance across the event's ten separate disciplines. Results from this study's comparisons of anthropometric data imply that consequences of decathletes' efforts to optimize their success across ten separate events spill-over into and help account for decathletes' comparative height and weight stability over time.		[Heise, Michael] Cornell Law Sch, William G McRoberts Prof Empir Study Law, Ithaca, NY 14853 USA; [Heise, Michael] Cornell Law Sch, William G McRoberts Prof Empir Study Law, Ithaca, NY 14853 USA								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001639547300001	12	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Gil, Priscila Rodrigues; da Silveira, Juliana; Borgatto, Adriano Ferreti; Moratelli, Jessica Amaro; Sonza, Anelise; Coutinho de Azevedo Guimaraes, Adriana								Physical Exercise and Survival in Parkinson's Disease: A Cohort Study								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				97	2			341	347		10.1080/02701367.2025.2594703			APR 3 2026	2026	To estimate the overall survival rate, disease stage, age of people with Parkinson's disease, and time since diagnosis and in relation to physical exercise. Retrospective-prospective longitudinal observational analysis of two cohorts (2018 and 2022) of physical exercise from retrospective randomized clinical trials. The intervention time for the 2018 cohort was 2,100 days and for the 2020 cohort, 800 days. The dependent variable was overall survival, and the independent variables were sociodemographic and clinical variables from the prospective period. This study comprised two distinct cohort groups: the physical exercise group (PEG) and the nonphysical exercise group (NPEG). The Cox proportional hazards model was used to determine independent predictors of survival, and Kaplan-Meier analysis was used to estimate the survival curve. Sixty people with Parkinson's disease (69.5 +/- 9.4 years) were included in the study according to the inclusion and exclusion criteria. The log-rank test revealed non-significant mortality rates among people with Parkinson's disease who participated in the PEG and NPEG (p = .120); however, associating the groups with the disease stage showed a lower mortality rate (p = .001) in the groups with the disease stage in the initial predicted values, as well as age, when the cutoff point was 80 years (p = .022). The overall survival rates of the participants were affected by the interaction of age and the disease stage of the PEG compared to the NPEG, but there was no association of time in days with the disease.		[Gil, Priscila Rodrigues; da Silveira, Juliana; Moratelli, Jessica Amaro; Sonza, Anelise; Coutinho de Azevedo Guimaraes, Adriana] State Univ Santa Catarina UDESC, Florianopolis, Brazil; [Borgatto, Adriano Ferreti] Fed Univ Santa Catarina UFSC, Blumenau, Brazil; [Gil, Priscila Rodrigues] State Univ Santa Catarina UDESC, Postgrad Program Human Movement Sci PPGCMH, R Pascoal Simone,358-Coqueiros, BR-88080350 Florianopolis, SC, Brazil								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001639562300001	28	Article; Article		
J	da Silva, Carlos Ricardo Becker; Chiviacowsky, Suzete								Benefits of Relatedness Support for Motor Learning in Older Adults								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				97	2			321	327		10.1080/02701367.2025.2591690			APR 3 2026	2026	Relatedness, a fundamental psychological need, is defined as the desire for interpersonal closeness and acceptance. In the present experiment, we tested relatedness effects on the learning of a dynamic balance task in older adults. Forty-five participants were divided into three groups. The relatedness support group (RS) received instructions that emphasized acknowledgment, care, and interest in the participants' experiences. In the relatedness frustration group (RF), participants received instructions emphasizing alienation and disinterest in the participant as a person. Participants in the Control group did not receive relatedness instructions. The task required participants to ride a Pedalo along a distance of 7 m. They completed retention and transfer tests one day later. Participants' perceived self-efficacy and affective levels were also evaluated via questionnaires. The results showed higher performance during practice, retention, and transfer phases for participants of the RS group relative to the RF and Control groups. Higher scores of self-efficacy and positive affect were also found for the RS group. These findings demonstrate that practice conditions supporting learners' need for social connection by expressing proximity and interest enhance motor performance and learning, as well as self-efficacy and positive affect, in older adults.		[da Silva, Carlos Ricardo Becker] Complexo Hosp Clinicanp, Pelotas, Brazil; [Chiviacowsky, Suzete] Univ Fed Pelotas, Pelotas, Brazil; [Chiviacowsky, Suzete] Univ Fed Pelotas, Escola Super Educ Fis, Rua Luis Camoes 625, BR-96055630 Pelotas, RS, Brazil								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001639581000001	70	Article; Article		
J	Laas, Mihkel M.; Wright, Matthew; Enright, Kevin; Craig, Thomas								Longitudinal Association Between Sprint and Jump Performance in Youth Male Soccer Players: Implications for Talent Development								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				97	2			348	357		10.1080/02701367.2025.2594709			APR 3 2026	2026	This study analyzed the longitudinal relationship between short sprints and counter movement jump (CMJ) in youth male soccer players. Players (n = 304, age 13.0 +/- 1.9 years) from a Scottish soccer academy completed sprints (10 m, 20 m splits [s]) and a CMJ (cm), on 3 to 14 occasions across 10 seasons. Within-player (repeated measures) and between-player (mean of repeated measures) correlation coefficients were calculated, and a linear mixed model (LMM) was applied to determine whether CMJ can predict sprint changes over a meaningful threshold (0.04 s, equivalent to the suggested minimum difference [similar to 40 cm] for a player to be ahead of the opponent to win a ball in a one-on-one duel). Very large, negative between-player correlations were found for CMJ vs. sprint time (10 m: r = -0.746, 95% CI [-0.792, -0.691]; 20 m: r = -0.822, 95% CI [-0.856, -0.782], respectively). Within-player correlations were moderate-to-large (10 m: r = -0.485, 95% CI [-0.525, -0.443]; 20 m: r = -0.576, 95% CI [-0.611, -0.539]). The LMM analysis revealed that chronological age influenced the within-player correlations, while CMJ did not predict sprint changes over the meaningful threshold. While CMJ might be useful for distinguishing between players with differing sprint ability, it is not a suitable proxy for tracking individual sprint development over time, especially when accounting for chronological age-related changes. Coaches and practitioners should therefore consider incorporating direct sprint assessments into longitudinal monitoring.		[Laas, Mihkel M.] Ulster Univ, Belfast, North Ireland; [Wright, Matthew] Teesside Univ, Middlesbrough, England; [Enright, Kevin] Liverpool John Moores Univ, Liverpool, England; [Craig, Thomas] Robert Gordon Univ, Aberdeen, Scotland; [Wright, Matthew] Teesside Univ, Sch Hlth & Life Sci, Middlesbrough TS1 3BA, England								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001640457000001	60	Article; Article		
J	McGeough, Kenneth; Yang, Yifan; Pang, Joyce S.; Phua, Yi Xian Philip; Burns, Stephen Francis								Associations of Physical Activity With Physical Literacy and Mental Wellbeing in Active Adults: A Mixed-Methods Study								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				97	2			235	243		10.1080/02701367.2025.2579056			APR 3 2026	2026	This study explored how the volume and type of physical activity (PA) relate to physical literacy (PL) and mental wellbeing (MW) in active adults aged 30-59 years. A two-phase explanatory sequential mixed-methods design was used. Phase one involved an online survey of 201 adults (55% female) examining the influence of PA volume and type on PL and MW. In phase two, 14 survey participants (71% female) completed semi-structured interviews exploring reasons for participation in PA and its influence on PL. The interviews were transcribed and thematically coded. Significant positive relationships were found between volume of recreational PA with both perceived PL (r(s) = .284, p < .001) and MW (r(s) = .161, p = .022). Adults engaging in multiple weekly PA had higher PL scores (mean [SD]; 37.00 [4.15]) than those doing a single PA (35.65 [4.04], p = .021, Cohen's d = -0.34) but MW did not differ between groups. When grouped by PA type, participants involved in sports reported higher PL scores (p = .025, eta(2) = 0.046), than those doing running/walking only (mean difference = 2.07, Tukey HSD p = .019), but not those undertaking strength activities (mean difference = 0.98, Tukey HSD p = .464). MW did not differ among PA type. Qualitative findings revealed active adults value PA for maintaining health and managing life challenges. Greater PA volume is linked to higher perceived PL and MW. Engaging in sports may increase perceived PL beyond running and walking.		[McGeough, Kenneth; Yang, Yifan; Pang, Joyce S.; Phua, Yi Xian Philip; Burns, Stephen Francis] Nanyang Technol Univ, Singapore, Singapore; [Burns, Stephen Francis] Nanyang Technol Univ, Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Natl Inst Educ, 1 Nanyang Walk, Singapore 637616, Singapore								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001639075200001	39	Article; Article		
J	Theodosiadou, Anastasia; Sahinis, Chrysostomos; Papavasileiou, Anastasia; Fabre, Marie; Lapole, Thomas; Amiridis, Ioannis; Patikas, Dimitrios; Baudry, Stephane								The Contribution of Gait Parameters to the Decline in Walking Performance Across Adulthood								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				97	2			256	265		10.1080/02701367.2025.2584219			APR 3 2026	2026	This cross-sectional study examined the change in walking performance across adulthood using the 6-minute walking test, the 10-meter walking test (10MWT) and the timed-up and go. Seventy-seven participants were divided into five groups [Young (Y: 20-39 years), Middle-aged (M: 40-59 years), Young-old (YO: 60-69 years), Old (O: 70-79 years), Older-old adults (OO: 80+ years)] performed the three walking tests. In addition, different gait parameters were measured during the 10MWT using Optogait system. Analysis of variances indicated that performances on the three tests were better for Y and M compared to YO, O and OO (p < .001). Breakpoint analysis indicated that performance across the different walking tests started to worsen around 50 years old. Multiple regression showed that step length, stance duration, and sex explained 89% of the variance in 10MWT performance. However, mediation analyses revealed that PF force influenced step length but did not mediate its effect on walking speed, while it significantly mediated the stance duration-performance relationship. Age impacted both gait parameters but only mediated the impact of stance duration on performance. Additionally, PF force mediated the age-step length relation. These findings reveal an age-related decline in walking performance, regardless of task complexity, and demonstrate that the relationship between step length and stance duration with walking speed is influenced by PF force and age. This offers a novel framework for early detection and interventions targeting stance-phase control and step length to preserve mobility and independence in the aging population.		[Theodosiadou, Anastasia; Baudry, Stephane] Univ Libre Bruxelles, Brussels, Belgium; [Sahinis, Chrysostomos; Papavasileiou, Anastasia; Amiridis, Ioannis; Patikas, Dimitrios] Aristotle Univ Thessaloniki, Thessaloniki, Greece; [Fabre, Marie; Lapole, Thomas] Univ Savoie Mont Blanc, Univ Jean Monnet St Etienne, Lyon 1, Chambery, France; [Theodosiadou, Anastasia] Univ Libre Bruxelles, Res Unit Appl Neurophysiol, Lab Appl Biol, Route Lennik 808, B-1070 Brussels, Belgium								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001639060600001	53	Article; Article		
J	Han, Joon Sang; Jang, Young Jin								Exercise-Based Interventions for ADHD: A Review of Modalities, Mechanisms, and Practical Applications								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				97	2			244	255		10.1080/02701367.2025.2581676			APR 3 2026	2026	Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is a common neurodevelopmental condition marked by inattention, hyperactivity, and impulsivity. This narrative review examines the effects of various exercise modalities on ADHD symptoms, based on recent meta-analyses and randomized controlled trials with a focus on children and adolescents published between 2015 and 2025. Exercise modalities categorized as aerobic, open-skill, closed-skill, high-intensity interval training (HIIT), and cognitively demanding activities were examined in recent meta-analyses and clinical trials. Closed-skill exercises like swimming and yoga reduced hyperactivity and impulsivity, while open-skill sports improved attention. HIIT and cognitively engaging tasks enhanced executive function and increased neurochemicals such as BDNF and catecholamines. HIIT shows promise when intensity is individualized and recovery is adequate. Preliminary mechanistic links include catecholamine and BDNF modulation; PI3K-pathways remain hypothesis-generating. Although optimal exercise parameters remain to be determined, accumulating evidence supports the role of structured physical activity as a feasible and effective adjunct to conventional treatment. While many programs involved similar to 2-3 sessions/week for >= 30 min, heterogeneity in protocols and study quality precludes universal prescriptions. Future trials should report adherence, ADHD-specific outcomes, and risk-of-bias controls.		[Han, Joon Sang] Seoul Natl Univ Educ, Seoul, South Korea; [Jang, Young Jin] Duksung Womens Univ, Seoul, South Korea; [Jang, Young Jin] Seoul Womens Univ, Dept Food Sci & Technol, 621 Hwarangro, Seoul 01797, South Korea								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001637797700001	62	Article; Article		
J	Clucas, Kion; Saito, Akira								Does bone mineral mass affect medial elbow injuries in young baseball players?: evaluation using bioelectric impedance analysis								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				54	2			117	123		10.1080/00913847.2025.2597176			MAR 4 2026	2026	BackgroundMedial elbow injuries occur in approximately one-third of all young baseball players and are characterized by injuries to the bone and cartilaginous growth plates. Bone mineral mass, a representative of bone strength, may show individual differences during growth, and the bone strength can temporarily decrease depending on the stage of bone development. However, the relationship between bone mineral mass and medial elbow injuries in young baseball players has not yet been investigated.HypothesisThe bone mineral mass would be lower in players with medial elbow injuries, causing lower bone strength and increased susceptibility to injury.Study designCross-sectional study.MethodsWe recruited 215 baseball players aged 9-12 years; the players completed a questionnaire regarding their age, height, weight, practice duration and frequency, baseball experience, and number of pitches per day. The injury and control groups were determined by ultrasonographic evaluation of the medial aspect of the elbow joint, and bone mineral mass was measured by bioelectric impedance analysis. The hip and shoulder ranges of motion were measured. Each variable was compared between the injury and control groups using the Student's t-test. Simultaneous multivariate logistic regression analysis was subsequently performed to identify the factors associated with medial elbow injuries.ResultsBone mineral mass was significantly higher in the injury group than in the control group (2.02 +/- 0.30 kg vs. 1.91 +/- 0.26 kg, p = 0.003). However, it was not significantly associated with medial elbow injuries in multivariate logistic analysis. Baseball experience (OR, 1.03; 95% CI, 1.01-1.06; p = 0.009) were significantly associated with medial elbow injury.ConclusionContrary to our hypothesis, bone mineral mass was higher in players with medial elbow injuries, but was not significantly associated with them. A one-time measurement of bone mineral mass is probably not specific enough to analyze the condition of the medial epicondyle. Baseball experience has been identified as a possible factor associated with medial elbow injuries in young players, and increases in experience should be used as an indicator to assess elbow joint health.		[Clucas, Kion] Akita City Hosp, Dept Rehabil, 4-30 Kawamotomatsuokamachi, Akita 0100933, Japan; [Saito, Akira] Akita Univ, Grad Sch Med, Akita, Japan; [Saito, Akira] Akita Univ, Fac Med, Akita, Japan; [Clucas, Kion] Akita City Hosp, Dept Rehabil, 4-30 Kawamotomatsuokamachi, Akita 0100933, Japan								0							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001635607700001	44	Article; Article		
J	Lin, Jian-Zhi; Huang, Bing-Xian; Hsu, Ting-Ming; Ko, Bo-Jen								Start smart: Biomechanical differences and training implications of three sprint start techniques								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541251398765				2025	This study aimed to investigate the effects of three sprint start techniques: block, three-point, and standing starts on 50-meter sprint performance and neuromuscular control. Sixteen collegiate male sprinters, all of whom were Division I athletes from the National Taiwan University of Sport's track and field program, were recruited to complete three randomized trials for each of the three start conditions. Electromyography, joint kinematics, and spatiotemporal gait analyses were used to assess reaction time, movement time, segmental velocity, lower-limb muscle activation, joint motion, and step patterns across steps 1 to 9 during the initial sprint phase. A one-way repeated-measures ANOVA (alpha = .05) was applied for statistical analysis. The results demonstrated that the block start yielded the shortest movement time (p < .001) and the highest velocity (p < .01). The three-point start outperformed the standing start in terms of 50 m average sprint velocity (p < .001), peak gastrocnemius activation at the ankle (p < .01), and rectus femoris activation at the knee (p < .001). These advantages were accompanied by greater pre-activation of key muscle groups and enhanced ankle and knee joint stability from the set position through the initial sprint phase. These findings suggest that the three-point start may serve as a practical alternative in scenarios where starting blocks are unavailable and could be implemented in youth training programs or cross-sport performance testing contexts.		[Lin, Jian-Zhi; Huang, Bing-Xian; Hsu, Ting-Ming] Natl Taiwan Univ Sport, Dept Phys Educ, Taichung, Taiwan; [Ko, Bo-Jen] Natl Taichung Univ Educ, Dept Phys Educ, 140 Minsheng Rd, Taichung 403514, Taiwan; [Ko, Bo-Jen] Natl Taichung Univ Educ, Dept Phys Educ, 140 Minsheng Rd, Taichung 403514, Taiwan								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001638005300001	33	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Maviel, Clement; Couderc, Anthony; Galantine, Paul; Pujos, Xavier; Duche, Pascale; Vercruyssen, Fabrice								What key variables differentiating positions across age categories in rugby union?								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541251404184				2025	Potential estimation (PE) in rugby union traditionally emphasizes physical, anthropometric, and biological attributes to distinguish between playing positions. Forwards are typically characterized by greater strength and power, whereas backs rely more on speed and agility. However, how these differentiators evolve across developmental stages remains underexplored. This study aimed to examine age-related changes in discriminative variables influencing positional differentiation across U14, U16, and U18 categories. A total of 139 national level male rugby players were assessed: U14 (n = 64), U16 (n = 51), and U18 (n = 24). Anthropometric data (height, body mass, body mass index (BMI)), maturity status (Y-PHV, MO), sprint performance (T10, T30), and horizontal force-velocity (F-v) profiling were collected. ANOVAs and post hoc analyses explored differences across age and position. Decision tree models identified key discriminative variables, and a feature importance analysis was performed, complemented by a recurrence analysis. Findings revealed significant age- and position-related differences (p < 0.05). BMI and maturity variables were the most relevant at U14, while sprint and F-v metrics gained importance with age. In U18, physical performance indicators such as peak power, theoretical maximal horizontal force, and slope force velocity emerged as dominant. These results suggest a transition from anthropometric to performance-based differentiation across age groups, offering key insights for refining PE strategies in youth rugby.		[Maviel, Clement; Couderc, Anthony; Galantine, Paul; Duche, Pascale; Vercruyssen, Fabrice] Toulon Univ, Lab Jeunesse Act Phys & Sport Sante J AP2S, UR201723207F, Toulon, France; [Couderc, Anthony] RC Toulon SASP, Dept Res & Dev, Toulon, France; [Pujos, Xavier] Univ Toulon & Var, Toulon, France; [Maviel, Clement] Toulon Univ, Lab Jeunesse Act Phys & Sport Sante J AP2S, UR201723207F, Toulon, France								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001634962900001	36	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Rist, Billymo; Quartuccio, Claire; Pearce, Alan J.								Exploring athletic identity, psychological flourishing, and financial and vocational confidence in Australian women footballers transitioning from professional sport								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541251403493				2025	Transition from elite sport is a significant event in an athlete's life. However, the mode of transition (retirement or delisted through loss of contract) can influence the experience and affect psychological wellbeing moving forward. This study explored professional female Australian rules football players (n = 130; mean age 26.6 +/- 5.7 years) leaving the Australian Football League Women's (AFLW) competition between 2020 and 2024. Using scaled-response questions, self-reported responses were compared between voluntarily retired and delisted AFLW players across areas of their transition experience including leaving their club, athlete self-identity, the influence of sport in their daily life, psychological flourishing, financial confidence, and future vocational preparations. Delisted players (n = 87), compared to voluntarily retired players (n = 43), reported similar career spans (p = 0.108) but played less competitive matches than retired players (p = 0.013). Delisted players also reported a significantly worse experience of their club's handling of the process of leaving their club (p = 0.031). Delisted players reported stronger identity attachment to sport (p = 0.045), but similar responses to psychological flourishing and financial competence (all p > 0.05). A greater proportion of delisted players reported studying or looking for employment (p = 0.025). The experience of self-reported transition showed negative correlations with athletic identity (r = -0.228, p = 0.009) and positive correlations with psychological flourishing (r = 0.362, p < 0.001). The results of this exploratory study suggest that as delisted female professional AFLW players expressed lower perception of club's handling of the transition process, the role of professional AFLW club staff should look to improve the transition process in in preparation for an athlete's life outside of professional sport.		[Rist, Billymo] La Trobe Univ, Dept Sport Exercise & Nutr Sci, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Rist, Billymo; Quartuccio, Claire] Australian Football League Players Assoc AFLPA Mel, Programs & Serv, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Pearce, Alan J.] Swinburne Univ Technol, Sch Hlth Sci, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Pearce, Alan J.] Swinburne Univ Technol, Sch Hlth Sci, Melbourne, Vic, Australia								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001634937300001	41	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Drigny, Joffrey; Rolland, Marine; Remilly, Marion; Guermont, Henri; Reboursiere, Emmanuel; Hulet, Christophe; Gauthier, Antoine								Knee proprioception four months after anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction: Impact of limb dominance, anterolateral procedure, and association with readiness to return to sport								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				71				61	68		10.1016/j.ptsp.2024.11.005			JAN 2025	2025	Background: Knee proprioception may be compromised after anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction (ACLR), but associated factors and impact remain unclear. This study evaluated knee proprioception 4 months after primary ACLR, compared with healthy controls, and explored the impacts of leg dominance, anterolateral procedures (AEAPs), and their association with psychological readiness to return to sports. Methods: This prospective cohort study included 30 ACLR participants and 20 healthy controls. Isokinetic testing measured knee strength and proprioception, using passive joint position sense (JPS1: detection, JPS2: repositioning) and kinesthesia (threshold to detection of passive motion). At 8 months, ACLR participants completed the ACL-RSI scale to assess psychological readiness to return to sports. Results: At 4 months postoperative, kinesthesia was better in the operated limb than the non-operated limb (p = 0.008), but position sense did not differ significantly. There were no significant differences in kinesthesia or position sense between ACLR participants and controls. The operated limb had worse JPS2 if the ACLR was on the non-dominant side. Proprioception was unaffected by AEAPs, and only repositioning showed a moderate, non-significant correlation with ACL-RSI (r =-0.377). Conclusion: At 4 months post-ACLR, kinesthesia improved in the operated leg; dominance influenced position sense, highlighting the need for personalized rehabilitation.		[Drigny, Joffrey] Normandie Univ, Serv Med Phys & Readaptat, Serv Med Sport, CHU Caen Normandie,UNICAEN,INSERM,COMETE,GIP CYCER, F-14000 Caen, France; [Rolland, Marine] CHU Caen Normandie, Serv Med Sport, Serv Med Phys & Readaptat, F-14000 Caen, France; [Remilly, Marion; Guermont, Henri; Reboursiere, Emmanuel] CHU Caen Normandie, Serv Med Sport, UNICAEN, F-14000 Caen, France; [Hulet, Christophe] Normandie Univ, Dept Orthoped & Traumatol, UNICAEN, INSERM,COMETE 1075,GIP CYCERON, F-14000 Caen, France; [Gauthier, Antoine] Normandie Univ, UNICAEN, INSERM, COMETE,GIP CYCERON, F-14000 Caen, France; [Drigny, Joffrey] CHU Caen, Urol Dept, Ave Cote Nacre, F-14000 Caen, France; [Drigny, Joffrey] CHU Caen, Med Phys & Readaptat, Av Cote Nacre, F-14000 Caen, France								7							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001442982000001	55	Article; Article		
J	Chang, Kun; Lee, Hyun-Woo; Yu, Bo								In-game virtual goods consumption in esports: an extended cognition-affect-conation model linking age to purchase intention across FPS and MOBA genres								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP											10.1108/IJSMS-06-2025-0283				2025	PurposeThe economic impact of virtual goods consumption in esports continues to rise, yet the underlying decision-making processes and consumption patterns remain underexplored. This study extends the Cognition-Affect-Conation framework to empirically examine how perceived values (i.e. social, utilitarian and investment), affective attitude and purchase intention toward virtual goods in esports are influenced by age across different game genres.Design/methodology/approachA total of 373 esports consumers were recruited through online social media platforms and included in the analysis. Structural equation modeling and multigroup analysis were conducted to test the proposed model.FindingsAge shapes how gamers form perceived values, which in turn foster affective attitude and ultimately strengthen purchase intention, independent of income differences. These cognitive-affective pathways also vary by genre. Younger participants perceive higher investment value in first-person shooter games, while gamers of multiplayer online battle arena games respond more strongly to perceived social value toward virtual goods.Originality/valueThis study provides novel insights into the decision-making processes of virtual goods consumption among esports consumers at different ages and game genres, offering actionable strategies to enhance marketing effectiveness and consumer engagement.		[Chang, Kun] Univ South Carolina, Dept Sport & Entertainment Management, Columbia, SC 29208 USA; [Lee, Hyun-Woo] Texas A&M Univ, Dept Kinesiol & Sport Management, College Stn, TX USA; [Yu, Bo] Univ Minnesota, Sch Kinesiol, Minneapolis, MN USA; [Chang, Kun] Univ South Carolina, Dept Sport & Entertainment Management, Columbia, SC 29208 USA								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001630313100001	55	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Weiss, Doria L.; Law, Christian K.; Yendluri, Avanish; Obana, Kyle K.; Namiri, Nikan K.; Danaher, Michael J.; Saltzman, Bryan M.; Parisien, Robert L.; Trofa, David P.								Electric scooter injuries in the pediatric population are increasing: an analysis of national injury trends and mechanisms between 2014 and 2023								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				54	2			155	160		10.1080/00913847.2025.2598225			MAR 4 2026	2026	IntroductionThe use of electric scooters (e-scooters) has surged over the past decade, leading to a notable rise in e-scooter related injuries presenting to emergency departments. This study aims to analyze trends and mechanisms of e-scooter injuries in the United States pediatric population. We hypothesized that there would be a significant increase in pediatric e-scooter injuries from 2014 to 2023, and particularly since the COVID-19 pandemic from 2020 to 2023, with many patients sustaining fractures.MethodsThe National Electronic Injury Surveillance System (NEISS) was queried for pediatric (age <= 18) electric scooter injuries presenting to US emergency departments between 1 January 2014 and 31 December 2023. Patient demographics, injury location, discharge disposition, and diagnosis were extracted. The mechanisms of injury were categorized based on the injury narrative. Injury trends were analyzed using linear regression analysis.ResultsA total of 2,231 pediatric e-scooter injuries (NE = 63,527) were included. The mean age was 11.9 +/- 4.0 years old and 63.3% of patients were male. There was a statistically significant increase in pediatric e-scooter injuries from 2014 to 2023 (p = 0.002). Additionally, we identified a 2.4 fold increase in annual post-COVID (2021-2023) average injuries compared to pre-COVID (2014-2019). The most common diagnosis was fractures (NE = 18103, 28.5%). The most common body part injured was the head (NE = 11258, 17.7%). Collisions with other moving vehicles comprised 10.8% of all injuries (NE = 6840). The most common mechanisms of injury were falling off of the e-scooter (NE = 43889, 69.1%). Out of the 432 (19.4%) narratives that reported helmet usage, 72.6% indicated that the patient was not wearing a helmet.ConclusionPediatric e-scooter injuries have increased significantly in the past decade, particularly since the COVID-19 pandemic. As e-scooter usage continues to rise, these findings underscore the need for targeted safety measures to protect young riders from fractures and head injuries.		[Weiss, Doria L.; Law, Christian K.; Obana, Kyle K.; Danaher, Michael J.; Trofa, David P.] Columbia Univ, Dept Orthopaed, New York, NY USA; [Yendluri, Avanish; Namiri, Nikan K.; Parisien, Robert L.] Icahn Sch Med Mt Sinai, Dept Orthopaed Surg, New York, NY USA; [Saltzman, Bryan M.] Indiana Univ Hlth Orthoped & Sports Med, Dept Orthoped Surg, Indianapolis, IN USA; [Saltzman, Bryan M.] Indiana Univ Sch Med, Dept Orthoped Surg, Indianapolis, IN USA; [Weiss, Doria L.] Columbia Univ, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Div Shoulder Elbow & Sports Med, Irving Med Ctr, 622 168th St, 11th Floor, New York, NY 10032 USA								3							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001630756400001	34	Article; Article		
J	Munkasy, Barry A.; Bockelman, Kristin; Langdon, Jody L.; Buckley, Thomas A.								Concussion recovery: dual-task performance and prioritization								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				54	1			91	99		10.1080/00913847.2025.2597172			JAN 2 2026	2026	ObjectivesThe objective of this study was to assess a clinically feasible DT protocol consisting of the Balance Error Scoring System (BESS) and Standard Assessment of Concussion (SAC) administered simultaneously during and beyond clinically determined concussion recovery.MethodWe recruited 28 collegiate student-athletes (14 post-concussion, 14 control) who performed a DT BESS and SAC assessment at three timepoints: 1) clinical recovery, 2) return to play (RTP) day, and 3) 30 days post-concussion. Scores on each component were assessed with a linear mixed model ANOVA with repeated measures and task prioritization was assessed with a Chi-Square.ResultsThere was not a significant group by time interaction for the BESS (F: 0.48, p = 0.625, eta(2) = 0.018) or SAC (F: 1.927, p = 0.156, eta(2) = 0.069), but there was a significant difference in task prioritization at RTP (chi(2): 13.4, p = 0.010).ConclusionWhile group performance did not differ over time, the concussion participants had a range of task prioritizations at RTP, including mutual interference, which could help identify athletes with incomplete neurological recovery.		[Munkasy, Barry A.; Bockelman, Kristin; Langdon, Jody L.] Georgia Southern Univ, Dept Hlth Sci & Kinesiol, Statesboro, GA USA; [Buckley, Thomas A.] Univ Delaware, Dept Appl Physiol & Kinesiol, Newark, NJ USA; [Buckley, Thomas A.] Univ Delaware, Biomech & Movement Sci Interdisciplinary Program, Newark, NJ USA; [Buckley, Thomas A.] Dept Kinesiol & Appl Physiol, Biomech & Movement Sci Interdisciplinary Program, Integrated Neurosci Grad Program, 349 STAR Tower,100 Discovery Blvd, Newark, NJ 19713 USA								0							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001630747300001	64	Article; Article		
J	Christopher, Shefali M.; DePaul, Hannah; Piropato, Lisa; Prevett, Christina; Deering, Rita E.								Leveling the Playing Field: Key Considerations for the Female Endurance Athlete Across the Lifespan								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				47	6			678	696		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000933			DEC 2025	2025	More female athletes are participating and competing in endurance events, yet injury rates are higher than male athletes. To level the playing field, coaches need to understand the unique biophysiological considerations when working with the female athlete. Adolescent female athletes must manage puberty and menstruation while participating and performing. Pregnant athletes must adapt to changes related to the growing baby, yet balance participation and performance without significant deconditioning. Postpartum athletes must navigate return to sport along with healing from childbirth and recovering from pregnancy-related changes while also managing their mental health, pelvic health, bone health, etc. Finally, the master's female athlete must maintain performance while navigating menopause and the effects of changing hormones. Recognizing relative energy deficiency in sport, menstrual cycle abnormalities, bone health, and pelvic floor dysfunction can assist the athlete in getting referred to the appropriate health provider and prevent potential short- and long-term injuries. This evidence-based article will provide practical approaches to recognize and screen common issues affecting female athletes during the different lifespan stages and provide resources and recommendations to help the athlete to stay healthy and in the game.		[Christopher, Shefali M.] Tufts Univ, Phys Therapy, Dept Rehabil Sci, Seattle, WA 98104 USA; [DePaul, Hannah] Adams Sports Med & Phys Therapy, Novi, MI USA; [Piropato, Lisa] Ginkgo Tree Phys Therapy & Wellness & Parkview Hlt, Ft Wayne, IN USA; [Prevett, Christina] Univ Alberta, Women & Childrens Hlth Res Inst, Program Pregnancy & Postpartum Hlth, Fac Kinesiol Sport & Recreat,Phys Act & Diabet Lab, Edmonton, AB, Canada; [Deering, Rita E.] Carroll Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Waukesha, WI USA; [Christopher, Shefali M.] Tufts Univ, Phys Therapy, Dept Rehabil Sci, Seattle, WA 98104 USA								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001631979800004	182	Article; Article		
J	Cabre, Hannah E.								Optimizing Performance and Health: Nutrition Considerations for Female Athletes in Strength and Conditioning								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				47	6			619	629		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000914			DEC 2025	2025	Nutrition and dietary intake are key factors for exercise and sport performance. While a substantial body of research highlights the impact of nutrition on exercise, many dietary and nutrient recommendations are based on research studies only conducted in men. However, the distinct physiological, neurological, and hormonal changes across a woman's life cycle significantly affect nutritional needs. This narrative review explores key recommendations for calories, carbohydrates, fats, proteins, and select supplements, highlighting the absence of sex-specific guidelines in current dietary frameworks for strength and conditioning female athletes. The review synthesizes current literature to provide practical guidance for coaches, sport dietitians, and health practitioners to optimize both performance and health outcomes for female athletes.		[Cabre, Hannah E.] Louisiana State Univ Syst, Pennington Biomed Res Ctr, Baton Rouge, LA 70802 USA; [Cabre, Hannah E.] Louisiana State Univ Syst, Pennington Biomed Res Ctr, Baton Rouge, LA 70802 USA								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:001631979800008	116	Article; Article		
J	Kraemer, William J.; Nitka, Mike								Understanding Recovery: Practical and Technological Strategies for Coaches								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				47	6			721	728		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000935			DEC 2025	2025			[Kraemer, William J.] Ohio State Univ, Dept Athlet, Columbus, OH 43210 USA; [Kraemer, William J.] Ohio State Univ, Dept Human Sci, Columbus, OH 43210 USA; [Kraemer, William J.] Univ Connecticut, Dept Kinesiol, Storrs, CT 06269 USA; [Nitka, Mike] Human Performance Ctr, Muskego, WI USA; [Nitka, Mike] Muskego High Sch, Muskego, WI USA; [Nitka, Mike] Carroll Univ, Waukesha, WI USA; [Kraemer, William J.] Ohio State Univ, Dept Athlet, Columbus, OH 43210 USA; [Kraemer, William J.] Ohio State Univ, Dept Human Sci, Columbus, OH 43210 USA; [Kraemer, William J.] Univ Connecticut, Dept Kinesiol, Storrs, CT 06269 USA								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001631979800007	27	Article; Article		
J	Heumann, Kristin J.; Feit, Mary Kate								Women's Mentorship Within the National Strength and Conditioning Association								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				47	6			643	647		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000916			DEC 2025	2025	The National Strength and Conditioning Association (NSCA) is a professional organization that supports more than 60,000 professionals in our industry, with more than 600 volunteers who serve in various roles to grow the profession. Historically, women in the NSCA have been a minority group. The NSCA has 11 volunteer committees that serve the Board of Directors. The Women's Committee aims to encourage and promote the strength and conditioning profession for women. The role of the committee is to coordinate, monitor, and advocate action to increase the participation of women within the organization. After many years of discussion among the Women's Committee with the board liaison and the support staff, the Women's Committee created a subcommittee to organize the Women's Mentorship program. As a result, in 2023, the NSCA offered the inaugural Women's Mentorship program with 81 mentor/mentee participants. The purpose of this article was to provide (a) a review of the current literature on women working in athletics and (b) an overview of the inaugural Women's Mentorship program.		[Heumann, Kristin J.] Colorado Mesa Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Grand Junction, CO 81501 USA; [Feit, Mary Kate] Springfield Coll, Dept Exercise Sci, Springfield, MA USA; [Heumann, Kristin J.] Colorado Mesa Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Grand Junction, CO 81501 USA								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001631979800010	31	Article; Article		
J	Gomez, Cara J.								Leadership Development for Women in Strength and Conditioning								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				47	6			713	720		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000940			DEC 2025	2025	Leadership is a skill that can be developed like any other skill, and strength and conditioning specialists should learn and practice their leadership skills to create optimal environments for enhancing athlete performance. Women in sports often face additional gender-specific challenges as they navigate leadership positions, reflected by the fact that only 16% of head strength and conditioning coaches were women in 2022. This article begins by examining the definitions of leadership and the application of leadership to the clinical nature of strength and conditioning. The common barriers women face in leadership in this field are then presented from a multilevel perspective, and strategies are discussed to navigate these barriers. Last, specific action items are presented for women to understand and develop their leadership skills and move forward in employment or association leadership positions, considering best practices to mitigate common barriers. After reading this article, women will understand the value of leadership for those in strength and conditioning and have various practical application ideas for leadership development to mitigate common barriers reported in the field.		[Gomez, Cara J.] Delaware State Univ, Dover, DE 19901 USA; [Gomez, Cara J.] Delaware State Univ, Dover, DE 19901 USA								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001631979800003	38	Article; Article		
J	Mikkonen, Ritva S.; Hakkinen, Keijo								Evidence for Periodizing Strength and/or Endurance Training According to Menstrual Cycle Phases to Optimize Female Athlete Performance Is Lacking								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				47	6			630	642		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000917			DEC 2025	2025	Periodizing and programming strength and endurance training according to the phases of the menstrual cycle has been recommended in popular and social media. The approach is based on the idea that the nonreproductive actions of female sex hormones like estradiol and progesterone can be "taken advantage of" to enhance or optimize training. Female sex hormone concentrations, which fluctuate across the menstrual cycle, influence physiological processes acting on muscle, nervous, epithelial, and connective tissues, although sometimes being associated with adverse symptoms. These changes in sex hormone concentrations are suggested to influence strength and endurance training outcomes to some extent. However, at present, research does not support the idea that periodizing or programming strength or endurance training according to the menstrual cycle confers additional benefits over more traditional approaches to strength or endurance training. The purpose of this article is to critically review the scientific literature regarding "period-periodized" training to improve strength and/or endurance performance and to evaluate the approach from a strength and conditioning research perspective. This review encompasses both strength and endurance training as both training modes are included in global exercise recommendations, as well as the training programs of most competitive athletes.		[Mikkonen, Ritva S.] Univ Jyvaskyla, Fac Sport & Hlth Sci, Sports Technol Unit Vuokatti, Vuokatti, Finland; [Hakkinen, Keijo] Univ Jyvaskyla, Fac Sport & Hlth Sci, Jyvaskyla, Finland; [Mikkonen, Ritva S.] Univ Jyvaskyla, Fac Sport & Hlth Sci, Sports Technol Unit Vuokatti, Vuokatti, Finland								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:001631979800001	105	Article; Article		
J	Clemente, Filipe Manuel; Afonso, Jose; Trybulski, Robert; Beato, Marco; Sanchez, Javier Sanchez; Mroczek, Dariusz; Grzywacz, Tomasz; Sawicki, Piotr; Gonzalez-Fernandez, Francisco Tomas								Acute and Residual Physical Fatigue, Along With Recovery Time Following Sided Games: A Scoping Review and Evidence Gap Map Focusing on Methodological Aspects								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				24	4			779	800		10.52082/jssm.2025.779			DEC 2025	2025	This scoping review aimed to (i) map methodological characteristics of studies investigating acute and residual fatigue and recovery after small-sided games (SSGs), (ii) identify outcomes, measures, and timings assessed across neuromuscular, psycho-physiological, and biochemical/endocrine domains, and (iii) highlight evidence gaps to inform future research. Following a registered protocol (OSF: osf.io/73rzs) and PRISMA-ScR guidelines, three databases (PubMed, Scopus, Web of Science) were searched to July 2025. Eligible studies included Tier >= 2 athletes, examined SSGs as interventions, and reported pre-post neuromuscular, psychophysiological and biochemical/endocrine outcomes. Data were extracted on populations, competitive level, SSG formats, outcomes, and timings, and synthesized descriptively with evidence gap maps. From 3,842 records, 32 studies were included. Most involved men soccer players at Tier 3, with fewer on women, other sports, or adaptive contexts. SSG formats clustered around 3v3-4v4. Psychophysiological measures were most frequently reported, generally showing acute elevations in heart rate and rating of perceived exertion and short-lived reductions in heart rate variability. Neuromuscular outcomes included sprint and hamstring strength, often reduced up to 48-72 h, while countermovement jump results were inconsistent. Biochemical/endocrine measures typically showed acute rises in lactate and short-term creatine kinase elevations, with hormonal findings less consistent. Assessments were concentrated immediately post and at 24 h, with fewer extending beyond 48 h. As conclusion, current evidence suggests that SSGs are associated with acute psycho-physiological strain and, in some cases, short-term neuromuscular and biochemical disturbances, but findings vary across studies. Given the methodological heterogeneity and narrow scope of populations, conclusions must be interpreted with caution.		[Clemente, Filipe Manuel; Grzywacz, Tomasz; Sawicki, Piotr] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, Gdansk, Poland; [Afonso, Jose] Univ Porto, Fac Sport, Ctr Res Educ Innovat & Intervent Sport CIFI D 2, Porto, Portugal; [Trybulski, Robert] Upper Silesian Acad Katowice, Med Dept Wojciech Korfanty, Katowice, Poland; [Trybulski, Robert] Provita Zory Med Ctr, Zory, Poland; [Beato, Marco] Univ Suffolk, Sch Allied Hlth Sci, Ipswich, England; [Sanchez, Javier Sanchez] Univ Pontificia Salamanca, Res Grp PRENDE, Salamanca, Spain; [Mroczek, Dariusz] Wroclaw Univ Hlth & Sport Sci, Dept Sport Didact, Wroclaw, Poland; [Gonzalez-Fernandez, Francisco Tomas] Univ Granada, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sports, Granada, Spain; [Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, Gdansk, Poland								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:001588707100001	67	Article; Article		
J	Louit, Loic; Merlen, Virgile; Ward, Jonathan; Gavarry, Olivier								Fast Start Strategy in High-Intensity Interval Training in Rugby Union Academy Players								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				24	4			813	823		10.52082/jssm.2025.813			DEC 2025	2025	A fast-start strategy, characterized by higher-intensity efforts during the initial work intervals, in high-intensity interval training (HIIT-FS) have been shown to optimize time spent at high oxygen uptake levels in endurance sports, but their effects in team sport athletes remain unexplored. This study aimed to compare the physiological (gas exchange, heart rate), perceptual responses (Rate of Perceived Exertion (RPE), and external load responses (Global Positioning System (GPS) derived distance) between a high-intensity interval training protocol using a fast-start strategy high-intensity interval training (HIIT-FS) and a constant-intensity high-intensity interval training (HIIT-C) protocol in academy rugby union players. Eight male rugby players (19.9 +/- 2.2 years) from two professional French teams performed three sessions: (1) a 30-15 Intermittent Fitness Test (30-15 IFT) to determine velocity at intermittent fitness test (VIFT) and fitness assessment (VO2peak), (2) a HIIT-C session: 2 x 8 intervals of 30 s at 88% VIFT with 15 s rest between intervals and 3 minutes passive rest between sets, and (3) a HIIT-FS session: 2 x 8 intervals consisting of 4 x 30 s at 98% VIFT followed by 4 x 30 s at 78% VIFT, each separated by 15 s rest and 3 minutes rest between sets. Physiological measures included time spent at or above 90% of peak oxygen uptake (T > 90% VO2peak) and peak heart rate (T > 90% HRpeak), peak heart rate (HRpeak), mean oxygen uptake (VO2mean), mean percentage of peak oxygen uptake (mean %VO2peak) and peak heart rate (HRpeak), mean minute ventilation (VEmean), and mean respiratory frequency (fR(mean)). External load variables were total distance, distance > 7 km center dot h(-1), distance > 16 km center dot h-1, and mechanical work distance. Perceptual response was assessed using RPE. HIIT-FS significantly increased T > 90% VO2peak (318.8 +/- 138.9 s versus 230.6 +/- 115.6 s; d=0.88; p < 0.05) and mean % VO2peak (86.1 +/- 3% versus 82.1 +/- 3.2%; d = 1.54; p < 0.05) compared to HIIT-C, primarily during the first four intervals of each set, where higher intensities (98% VIFT) were prescribed. No significant differences were observed in external load metrics between protocols. Regarding heart rate responses, only T > 90% HRpeak during intervals 1-4 of set 2 was significantly greater in the HIIT-FS protocol (129.8 +/- 24.0 s vs. 109.0 +/- 34.0 s; d = 0.90; p < 0.05). Perceptual response (RPE) was also significantly higher following HIIT-FS (9.0 +/- 0.5 vs. 7.8 +/- 0.7; d = 1.80; p < 0.05). HIIT-FS increases time spent at high VO2 levels in rugby players without increasing external load, making it a promising training strategy to improve aerobic capacity. However, due to its higher perceived exertion, HIIT-FS may be more appropriate when only a limited number of sets can be performed (e.g., two), and should be balanced with classic HIIT protocols when session volume allows more time. Future research should investigate its long-term adaptations and applicability in different team-sport populations.		[Louit, Loic; Ward, Jonathan; Gavarry, Olivier] Toulon Univ, Lab Youth Phys Act & Sports Hlth J AP2S, Toulon, France; [Merlen, Virgile] Univ Poitiers, Fac Sport Sci UFR STAPS, Lab MOVE UR20296, Poitiers, France; [Louit, Loic; Merlen, Virgile] Aviron Bayonnais, Bayonne, France; [Ward, Jonathan] Provence Rugby, Aix En Provence, France; [Louit, Loic] Toulon Univ, Lab Youth Phys Act & Sports Hlth J AP2S, Toulon, France; [Louit, Loic] Aviron Bayonnais, Bayonne, France								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:001591244700001	49	Article; Article		
J	Kwok, Wan-Yu; So, Billy Chun-Lung; Psycharakis, Stelios G.; Ng, Shamay Sheung-Mei								The Effect of The 8-Week Core Muscle Training in Swimming Time, Swimming Force and Core Muscle Activity Among Swimmers: A Randomized Controlled Trial								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				24	4			755	763		10.52082/jssm.2025.755			DEC 2025	2025	This intervention was conducted to evaluate the effects of 8 weeks of core training on swimming performance, force performance and core muscle activation. An 8-week core training was implemented, 32 swimmers were randomly allocated to experimental group (EG) (age: 14.38-14.88) and control group (CG) (age: 15.33-17.40). The CG maintained regular in-water training, while EG performed two additional core training a week. Swimming cle activity were obtained through 50 m front-crawl (FC) time trials and surface electromyography (sEMG). Moreover, the tethered swimming force was measured using the Tethered Swimming Test (TST) as a kinetic parameter. All tests were performed twice (pre- and post-intervention) to examine differences in measured parameters. No between-group differences were found. Male swimmers in EG showed within group decrease in swimming time (- 0.59 s; p < 0.05; ES = 0.827), while female swimmers in both groups showed changes in swimming velocity (EG: + 0.03 m/s; CG: + 0.02 m/s; p < 0.05). EG in male and female swimmers showed more improvement in TST than CG. For the co-contraction index (CCI) of the core muscle, no differences were demonstrated in female and male groups. This study did not indicate significant effects of core training on swimmers, additional research exploring core training is recommended to confirm these findings.		[Kwok, Wan-Yu; Ng, Shamay Sheung-Mei] Hong Kong Polytech Univ, Dept Rehabil Sci, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [So, Billy Chun-Lung] Hong Kong Polytech Univ, Dept Biomed Engn, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [So, Billy Chun-Lung] Hong Kong Polytech Univ, Res Inst Sports Sci & Technol, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [Psycharakis, Stelios G.] Univ Edinburgh, Inst Sport Phys Educ & Hlth Studies, Moray House Sch Educ & Sport, Edinburgh, Scotland; [So, Billy Chun-Lung] Hong Kong Polytech Univ, Dept Biomed Engn, Hong Kong, Peoples R China								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001588234700001	46	Article; Article		
J	Zhai, Wenhua; Zhai, Qinghua; Wei, Lixin; Wen, Xiaoyuan								Can The Frequency and Intensity of Tai Chi Influence the Magnitude of Adaptations in Health Markers and Physical Fitness in Older Adults? A Randomized Controlled Study								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				24	4			871	880		10.52082/jssm.2025.871			DEC 2025	2025	The purpose of this study was to compare the effects of different frequencies and intensities of Tai Chi practice on blood pressure, cognitive function, stress levels, and physical fitness parameters in older adults. A randomized controlled trial with parallel groups was conducted over 16 weeks to evaluate two Tai Chi interventions (3x50 min/week vs. 5x30 min/week) in older adults (n = 46). Outcomes included blood pressure, cognitive function (MoCA), perceived stress (PSS), flexibility (Chair Sit and Reach, Back Scratch), strength (handgrip, arm curl, chair stand), agility (8-Foot Up-and-Go), and functional capacity (Six-Minute Walk Test). Post-intervention, TC5d showed significantly better performance than the control group in arm curl (p = 0.017), chair stand (p = 0.001), handgrip strength (p = 0.004), and 8-foot up-and-go (p = 0.041). TC3d performed significantly better than the control group in the 6-minute walk test (p = 0.013). MoCA scores were significantly higher in both TC3d (p = 0.004) and TC5d (p = 0.008) compared to the control group. PSS scores were significantly lower in TC3d (p = 0.004) and TC5d (p < 0.001) compared to the control group. This study suggests that both Tai Chi interventions improve cognitive function and reduce stress in older adults. The TC5d group showed greater benefits in strength, agility, and flexibility, while the TC3d group improved functional capacity. These results suggest that a higher-frequency Tai Chi regimen (5x30 min/week) is more effective for improving physical fitness and mental health in older adults.		[Zhai, Wenhua; Wei, Lixin] Geely Univ China, Coll Phys Educ & Hlth, Chengdu, Peoples R China; [Zhai, Qinghua] Moscow State Univ, Moscow, Russia; [Wen, Xiaoyuan] Chengdu Sports Univ, Chengdu, Peoples R China; [Zhai, Qinghua] Moscow State Univ, Moscow, Russia								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:001592922900001	39	Article; Article		
J	Nishiguchi, Honoka; Takabayashi, Tomoya; Kikumoto, Takanori; Kubo, Masayoshi								Effects of Foot-Strike Patterns During Running on Cumulative Load of Achilles Tendon Force, Plantar Fascia Force, and Patellofemoral Joint Stress								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				24	4			747	754		10.52082/jssm.2025.747			DEC 2025	2025	Foot-strike patterns, including rearfoot strike (RFS), midfoot strike (MFS), and forefoot strike (FFS), are related to running injuries. Additionally, cumulative load is an important parameter when considering running injuries, but the cumulative loads of Achilles tendon force (ATF), plantar fascia force (PFF), and patellofemoral joint stress (PFJS) across all foot-strike patterns, including MFS, remain unknown. This study examined the effects of different foot-strike patterns during running, including MFS, on the peak values and cumulative load of ATF, PFF, and PFJS. Twenty healthy participants were enrolled in this study. The ATF, PFF, and PFJS during barefoot running with RFS, MFS, and FFS at 10 km/h were analyzed using a three-dimensional motion capture system and force plates. Their peak values and impulse per mile (an indicator of cumulative load) were calculated. These variables were statistically compared across foot strike patterns. The significance level was adjusted using the Bonferroni method for post-hoc tests (alpha = 0.016). Additionally, Cohen's d was used to calculate the effect size. The peak values and cumulative loads of the ATF and PFF were highest in FFS, followed by MFS and RFS. Conversely, the peak values and cumulative loads of the PFJS were higher in RFS and MFS than in FFS. Additionally, the effect size of impulse per mile was larger than that for peak values. The load is applied to different regions depending on the foot-strike pattern. ATF and PFF showed intermediate values at midfoot strike, MFS is suggesting that it may reduce the risk of developing or exacerbating Achilles tendinopathy and plantar fasciitis. Moreover, cumulative load may be a more meaningful parameter than peak values for estimating load during actual running.		[Nishiguchi, Honoka] Niigata Univ Hlth & Welf, Grad Sch, Niigata, Japan; [Nishiguchi, Honoka; Takabayashi, Tomoya; Kikumoto, Takanori; Kubo, Masayoshi] Niigata Univ Hlth & Welf, Inst Human Movement & Med Sci, Niigata, Japan; [Nishiguchi, Honoka] Niigata Univ Hlth & Welf, Grad Sch, Niigata, Japan; [Nishiguchi, Honoka] Niigata Univ Hlth & Welf, Inst Human Movement & Med Sci, Niigata, Japan								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:001587017000001	41	Article; Article		
J	Tan, Bo; Hu, Anqiang; Zheng, Yafei								Exploring The Physiological and Physical Basis of RPE Responses in Soccer: A Comparative Analysis of Internal and External Load Determinants Across Different Training Drills								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				24	4			881	890		10.52082/jssm.2025.881			DEC 2025	2025	This study investigated the relationships between Rate of Perceived Exertion (RPE) and various objective internal and external training load measures across multiple drill types in youth academy soccer players, a comparative approach that has been rarely examined. Forty-six male outfield soccer players (16.3 +/- 0.4 years) from two under-17 academy-level teams competing in a city-level league, training three times per week with weekend matches, were monitored over two weeks during regular training. Data included RPE (CR-10 scale), heart rate responses (HRaverage, HRmax), and external load variables (total distance per minute, average speed, distance in Z4 [15 - 19 km/h], and Z5 [>19 km/h]) via Polar Team Pro, measured across all drills (3v3, 6v6, 9v9, 11v11, 10x5 positional game, repeated sprint training, muscular endurance circuit training, and slalom exercise). Aerobic capacity (VIFT) was assessed separately using the 30 - 15 IFT. Results indicated that RPE consistently showed large positive correlations with HRaverage (e.g., 3v3: r = 0.977) and HRmax (e.g., 3v3: r = 0.778) across most drills, Conversely, relationships between RPE and the VIFT were varied, showing large negative correlations in larger-sided games (e.g., 11v11: r = -0.446; 9v9: r tions between RPE and general distance/speed metrics were inconsistent, while distances covered in high-intensity speed zones Z4: r = 0.830; 3v3 Z5: r = 0.710), particularly in drills like 3v3, 6v6, repeated sprint training, and slalom. In conclusion, RPE's		[Tan, Bo] Geely Univ China, Coll Phys Educ & Hlth, Chengdu 641400, Peoples R China; [Hu, Anqiang] Sichuan Tourism Univ, Chengdu 610100, Peoples R China; [Zheng, Yafei] ChengDu Sports Univ, Chengdu 610041, Peoples R China; [Hu, Anqiang] Sichuan Tourism Univ, Chengdu 610100, Peoples R China								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:001592922600001	42	Article; Article		
J	Bicudo, Filipe Oliveira; Figueiredo, Lucas Savassi; da Silva, Amanda Franco; Sarmento, Hugo; Solomons, Jocelyn; Clemente, Filipe Manuel; Castro, Henrique de Oliveira								Comparison of Ball-in-Play Running Demands Across Game Phases and The Relationship between Physical and Technical Variables: An Analysis of The 2024 Female Super Sevens Tournament								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				24	4			713	720		10.52082/jssm.2025.713			DEC 2025	2025	Quantifying the most intense periods of Rugby Sevens matches is essential for optimizing training and improving performance. This study aimed to: (i) compare ball-in-play (BIP) running demands across game phases (attack, defense, and transition), and (ii) examine correlations between BIP duration and physical and technical variables. Eighteen professional female Rugby Sevens athletes were monitored across 18 matches in the 2024 Super Sevens Championship (Brazil) using 10-Hz GPS units and post-match video analysis. Friedman tests revealed significant phase differences for sprint distance per minute, chi(2)(2, N = 310) = 11.98, p = .003,eta(2)= .032; sprints per minute, chi(2)(2, N = 310) = 7.45, p = .024, eta(2) = .018; and decelerations per minute, chi(2)(2, N = 310) = 10.00, p = .007, eta(2) = .026. Post hoc analyses showed greater sprint output during the attacking phase (p < .05). No significant differences were found for distance per minute or accelerations per minute (p > .05). Spearman correlations indicated negative relationships between BIP duration and sprints (rho =-.125, p = .027) and accelerations per minute (rho = -.191, p < .001). Conversely, BIP duration showed significant positive correlations with several technical actions, including tackles (rho = .578, p < .001), passes (rho = .325, p < .001), and rucks (rho = .321, p < .001). These findings underscore the importance of game-phase-specific conditioning and suggest that longer BIP durations are characterized by reduced physical intensity but increased technical engagement.		[Bicudo, Filipe Oliveira; Castro, Henrique de Oliveira] Univ Fed Mato Grosso UFMT, Cuiaba, MT, Brazil; [Figueiredo, Lucas Savassi] Univ Fed Minas Gerais UFMG, Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil; [da Silva, Amanda Franco] Univ Fed Pelotas UFPel, Pelotas, RS, Brazil; [Sarmento, Hugo] Univ Coimbra, Coimbra, Portugal; [Solomons, Jocelyn] Stellenbsoch Univ SU, Div Sport Sci, Stellenbosch, South Africa; [Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Res Ctr Sports Performance Recreat Innovat & Tech, Rio Maior, Portugal; [Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, Dept Biomech & Sport Engn, Gdansk, Poland; [Castro, Henrique de Oliveira] Univ Fed Mato Grosso UFMT, Cuiaba, MT, Brazil								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:001682970600001	44	Article; Article		
J	Karasiak, Fabio C.; Balbino Junior, Sandro; Leonardi, Thiago J.; Mendes, Felipe G.; Soares, Andre L. A.; Lima, Ahlan B.; Goncalves, Carlos E.; Carvalho, Humberto M.								Discrepancies between maturity offset predictions and menarche in young female athletes								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	4			2192	2200		10.1177/17479541251394263			AUG 2026	2026	Growth and maturation are critical for interpreting the development and performance of young athletes. Selection pressures in youth sport vary by discipline: team sports often favor early maturers, while aesthetic and weight-sensitive sports, such as gymnastics, tend to favor late-maturing athletes-especially among girls. These patterns can influence which athletes are identified and retained during adolescence. Somatic indicators, particularly estimates of age at peak height velocity (PHV), are commonly used to assess maturity status. However, these models have known limitations, especially for early and late maturers. In girls, menarche offers an additional biological marker for sexual maturation. This study examined the agreement between PHV-based classifications and menarcheal status in 178 Brazilian female athletes (basketball: n = 89; gymnastics: n = 25; volleyball: n = 64), aged 10.6 to 16.2 years. Athletes were grouped as early, on-time, or late maturers. Agreement between classification methods was analyzed using multinomial logistic regressions, adjusting for ethnic variation. Results revealed a weak correlation between age at PHV and age at menarche [r = 0.24; 68% CI: 0.16 to 0.31], with better classification accuracy for on-time maturers. Maturity offset predictions correctly classified only 33.2% of players into early, on-time, or late maturation categories based on their menarcheal status. Including ethnicity did not meaningfully alter the findings.These results highlight limitations of PHV-based models, particularly for early and late-maturing girls. Sport-specific patterns of selection-such as the preference for later maturation in gymnastics-underscore the need for caution when applying these models in youth sport contexts.		[Karasiak, Fabio C.; Balbino Junior, Sandro; Soares, Andre L. A.; Lima, Ahlan B.; Carvalho, Humberto M.] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Sch Sports, Florianopolis, SC, Brazil; [Leonardi, Thiago J.] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Sul, Fac Phys Educ Phys Therapy & Dance, Porto Alegre, Brazil; [Mendes, Felipe G.] Univ Luxembourg, Dept Social Sci, Esch Sur Alzette, Luxembourg; [Goncalves, Carlos E.] Univ Coimbra, Fac Sport Sci & Phys Educ, Coimbra, Portugal; [Carvalho, Humberto M.] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Sch Sports, Florianopolis, SC, Brazil								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001626560400001	49	Article; Article		
J	Butler, David; Butler, Robert; Singleton, Carl								Objective Calls Under the Spotlight: Referee Consistency and Behaviour on Football's Biggest Stage								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				27	2			171	213		10.1177/15270025251396508			FEB 2026	2026	We study the objectivity of officiating under extreme pressure by analysing additional time played at the FIFA World Cup and UEFA European Championship. Controlling for within-match events, rules should be applied consistently across both halves of a match. However, we argue that second-half time allocations could be increased by greater social pressure, intensity, and stakes, as payoffs become imminent. Our analysis shows that, even after accounting for major stoppages - and despite identical rules - referees add substantially more time in the second half than the first. Moreover, referees allow more stoppage time when the scoreline is close in the second half, but only at the World Cup because tight contests are cut short there in the first halves. These discrepancies raise concerns about the effectiveness of time-wasting strategies in the sport. More broadly, our results contribute to the discussion of decision-making under pressure and implicit biases in high-stakes environments.		[Butler, David; Butler, Robert] Univ Coll Cork, Dept Econ, Cork, Ireland; [Singleton, Carl] Univ Stirling, Stirling Management Sch, Econ Div, Stirling, Scotland; [Singleton, Carl] IZA Inst Lab Econ, Bonn, Germany; [Butler, Robert] Univ Coll Cork, Dept Econ, Cork, Ireland								0							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001626098600001	56	Article; Article		
J	Ercan, Sabriye; Buyukluoglu, Gokhan; Buyukluoglu, Nihan; Ay Yildiz, Yeliz; Sevindik Aktas, Buket; Orscelik, Aydan								Cross-cultural adaptation and psychometric evaluation of the Mental Health Disorders Screening Instrument for Athletes in a Turkish sample								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				54	1			82	90		10.1080/00913847.2025.2592532			JAN 2 2026	2026	Objectives Screening instruments suitable for the early detection of mental health issues in athletes are limited. The aim of this study is to adapt the Mental Health Disorders Screening Instrument for Athletes (MHDSIA) into Turkish and evaluate its psychometric properties.Methods The adaptation process followed COSMIN guidelines. Language adaptation was performed using a forward-backward translation method, and content validity was evaluated with expert opinions. This cross-sectional methodological study included 251 volunteer athletes. Exploratory factor analysis and confirmatory factor analyses were employed for construct validity, and reliability was examined with the Cronbach's alpha coefficient. Criterion validity was tested against the Symptom Checklist 90-Revised (SCL-90-R), and sensitivity and specificity were evaluated via Receiver Operating Characteristic (ROC) curve analysis.Results The Turkish version of the MHDSIA demonstrated high internal consistency (Cronbach's Alpha = 0.864) and satisfactory content validity (I-CVI = 0.857-1.000; S-CVI = 0.969). EFA supported a single-factor structure, which was confirmed by CFA, with adequate goodness-of-fit indices (e.g. RMSEA = 0.074). The ROC analysis showed an AUC of 0.774 (p < 0.001), with an optimal cutoff point identified as 32, yielding sensitivity of 78.4% and specificity of 67.5%.ConclusionThe Turkish version of the MHDSIA was determined to be a valid and reliable screening instrument, and it has been demonstrated that it can be used as an effective method for assessing the mental health of athletes.		[Ercan, Sabriye] Suleyman Demirel Univ, Fac Med, Dept Sports Med, East Campus, TR-32260 Isparta, Turkiye; [Buyukluoglu, Gokhan; Orscelik, Aydan] Hlth Sci Univ, Gulhane Fac Med, Dept Sports Med, Ankara, Turkiye; [Buyukluoglu, Nihan] Golbasi Martyr Ahmet Ozsoy State Hosp, Dept Psychiat, Ankara Prov Hlth Directorate, Ankara, Turkiye; [Ay Yildiz, Yeliz] Alanya Alaaddin Keykubat Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Coaching Educ, Antalya, Turkiye; [Sevindik Aktas, Buket] Erzurum Tech Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Coaching Educ, Erzurum, Turkiye; [Ercan, Sabriye] Suleyman Demirel Univ, Fac Med, Dept Sports Med, East Campus, TR-32260 Isparta, Turkiye								0							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001625505600001	34	Article; Article		
J	Lindskog, Jakob; Liaghat, Behnam; Senorski, Rebecca Hamrin; Samuelsson, Kristian; Thomee, Roland; Senorski, Eric Hamrin								Strength recovery trajectories in young adults with and without generalized joint hypermobility during the first two years after anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction: a registry study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				77				54	61		10.1016/j.ptsp.2025.11.007			JAN 2026	2026	Objective: Compare muscle strength and hop performance trajectories between patients with and without generalized joint hypermobility (GJH) during the first two years after anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) reconstruction. Design: Retrospective study using prospective registry data. Setting: Rehabilitation-specific registry. Participants: 1223 patients (23.8 % GJH; mean age 22.5 +/- 5.2 years; 52 % female) underwent hamstring tendon (HT) or bone-patellar tendon-bone (BPTB) autograft ACL reconstruction. Main outcome measures: Quadriceps and hamstring strength limb symmetry index (LSI) and body weight-normalized strength, and vertical-, distance-, and 30-s side hop LSI at 10 weeks, 4, 8, 12, 18 months, and 2 years were analyzed. Linear mixed-effects models, adjusted for age and sex, compared trajectories stratified by autograft. Results: No differences in strength or hop performance trajectories were observed between groups. At 2 years, quadriceps and hamstrings LSIs were comparable (HT: quadriceps 99-100 %, hamstrings 99 %; BPTB: quadriceps 94-99 %, hamstrings 103-104 %). Conclusion: There was no difference in muscle strength recovery trajectories, evaluated as LSI and body weight-normalized strength for the quadriceps and hamstrings muscles, or in the vertical hop, hop for distance, and 30-s side hop test LSIs between patients with and without GJH during the first two years after ACL reconstruction, regardless of whether HT or BPTB was used.		[Lindskog, Jakob; Senorski, Rebecca Hamrin; Thomee, Roland; Senorski, Eric Hamrin] Univ Gothenburg, Dept Hlth & Rehabil, Unit Physiotherapy, Inst Neurosci & Physiol,Sahlgrenska Acad, Box 455, SE-40530 Gothenburg, Sweden; [Lindskog, Jakob; Senorski, Rebecca Hamrin; Samuelsson, Kristian; Senorski, Eric Hamrin] Sahlgrens Acad, Sahlgrenska Sports Med Ctr, Gothenburg, Sweden; [Liaghat, Behnam] Univ Southern Denmark, Ctr Muscle & Joint Hlth, Dept Sports Sci & Clin Biomech, Odense, Denmark; [Samuelsson, Kristian] Univ Gothenburg, Inst Clin Sci, Sahlgrenska Acad, Dept Orthopaed, Gothenburg, Sweden; [Samuelsson, Kristian] Sahlgrens Univ Hosp, Dept Orthopaed, Molndal, Sweden; [Lindskog, Jakob] Univ Gothenburg, Box 455, SE-40530 Gothenburg, Sweden								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001630360800002	45	Article; Article		
J	Lee, Junghoon; Jung, Inyoung; Cain, Christopher; Baloglu, Seyhmus								Exploring putting launch monitor data using the fsQCA method: A straight twelve-foot putt								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541251388814				2025	As technology advances, golf technologies, such as Quintic, are increasingly used to help golfers enhance their skills and build strength. However, despite the growing use of Quintic, studies related to Quintic in golf are still limited. Therefore, this study explores putting launch monitor results by employing a fuzzy-set qualitative comparative analysis (fsQCA) method. The study identified the causal relationships among putting performance variables based on the results of 52 golfers. All participants were adults, right-handed, and had a less than 12 handicap index. The assigned task was to complete a straight twelve-foot putt on artificial putting green without any slope. As a result, there was a solution with the significant effects of five variables: clubface angle at impact, clubhead path, low point, pre and post club acceleration on both outcome variables: the predicted position at twelve feet and the amount of skid. The findings highlight the use of technology in golf putting, offer putting instruction methods, and encourage the future scale development related to putting performance. Notably, the results provide practical solutions for aspiring professionals who are enrolled in professional golf management programs.		[Lee, Junghoon; Jung, Inyoung; Cain, Christopher; Baloglu, Seyhmus] Univ Nevada, William F Harrah Coll Hospitality, 4505 S Maryland Pkwy, Las Vegas, NV 89154 USA; [Lee, Junghoon] Univ Nevada, William F Harrah Coll Hospitality, 4505 S Maryland Pkwy, Las Vegas, NV 89154 USA								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001678147600001	64	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Pan, Hang; Fu, Shengxing; Zhou, Yulin; Li, Hanjun; Shi, Huijuan								Relationship between quadriceps strength performance and knee joint function during single-leg hop test in runners with patellofemoral pain☆								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				77				37	43		10.1016/j.ptsp.2025.11.009			JAN 2026	2026	Objectives: To investigate differences in isokinetic quadriceps strength and knee joint function during single-leg hop test between runners with patellofemoral pain (PFP) and healthy runners, and their relationship. Design: Controlled and correlational study. Setting: Biomechanics laboratory. Participants: 24 runners with PFP and 17 healthy individuals. Main outcome measures: Quadriceps torque and power were assessed by the isokinetic dynamometer. Kinematics and kinetics, including joint moment, power, and joint work were collected via 3D motion capture and force plates during the hop test. Group differences were tested with Two-way ANOVA, and Partial correlation assessed the relationship between quadriceps strength and hop biomechanics. Results: No group differences in quadriceps strength were identified (p >= 0.618). PFP group displayed increased hip work (p = 0.020) and contribution (p = 0.016), but reduced knee work contribution (p = 0.029) during single-leg hop test. Quadriceps strength correlated with knee function during the hop test in controls (r >= 0.485, p <= 0.048) but not in PFP group (r <= 0.287, p >= 0.208). Conclusions: Runners with PFP exhibited no quadriceps weakness but used a more hip-dominant strategy. Quadriceps strength was correlated with hop biomechanics in healthy individuals, but this relationship was disrupted in runners with PFP.		[Pan, Hang; Fu, Shengxing; Zhou, Yulin; Li, Hanjun; Shi, Huijuan] Beijing Sport Univ, Sch Sport Sci, Key Lab Performance Training & Recovery Gen Adm Sp, Beijing 100084, Peoples R China; [Shi, Huijuan] Beijing Sport Univ, Sch Sport Sci, Key Lab Performance Training & Recovery Gen Adm Sp, Beijing 100084, Peoples R China								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001630254800001	36	Article; Article		
J	Faltstrom, Anne; Hagglund, Martin; Ivarsson, Andreas; Kvist, Joanna								Personality traits and perfectionism in female and male soccer players with or without primary anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction: a cross-sectional study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				76				120	126		10.1016/j.ptsp.2025.09.015			NOV 2025	2025	Objective: To investigate differences in personality traits in female and male soccer players with or without primary anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction (ACLR) and between female and male players with ACLR. Design: Cross-sectional. Participants: 188 female and 58 male players two years after ACLR and 119 female and 107 male knee-healthy players. Main outcome measures: The Swedish universities Scales of Personality and the Sport Multidimensional Perfectionism Scale questionnaires. Results: Females with ACLR did not differ from females without ACLR in any personality trait. Males with ACLR scored slightly higher than males without ACLR for stress susceptibility (50.9 +/- 9.0 vs 47.8 +/- 8.0) and lack of assertiveness (50.3 +/- 8.9 vs 46.6 +/- 9.4), and slightly lower in adventure seeking (51.9 +/- 8.3 vs 55.1 +/- 8.0), personal standards (3.3 +/- 0.9 vs 3.7 +/- 0.7), concern over mistakes (2.6 +/- 0.9 vs 2.9 +/- 0.8), and perceived coach pressure (2.0 +/- 0.9 vs 2.4 +/- 0.9) (p <0.05, small-medium effect sizes). Females with ACLR scored higher than males with ACLR for psychic anxiety and social desirability and lower for detachment, physical trait aggression and perceived parental and coach pressure (p < 0.05, small-medium effect sizes). Conclusion: Personality traits do not differ between females and small differences in males with or without ACLR. Sex differences exist in personality in soccer players, but the clinical importance is unclear.		[Faltstrom, Anne] Ryhov Cty Hosp, Rehabil Ctr, S-55185 Jonkoping, Sweden; [Faltstrom, Anne; Hagglund, Martin; Kvist, Joanna] Linkoping Univ, Dept Hlth Med & Caring Sci, Unit Physiotherapy, S-58183 Linkoping, Sweden; [Ivarsson, Andreas] Halmstad Univ, Sch Hlth & Welf, Halmstad, Sweden; [Ivarsson, Andreas] Univ Agder, Dept Sport Sci & Phys Educ, Kristiansand, Norway; [Faltstrom, Anne] Ryhov Cty Hosp, Rehabil Ctr, S-55185 Jonkoping, Sweden								1							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001591177100001	36	Article; Article		
J	Nozu, Shojiro; Matsuda, Tadamitsu; Takazawa, Yuji								Center of mass displacement and lower limb kinematics during the side hop test in individuals with and without chronic ankle instability								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				76				50	55		10.1016/j.ptsp.2025.09.009			NOV 2025	2025	Objective To examine differences in center of mass (COM) displacement and joint kinematics during the side hop test (SHT) between individuals with and without chronic ankle instability (CAI). Design Cross-sectional study. Setting Biomechanics laboratory. Participants Twelve healthy individuals (age: 19.8 +/- 1.3 y; height: 162.6 +/- 10.0 cm; weight: 57.1 +/- 6.3 kg) and 12 with CAI (age: 20.0 +/- 1.3 y; height: 162.4 +/- 5.9 cm; weight: 55.7 +/- 6.9 kg). Main outcome measures SHT completion time, COM displacement, and ankle, knee, and hip joint angles in sagittal, frontal, and transverse planes during SHT. Statistical parametric mapping visualized between-group differences. Results The CAI group demonstrated significantly longer SHT times than the control group (Mean Difference: 1.4 s, p < 0.001). Vertical COM displacement was significantly lower in the CAI group during 10-16 % (p = 0.03) and 55-70 % (p = 0.006) of the SHT cycle. Hip flexion angles were significantly greater in the CAI group during 17-20 % (p = 0.04) and 57-72 % (p = 0.004). Conclusions Compared with healthy individuals, those with CAI exhibited longer SHT times, likely due to a characteristic movement pattern involving increased COM lowering and greater hip flexion during the landing phase.		[Nozu, Shojiro; Takazawa, Yuji] Juntendo Univ, Fac Hlth & Sports Sci, Inzai City, Chiba 2701695, Japan; [Matsuda, Tadamitsu] Juntendo Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Phys Therapy, Bunkyo Ku, Hongo, Tokyo, Japan; [Nozu, Shojiro; Takazawa, Yuji] Juntendo Univ, Fac Med, Dept Sports Med, Bunkyo Ku, Hongo, Tokyo, Japan; [Nozu, Shojiro] Juntendo Univ, 1-1 Hiraka Gakuendai, Inzai, Chiba 2701695, Japan								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001583192300001	30	Article; Article		
J	Puppyn, Nathan Fane Tanira; Hofmeyr, Stuart; Brughelli, Matt; Amdi, Christian Houmann								Validity and within-device reliability of the Metric application for assessing barbell velocity and displacement								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541251391967				2025	This study evaluated the validity and within-device reliability of the Metric smartphone application compared to a linear position transducer (LPT). Twenty-five resistance-trained participants (19 male, 6 female) completed incremental loading one-repetition maximum (1RM) assessments in the back squat, bench press, and deadlift. Mean concentric velocity (MCV) and displacement (CD) were measured simultaneously by two Metric devices and one GymAware LPT. The Metric application detected 94.3% of repetitions (F1-score: 0.971) compared to GymAware's 99.5% (F1-score: 0.997). Within-device reliability of Metric varied by exercise: highest in squat (MCV: ICC = 0.994, CV = 3.83%, SDC = 0.05 m/s [4.27% of 1RM]; CD: ICC = 0.991, CV = 1.53%, SDC = 0.02 m), then bench press (MCV: ICC = 0.981, CV = 7.57%, SDC = 0.08 m/s [6.38% of 1RM]; CD: ICC = 0.974, CV = 3.53%, SDC = 0.02 m), and lowest in deadlift (MCV: ICC = 0.941, CV = 13.29%, SDC = 0.13 m/s [14.05% of 1RM]; CD: ICC = 0.753, CV = 27.16%, SDC = 0.10 m). However, Metric did not meet our predetermined reliability criteria for velocity trackers (ICC >= 0.997, CV <= 3.5%). Substantial-to-perfect agreement between Metric and GymAware was found for squat MCV (CCC = 0.981-0.993), but only poor-to-moderate agreement for bench press and deadlift MCV (CCC = 0.866-0.946), and poor agreement across all exercises for CD (CCC < 0.768). While Metric offers a cost-effective and user-friendly alternative to LPTs, it cannot currently be recommended for research or practice where high precision is required.		[Puppyn, Nathan Fane Tanira; Hofmeyr, Stuart; Brughelli, Matt; Amdi, Christian Houmann] Auckland Univ Technol, Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand, 17 Antares Pl, Auckland 0632, New Zealand; [Amdi, Christian Houmann] Auckland Univ Technol, Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand, 17 Antares Pl, Auckland 0632, New Zealand								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001623124800001	59	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Maurus, Esther; Paul, Yannik; Mathes, Justus; Memmert, Daniel								Coordination pattern in 1-vs-1 situations in women's soccer								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541251395166				2025	Research on 1-vs-1 duels in soccer has primarily focused on men's football, leaving coordination dynamics in women's matches largely unexplored. This study aimed to analyze spatiotemporal patterns influencing duel outcomes in women's soccer. Fourteen semiprofessional female soccer players completed 120 1-vs-1 trials under match-realistic conditions. Player and ball trajectories were recorded using a Kinexon (c) tracking system (25 Hz) and analyzed for the key coordination variables spatial positioning, acceleration, and speed at two critical time points: the Initiating Moment (attacker's deviation from horizontal axis) and the Last Contact (final attacking action or clearance). Results indicated that greater interpersonal distance and high entry speed favored attacking success, whereas defensive success was linked to shorter distances, effective mirroring, and balanced speed control. Attacker acceleration alone, especially at the early phase, proved insufficient without pre-established speed. Exploratory heatmap analyses suggest spatial tendencies: successful attacks displayed broader lateral movement and exploited left-sided breakthroughs despite players' right-foot dominance, pointing to potential tactical asymmetries in defensive coverage. These findings underscore the importance of timing, spatial separation, and controlled speed rather than maximal acceleration alone. Practical implications include emphasizing entry speed, weaker-foot finishing, and defensive mirroring in training design. The study provides novel insights into women's 1-vs-1 duel dynamics and highlights gender-specific considerations for tactical and technical development.		[Maurus, Esther; Paul, Yannik; Mathes, Justus; Memmert, Daniel] German Sports Univ, Sportpk Mungersdorf 6, D-50933 Cologne, Germany; [Paul, Yannik] German Sports Univ, Sportpk Mungersdorf 6, D-50933 Cologne, Germany								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001622133900001	28	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Shinkai, Ryosuke; Nonaka, Yuki; Ando, Shintaro; Kizuka, Tomohiro; Ono, Seiji								Comparison of visual strategies between table tennis players of different skill levels in unpredictable rallies								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541251397161				2025	The purpose of this study was to clarify differences in visual strategies between table tennis players of two skill levels during unpredictable rallies, in which the direction of the ball is unpredictable on either the forehand or backhand side. Collegiate highly skilled and less-skilled table tennis players (n = 10, in each group) conducted rallies using either forehand or backhand strokes at a constant tempo (130 bpm). They were asked to aim at a circular target marked on the table. To evaluate hitting accuracy, we calculated the distance between the ball position and the center of the circular target, as well as its variability. We then analyzed the angle between the gaze and ball positions (gaze-ball angle) during rallies based on the images captured by an eye-tracking device. The results revealed that highly skilled players showed significantly higher hitting accuracy compared to less-skilled players during rallies. Our results also indicate that highly skilled players look away from the approaching ball earlier than less-skilled players, even in unpredictable rallies. However, horizontal gaze position during backhand strokes showed constant alignment with the ball, regardless of skill levels. Furthermore, the Pearson correlation analysis indicates that this expertise-related visual strategy by peripheral vision is significantly associated with superior hitting accuracy. Taken together, the visual strategy could influence skill levels and hitting accuracy in unpredictable table tennis rallies.		[Shinkai, Ryosuke; Nonaka, Yuki; Ando, Shintaro; Kizuka, Tomohiro; Ono, Seiji] Univ Tsukuba, Inst Hlth & Sport Sci, 1-1-1 Tennodai, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 3058574, Japan; [Ono, Seiji] Univ Tsukuba, Inst Hlth & Sport Sci, 1-1-1 Tennodai, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 3058574, Japan								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001622122600001	39	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Chainok, Phornpot; de Jesus, Karla; Mourao, Luis; Zacca, Rodrigo; da Fonseca, Pedro Filipe Pereira; Fernandes, Ricardo J.; Vilas-Boas, Joao Paulo								Biomechanical analysis of the backstroke to breaststroke turns in age-group swimmers								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541251396336				2025	Four different backstroke-to-breaststroke turns performed by age-group swimmers were evaluated in a quasi-experimental pre-post study before and after a four-week intervention program.Ten girls and ten boys (12.1 +/- 1.2 years old), from the same team and with regular competitive participation, performed three trials of each turn and were monitored using 12 aerial and 11 underwater Qualisys cameras plus two underwater tri-axial force plates. The 15 mpa#nbsp;-meter turning time improved over the intervention period for all turns (p < 0.01), with reductions of 5.3, 5.1, 4.9 and 4.8% for the somersault, open, crossover and bucket techniques. The highest improvement in mean time spent between pre- and post-intervention was found for the rotation phase (p < 0.01; 12.3-17.9%) and the fastest rotation of post-intervention was for the open turn (1.24 +/- 0.10 seconds). There were no observed differences in the wall contact phase across all turn groups. Four-week intervention program can assist learning and improving of backstroke to breaststroke turning techniques particularly in rotation phase. Findings suggest that the preferred turn technique is not always the better to be used and that age-group swimmers are able to optimize their turning performance through regular turning sessions.		[Chainok, Phornpot] Burapha Univ, Fac Sport Sci, 169 Long-Hard Bangsaen Rd, Chon Buri 20131, Thailand; [Chainok, Phornpot; Mourao, Luis] Univ Porto, Fac Sport, Ctr Res Educ Innovat & Intervent Sport CIFI2D, Porto, Portugal; Univ Fed Amazonas, Fac Phys Educ & Physiotherapy, Human Performance Lab, Manaus, AM, Brazil; [Mourao, Luis] Polytech Inst Porto, Super Inst Engn Porto, Porto, Portugal; [Zacca, Rodrigo] Univ Porto, Fac Sport, Res Ctr Phys Act Hlth & Leisure CIAFEL, FADEUP, Porto, Portugal; [Zacca, Rodrigo] Lab Integrat & Translat Res Populat Hlth ITR, Porto, Portugal; [Zacca, Rodrigo] Univ Porto FADEUP, Fac Sport, Lab Sport Physiol, Porto, Portugal; [Fernandes, Ricardo J.; Vilas-Boas, Joao Paulo] Univ Porto, Porto Biomech Lab LABIOMEP UP, Porto, Portugal; [Fernandes, Ricardo J.; Vilas-Boas, Joao Paulo] Univ Porto, Fac Sport, Ctr Res Educ Innovat & Intervent Sport CIFI2D, Porto, Portugal; [Chainok, Phornpot] Burapha Univ, Fac Sport Sci, 169 Long-Hard Bangsaen Rd, Chon Buri 20131, Thailand								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001623127600001	44	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Bonanno, Daniel R.; Vickery-Howe, Danielle M.; Ahn, Nayun; Menz, Hylton B.; McClelland, Jodie A.; Lam, Wing-Kai; Kennedy, Harry; Middleton, Kane J.								Effects of footwear collar height on lower-limb biomechanics during running and change-of-direction tasks in court-sport athletes								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				25	6			855	871		10.1080/14763141.2025.2590031			JUN 3 2026	2026	Collar height is a distinctive feature of court-sport footwear, yet its biomechanical effects remain underexplored. This study compared the effect of low-cut and high-cut footwear on lower-limb biomechanics during straight-line running and change-of-direction tasks in court-sport athletes (11 females, 11 males). During straight-line running, reduced ankle dorsiflexion (32-77% of gait cycle, mean difference [MD]: 2.6 degrees) and toe-out angles (46-76%, MD: 2 degrees), and increased knee abduction angles (14-20%, MD: 0.9 degrees) were observed in high-cut footwear. During the change-of-direction task, reduced ankle dorsiflexion (28-64%, MD: 2.8 degrees) and rearfoot inversion angles (72-87%, MD: 2.6 degrees) were observed in high-cut footwear. Independent of collar height, female participants exhibited greater knee abduction angles during running (79-100%, MD: 5 degrees), while they exhibited smaller knee flexion (38-49%, MD: 7.3 degrees; and, 65-82%, MD: 9.6 degrees), hip abduction angles (36-97%, MD: 8.6 degrees), reduced knee extension moments (54-82%, MD: 0.8 Nm/kg), and greater hip abduction moments (33-40%, MD: 0.9 Nm/kg) during the change-of-direction task. Overall, our findings indicate that low-cut footwear allowed greater ankle mobility, while high-cut designs limited rearfoot inversion during lateral movements. Hip and knee biomechanics were similar across collar heights, but sex-based differences existed. Footwear collar selection should reflect common playing demands and individual biomechanics.		[Bonanno, Daniel R.; Menz, Hylton B.; Kennedy, Harry] La Trobe Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Human Serv & Sport, Discipline Podiatry, Melbourne, Australia; [Vickery-Howe, Danielle M.; Ahn, Nayun; Middleton, Kane J.] La Trobe Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Human Serv & Sport, Sport Performance & Nutr Res Grp, Melbourne, Australia; [McClelland, Jodie A.] La Trobe Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Human Serv & Sport, Discipline Physiotherapy, Melbourne, Australia; [Lam, Wing-Kai] Hong Kong Baptist Univ, Acad Wellness & Human Dev, Fac Arts & Social Sci, Dept Sports & Hlth Sci, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [Bonanno, Daniel R.] La Trobe Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Human Serv & Sport, Discipline Podiatry, Melbourne, Australia								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001622055200001	38	Article; Article		
J	Ruberti, Massimo; La Martina, Andrea								Alcohol-free branding in formula one: stealth marketing strategy or something more?								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				27	2			450	472		10.1108/IJSMS-04-2025-0135			MAY 8 2026	2026	PurposeThis paper studies how alcohol sponsors in Formula One (F1) adapt their branding strategies across changeable regulatory environments. It enquires whether alcohol-free activations exclusively serve as compliance devices or, on the contrary, as deliberate stealth and alibi strategies that ensure parent-brand visibility and cultural meaning.Design/methodology/approachWe conducted a visual-content analysis of the complete broadcast footage from all the 22 Grands Prix of the 2023 F1 season, using a one-minute interval coding protocol. The analysis captured the frequency and type of brand exposure, differentiating between alcoholic and alcohol-free variants and documented the use of responsibility slogans.FindingsDespite a variable legal background, alcohol-related branding is becoming more prevalent in F1 broadcasts. The analysis reveals a noticeable shift in sponsorship content towards alcohol-free variants and responsibility messages, which often coexist with - and sometimes replace - explicit alcohol promotion. When interpreted through the relevant marketing frameworks, these activations operate both as stealth cues (low-salience, repeated exposures that reduce audience persuasion knowledge activation) and alibi devices (line extensions and shared semiotics that sustain parent-brand equity across jurisdictions).Originality/valueBy combining exhaustive season-long broadcast coding with a theory-driven interpretive framework, this study provides the first systematic cross-jurisdictional analysis of alcohol-free branding in F1. It contributes to sport marketing scholarship by integrating stealth and alibi perspectives and offers practical insights for regulators, rights-holders and public health stakeholders concerned with surrogate sponsorship and hidden promotion.		[Ruberti, Massimo] Univ Milano Bicocca, Milan, Italy; [La Martina, Andrea] ESCP, Paris, France; [Ruberti, Massimo] Univ Milano Bicocca, Milan, Italy								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001618987200001	64	Article; Article		
J	Kreitner, Liga A.; Crowley, Eric M.; Hentz, Roland C.; Wi, Chung Il; Soma, David B.								Socioeconomic status and concussion recovery in young athletes								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				53	6			500	506		10.1080/00913847.2025.2590420			NOV 2 2025	2025	Objectives: Socioeconomic status (SES) may be associated with time to return to play (RTP) after sport-related concussion (SRC), but the literature is limited and has yielded mixed results. The purpose of our study was to determine the association between SES and concussion recovery in high school and middle school athletes.<br /> Methods: High school and middle school athletes from 24 schools in southeast Minnesota who sustained a SRC between 2020 and 2023 were included in this study. Data obtained for each concussion included date of injury and date of clearance to complete a RTP protocol. A validated measure of SES, HOUSES (HOUsing-based index of SES), was used to determine SES by pairing home addresses to publicly available property data. SES was divided into four quartiles determined for the region (Q1 = lowest SES quartile, Q4 = highest SES quartile). A negative-bimodal regression model was used to analyze the relationship between SES and RTP time.<br /> Results: A total of 132 athletes (mean age 15.9 +/- 1.5 years, 75.0% male) were included in the study. Among the total cohort, median RTP time was 12.0 days. Within each HOUSES quartile, median RTP time was 16 days in Q1, 12 days in Q2, 13 days in Q3, and 11 days in Q4. After adjusting for sex, race, ethnicity, and prior diagnosis of migraines, attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder, learning disorder, and mood disorder, athletes were estimated to have 23.9% fewer recovery days for each 1-unit increase in HOUSES quartile (p < 0.001)<br /> Conclusion: RTP time after concussion may be related to SES in young athletes, with higher SES associated with shorter RTP timelines.		[Kreitner, Liga A.] Mayo Clin, Dept Phys Med & Rehabil, 200 First Street SW, Rochester, MN 55905 USA; [Crowley, Eric M.; Soma, David B.] Mayo Clin, Dept Orthoped, Div Sports Med, Rochester, MN USA; [Hentz, Roland C.] Mayo Clin, Dept Quantitat Hlth Sci, Div Clin Trials & Biostat, Rochester, MN USA; [Wi, Chung Il; Soma, David B.] Mayo Clin, Dept Community Pediat & Adolescent Med, Rochester, MN 55944 USA; [Kreitner, Liga A.] Mayo Clin, Dept Phys Med & Rehabil, 200 First Street SW, Rochester, MN 55905 USA								1							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001618190600001	30	Article; Article		
J	Gansukh, Maral-Erdene; Ando, Yuka; Sakurai, Shinji								Quantitative analysis of angular momentum generation in the triple loop in figure skating								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				25	6			827	840		10.1080/14763141.2025.2586761			JUN 3 2026	2026	Whole-body Angular momentum (AM) is a key factor for jump execution and landing stability in figure skating. However, its generation mechanism in the triple loop (T-LP) remain underexplored. The aim of this study was to address this gap by analysing the segmental contributions to angular momentum generation. Ten female skaters performed the T-LP while undergoing three-dimensional motion analysis. Although the AM increased first due to the contribution of the upper limbs during the glide phase, the AM of the lower limbs increased more significantly during the transition phase, with a particularly notable contribution from the non-supporting leg. A slight reduction in AM was observed during the Pivot phase just before take-off. These findings suggest that, unlike off-ice jumps where AM is typically generated by the arms and trunk, T-LP on ice involves a different strategy. Furthermore, no significant correlation was found between AM at take-off and key jump performance parameter such as jump height, rotational velocity, or flight time. This suggests that optimal jump execution requires coordinated integration of other biomechanical factors, including take-off mechanics and aerial posture control. These insights may aid in refining training strategies and optimising jump mechanics in figure skating.		[Gansukh, Maral-Erdene] Chukyo Univ, Grad Sch Hlth & Sports Sci, Kaizu Cho, Toyota, Japan; [Ando, Yuka] Wakayama Med Univ, Inst Sports Sci & Environm Physiol, Wakayama, Japan; [Sakurai, Shinji] Chukyo Univ, Sch Hlth & Sports Sci, Kaizu Cho, Toyota, Japan; [Gansukh, Maral-Erdene] Chukyo Univ, Grad Sch Hlth & Sports Sci, Kaizu Cho, Toyota, Japan								1							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001617053900001	24	Article; Article		
J	Gregorace, Josh, I; Nelson, Maximillian J.; Greenham, Grace E.; Bellenger, Clint R.								The association between elite Australian football game-centric technical skills and running demands								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541251396333				2025	This study investigated the association between game-centric technical skills and running demands in elite male Australian football (AF). Gameplay running demands were analysed via global positioning system (GPS) technology for 43 professional male AF players from a single elite male AF club across 37 individual matches during the 2021 and 2022 Australian Football League seasons. Game-centric technical skill performance statistics were obtained from ChampionData (R). The majority of game-centric technical skills had no association with running demands in elite male AF. However, some game-centric technical skills were associated with some GPS variables during elite AF gameplay. Main findings include negative associations between: uncontested statistics and accelerometry based variables (p < 0.001 between reference team uncontested marks and acceleration and deceleration distance), and positive associations between: uncontested statistics and running demands (p < 0.001 between uncontested possession percentage and relative total distance), and contested statistics and accelerometry-based variables (p < 0.001 between pre-clearance disposals and acceleration distance). Overall, these findings indicate that many game-centric factors may not have a large impact on gameplay running demands in AF, but certain variables indicate that the technical skills of the reference team may be more impactful on running demands than that of the opposition team.		[Gregorace, Josh, I; Nelson, Maximillian J.; Greenham, Grace E.; Bellenger, Clint R.] Univ South Australia, Alliance Res Exercise Nutr & Act ARENA, UniSA Allied Hlth & Human Performance, Adelaide, SA, Australia; [Gregorace, Josh, I] Univ South Australia, UniSA Allied Hlth & Human Performance, Alliance Res Exercise Nutr & Act ARENA, Corner North Terrace & Frome Rd, Adelaide, SA 5001, Australia								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001618581300001	36	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Zhao, Yihua; Chen, Xiaofeng								From global to local: a semiotic analysis of lululemon's sport marketing symbol system evolution in China								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				27	2			390	409		10.1108/IJSMS-04-2025-0167			MAY 8 2026	2026	PurposeThis study develops a process model of symbolic glocalization to explain how multinational corporations manage the evolution of their brand meaning in culturally distinct markets. Focusing on lululemon in China (2013-2024), we analyze how the brand navigated the tension between global consistency and local resonance to reconfigure its symbolic system.Design/methodology/approachAdopting a longitudinal single-case study design, this research utilizes the Gioia method to systematically analyze a rich dataset, including semi-structured interviews and over a decade of digital communications. We then employ semiotic theory as an interpretive lens to theorize the emergent data structure, deconstructing the evolution of the brand's sign system (signifier, signified and myth).FindingsOur analysis reveals a four-phase process of symbolic evolution: (1) Cultural exploration, where the brand observes local culture, (2) Cultural decoding, where it identifies resonant symbols, (3) Cultural encoding, where it integrates these symbols into its brand narrative and (4) Cultural feedback, where local adaptations inform global brand identity. This process marks a strategic shift from one-way meaning projection to a dynamic, co-created cultural dialogue.Originality/valueThis paper contributes a process theory of symbolic glocalization, advancing the literature beyond static depictions of brand adaptation. By integrating the rigor of the Gioia method with the interpretive depth of semiotics, we offer a novel framework for understanding how brand meaning is dynamically negotiated over time. Practically, our four-phase model provides managers with a strategic roadmap for building culturally resonant brand narratives.		[Zhao, Yihua] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Econ & Management, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Chen, Xiaofeng] Shanghai Business Sch, Coll Sports & Hlth, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Chen, Xiaofeng] Shanghai Business Sch, Coll Sports & Hlth, Shanghai, Peoples R China								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001613963300001	62	Article; Article		
J	Charbonneau, Eve; Romeas, Thomas; Ross, Annie; Begon, Mickael								Including visual criteria into predictive simulation of acrobatics to enhance the realism of optimal techniques								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				25	5			726	748		10.1080/14763141.2025.2577924			MAY 4 2026	2026	Although trampolinists rely heavily on visual cues, visual criteria have not been introduced into predictive simulations yet. We aimed to introduce visual criteria into predictive simulations of the backward somersault with a twist and the double backward somersault in pike position including 1 1/2 twists in the first somersault and 1/2 twist in the second somersault to generate innovative and safe optimal acrobatic techniques. A gradient of different weightings, ranging from none to large visual weights, was tested to find a good compromise between visual vs kinematics objectives. Four international coaches and two international judges assessed animations of the optimal techniques and of an elite athlete's technique, providing insights into the acceptability of the optimal techniques. For the most complex acrobatics, coaches found all optimal techniques more efficient for aerial twist creation. However, they perceived them as less safe, less realistic, similarly aesthetic, and similarly appropriate for visual information intake compared with the athlete's technique. Judges assigned fewer deductions to the simulated techniques than to the athlete's performance. The optimal techniques with visual criteria were more similar to the athlete's technique, highlighting the importance of including visual criteria into the optimisation of acrobatics to create innovative techniques that athletes will be able to use.		[Charbonneau, Eve; Begon, Mickael] Univ Montreal, Fac Med, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Charbonneau, Eve; Romeas, Thomas] Inst Natl Sport Quebec, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Romeas, Thomas] Univ Montreal, Sch Optometry, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Ross, Annie] Polytech Montreal, Mech Engn, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Begon, Mickael] CHU St Justine, Azrieli Res Ctr, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Charbonneau, Eve] Univ Montreal, Fac Med, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Charbonneau, Eve] Inst Natl Sport Quebec, Montreal, PQ, Canada								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001613299000001	33	Article; Article		
J	Altarriba-Bartes, Albert; Pena, Javier; Puig-Povill, Meritxell; Coma-Bau, Jordi; Calleja-Gonzalez, Julio; Vicens-Bordas, Jordi								Post-game recovery strategies in elite female soccer: A cross-sectional survey of Spanish first and second division teams								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541251390501				2025	To ensure optimal recovery, a broad range of techniques exist and are used by soccer players. Nevertheless, the body of research on the use of recovery strategies in elite women's soccer remains limited, particularly when contrasted with the more extensive evidence available in men's soccer. Therefore, the objective of this study was to describe and characterize the post-game recovery strategies adopted by top-level female teams. Data were collected from all Spanish women's soccer teams competing in the "Liga F" and "Primera Federaci & oacute;n" (n = 33) during the 2023-2024 and 2024-2025 seasons. The strength and conditioning coach of each team responded once to a five-section online survey. The findings revealed variability in protocols, timings, and recovery strategies among teams. However, natural and physical recovery strategies such as sleep/nap, food/fluid replacement, use of supplementation, massage, and foam rolling were the most frequently used among thirty-one teams (>94%). Additionally, thirty teams (>91%) periodized and combined multiple recovery methods in accordance with scientific recommendations. Thirteen teams (39%) acknowledged not individualizing recovery, whereas the other twenty considered various parameters, with prior personal experiences being the most influential factor. Despite the focus on female players, only eight teams (24%) accounted for the menstrual cycle in their recovery plan. Furthermore, the differences observed between first and second-division teams in the number of recovery strategies used, were not statistically significant (p = 0.771). This study provides a current and comprehensive overview of the use of post-game recovery strategies by Spanish elite female soccer teams. Currently, no consensus exists regarding the strategies employed or the parameters considered by many of the surveyed teams. Furthermore, this article aims to provide a descriptive analysis with pertinent contextual information tailoring a general profile of the recovery protocols mainly used in female players professional settings.		[Altarriba-Bartes, Albert; Pena, Javier; Coma-Bau, Jordi; Vicens-Bordas, Jordi] Univ Vic, Cent Univ Catalonia, Sport Exercise & Human Movement SEaHM, Barcelona, Spain; [Altarriba-Bartes, Albert; Pena, Javier; Puig-Povill, Meritxell; Coma-Bau, Jordi; Vicens-Bordas, Jordi] Univ Vic, Cent Univ Catalonia, UV UCC Sport & Phys Act Studies Ctr CEEAF, Barcelona, Spain; [Calleja-Gonzalez, Julio] Univ Basque Country UPV EHU, Fac Educ & Sport, Dept Phys Educ & Sports, Vitoria, Spain; [Altarriba-Bartes, Albert] Univ Vic, Cent Univ Catalonia, Sport & Phys Act Studies Ctr CEEAF, C Antoni Vila Canellas S-N, Barcelona 08500, Spain								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001612883600001	79	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Koga, Daiki; Tsunokawa, Takaaki; Kawai, Eisuke; Nakazono, Yusaku; Sengoku, Yasuo; Takagi, Hideki								Relationship between 3D lower-limb kinematics and foot propulsive force during breaststroke kicking								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				25	5			773	790		10.1080/14763141.2025.2580379			MAY 4 2026	2026	In breaststroke, leg kick propulsion plays a major role in swimming velocity; however, the relationship between propulsive force and its kinematics remains underexplored. This study aimed to identify leg movements that enhance foot propulsive force. Fourteen male swimmers performed 10 seconds of maximal-effort breaststroke kicks while holding a board with their upper limbs in a swimming flume. Leg kinematics and foot propulsive force were measured using a motion-capture system and eight pressure sensors on the left foot. During the knee extension phase, foot propulsive force correlated significantly with hip adduction/abduction range of motion (ROM) (r = -0.57), ankle plantar/dorsiflexion ROM (r = 0.59), mean plantar/dorsiflexion angular velocity (r = 0.56), peak knee extension angular velocity (r = -0.54), and peak ankle plantar flexion angular velocity (r = 0.59). In the insweep phase, foot propulsive force correlated significantly with foot resultant speed (r = 0.89), foot forward-backward velocity (r = 0.79), and foot vertical velocity (r = 0.71). This study suggests that during the knee extension phase, adjustments in ROM and increases in angular velocity of lower limb joints are associated with greater foot propulsive force, while higher foot velocity is associated with increased propulsive force during the insweep phase.		[Koga, Daiki] Inst Sci Tokyo, Sch Engn, Dept Syst & Control Engn, Tokyo, Japan; [Tsunokawa, Takaaki; Kawai, Eisuke; Nakazono, Yusaku; Sengoku, Yasuo; Takagi, Hideki] Univ Tsukuba, Fac Hlth & Sport Sci, Tsukuba, Japan; [Kawai, Eisuke] Int Budo Univ, Fac Phys Educ, Katsuura, Japan; [Koga, Daiki] Inst Sci Tokyo, Sch Engn, Dept Syst & Control Engn, Tokyo, Japan								1							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001610921000001	37	Article; Article		
J	Geldenhuys, A. Grethe; Roche, Stephen; Hendricks, Sharief; Burgess, Theresa								Return to contact criteria and assessment methods following traumatic anterior glenohumeral joint dislocations in rugby union players: a Delphi consensus study								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				54	1			48	62		10.1080/00913847.2025.2583052			JAN 2 2026	2026	ObjectivesTraumatic anterior glenohumeral joint dislocations are associated with prolonged time loss and high rates of reinjury in rugby. This is particularly common during contact events. There is a lack of clear guidance to facilitate return to contact decisions following these injuries in rugby. The aim of the study was to identify and reach consensus (>= 70% agreement) regarding return to contact criteria and assessment methods following traumatic anterior glenohumeral joint dislocations in rugby union players.MethodsA three-round Delphi consensus study was conducted.ResultsThirty-three health and sport practitioners participated in Round 1. Round 2 and 3 were completed by 28 and 26 practitioners respectively. Thirty criteria reached consensus for inclusion. These criteria included time frames, subjective ratings (including pain, apprehension, and player readiness) and clinical criteria (including clinical stability). Functional criteria such as range of motion, muscle function and proprioception of the glenohumeral joint, and fitness were also recommended for inclusion. In addition, assessment of rugby specific skills were recommended. Modalities reaching consensus to evaluate subjective criteria such as pain included Visual Analogue Scale ratings, specific questions, and palpation. The anterior apprehension and relocation test was recommended for clinical stability, whereas observation of functional movements was recommended to evaluate shoulder function.ConclusionA comprehensive range of clinical, functional, subjective, and sport specific criteria and assessment methods should be considered alongside time frames to guide return to contact decisions following traumatic anterior glenohumeral joint dislocations in rugby union players.		[Geldenhuys, A. Grethe; Burgess, Theresa] Univ Cape Town, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Hlth & Rehabil Sci, Div Physiotherapy, Cape Town, South Africa; [Roche, Stephen] Univ Cape Town, Groote Schuur Hosp, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Orthopaed Res Unit,Fac Hlth Sci, Cape Town, South Africa; [Hendricks, Sharief] Univ Cape Town, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Human Biol, Div Physiol Sci, Cape Town, South Africa; [Hendricks, Sharief] Leeds Beckett Univ, Inst Sport Phys Act & Leisure, Carnegie Appl Rugby Res CARR Ctr, Leeds, England; [Geldenhuys, A. Grethe] Univ Cape Town, Dept Hlth & Rehabil Sci, Fac Hlth Sci, Groote Schuur Hosp,Div Physiotherapy, Old Main Bldg, ZA-7925 Cape Town, South Africa								0							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001609500200001	70	Article; Article		
J	Gomez-Carmona, Carlos D.; Mancha-Triguero, David; Lopez-Sierra, Pablo; Ibanez, Sergio J.								External and internal load responses based on court size and opponent presence in elite-level basketball: An observational study with implications for training design								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541251389520				2025	Basketball training design requires systematic manipulation of task constraints to optimize performance adaptations. This study investigated how court size and opponent presence influence external and internal load responses in professional basketball players. Fifteen players from a top-tier Spanish league team were monitored during eighteen training sessions using ultra-wideband tracking, inertial sensors, and heart rate telemetry. Linear mixed model adjusted for players as random factor with Bonferroni post-hoc was performed. Based on court size, full-court conditions demonstrated higher values with large effect in total distance (p < 0.01; omega(2)(p) = 0.15), moderate effect in high-intensity distance (p < 0.01; omega(2)(p) = 0.13), and small effect in all analyzed variables (p < 0.01; omega(2)(p) = 0.02-0.04), except total accelerations/decelerations with higher values in half-court conditions (p < 0.01; omega(2)(p) = 0.03). The presence of opponents significantly increased high-intensity impacts (p < 0.01; omega(2)(p) = 0.04), maximum accelerations/decelerations (p < 0.01; omega(2)(p) = 0.02), and internal load responses (HRMAX: p < 0.01, omega(2)(p) = 0.05; > 90% HRMAX: p < 0.01, omega(2)(p) = 0.08). Only higher values in without opponent condition were found in total distance (p < 0.01; omega(2)(p) = 0.02). Statistical analysis also revealed significant interactions between court size and opponent presence (p < 0.01; omega(2)(p) = 0.01-0.05). These findings provide crucial insights for coaches and practitioners, demonstrating the importance of systematically manipulating court dimensions and opponent presence for managing internal and external workload throughout the season.		[Gomez-Carmona, Carlos D.; Mancha-Triguero, David; Lopez-Sierra, Pablo; Ibanez, Sergio J.] Univ Extremadura, Res Grp Optimizat Training & Sports Performance, Badajoz, Spain; [Gomez-Carmona, Carlos D.] Univ Zaragoza, Res Grp Training Phys Act & Sports Performance, Zaragoza, Spain; [Gomez-Carmona, Carlos D.] Univ Murcia, BioVetMed & SportSci Res Grp, Murcia, Spain; [Mancha-Triguero, David] Univ CEU Fernando III, CEU Univ, Bormujos, Spain; [Gomez-Carmona, Carlos D.] Univ Zaragoza, Fac Human & Social Sci, C Atarazanas 4, Teruel 44003, Spain								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001611676300001	37	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Bernini, Andrea; Dubreucq-Perus, Corentin								Winning at Home? Gender Inequality, Corruption, and the Host Country's Olympic Success								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				27	1			57	87		10.1177/15270025251386403			JAN 2026	2026	The host country effect - where nations typically perform better when hosting the Olympic Games - is a well-documented phenomenon. However, its magnitude may be shaped by institutional and societal factors. This paper investigates how corruption and gender inequality moderate the host country advantage using a panel dataset covering all Summer and Winter Olympic Games from 2000 to 2022. We analyze their effects on athlete participation, medal counts, and the conversion rate of athletes to medals, with a particular focus on gender disparities. Our findings show that higher levels of corruption and gender inequality are associated to weaker Olympic performance, especially for female athletes and in the Summer Games, as shown by smaller benefits of hosting. These results highlight the critical role of transparent governance and gender equity in maximizing the returns of hosting international sporting events.		[Bernini, Andrea] Univ Oxford, Dept Econ, Oxford OX1 3UQ, England; [Dubreucq-Perus, Corentin] Bocconi Univ, Dept Econ, Milan, Italy; [Bernini, Andrea] Univ Oxford, Dept Econ, Oxford OX1 3UQ, England								0							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001607832400001	26	Article; Article		
J	Batista, Natanael P.; Murray, Amanda M.; Norte, Grant E.; Glaviano, Neal R.; Kothari, Jaini H.; Streetman, Emma G.; Geers, Andrew L.; Bazett-Jones, David M.								Test-related psychological responses and quadriceps neuromuscular outcomes in people with and without patellofemoral pain								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				76				169	176		10.1016/j.ptsp.2025.10.041			NOV 2025	2025	Objectives: To investigate test-related psychological responses during quadriceps neuromuscular assessments in individuals with and without patellofemoral pain (PFP), and examine their relationship with test outcomes. Design: Cross-sectional study. Setting: Laboratory. Participants: Forty-six individuals (23 with PFP, 23 pain-free controls). Main outcome measures: We assessed knee extension peak torque, early and late rate of torque development (RTD) during maximal voluntary isometric contractions (MVICs). Central activation ratio was assessed using the superimposed burst (SIB) technique, and active motor threshold using transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS). Psychological responses (discomfort, thigh pain, knee pain, anxiety, and fear) were rated on a 0-100 visual analogue scale for each test. Results: Compared to controls, the PFP group reported greater discomfort (adjusted p = 0.007) and knee pain (adjusted p = 0.007) during MVICs, and greater knee pain during SIB (adjusted p = 0.011) and TMS (adjusted p = 0.011). There were no significant correlations between test-related psychological responses and test outcomes. Conclusions: Psychological responses were generally similar between groups, except that those with PFP reported greater knee pain in all tests. Although elevated in both groups, these responses were not significantly associated with poorer test outcomes. These findings support the utility of these assessments and underscore the importance of monitoring patient comfort during testing.		[Batista, Natanael P.; Murray, Amanda M.; Kothari, Jaini H.; Streetman, Emma G.] Univ Toledo, Sch Exercise & Rehabil Sci, Hlth & Human Serv, Stop 1199,201 W Bancroft St, Toledo, OH 43606 USA; [Batista, Natanael P.] Univ Estadual Campinas, Ctr Biomed Engn, Neural Engn Res Lab, Campinas, SP, Brazil; [Norte, Grant E.] Univ Cent Florida, Inst Exercise Physiol & Rehabil Sci, Orlando, FL USA; [Glaviano, Neal R.] Univ Connecticut, Dept Kinesiol, Storrs, CT USA; [Geers, Andrew L.] Univ Toledo, Dept Psychol, Toledo, OH USA; [Bazett-Jones, David M.] High Point Univ, Congdon Sch Hlth Sci, Dept Hlth & Human Performance, High Point, NC USA; [Batista, Natanael P.] 163 Alexander Fleming St 163, Campinas, SP, Brazil								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001613945500001	41	Article; Article		
J	Cossin, Marion; Schmidt, Pierre; Gilet, Flavie; Parent, Gerald; Menard, Anne-Laure; Mathieu, Yves; Wagnac, Eric								Reducing lumbar spine loading in Russian bar porters: a case study								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				25	5			749	762		10.1080/14763141.2025.2578348			MAY 4 2026	2026	The Russian bar is an acrobatic circus discipline characterised by dynamic loading on a single shoulder, posing a risk for back injuries. The aim of this case study was to quantify and compare lumbar spine loads in porters using a novel symmetrical design and the traditional asymmetrical bar. Two male porters and one female flyer performed a series of candle jumps, saltos, and consecutive jumps using both bar designs. Motion capture, electromyography, and musculoskeletal modelling in OpenSim were used to quantify L4-L5 intervertebral forces and moments. Statistical comparisons were conducted using a multifactorial analysis of variance (ANOVA). The results showed that the symmetrical bar significantly reduced lumbar spine bending moments (2.1 times lower) and shear forces (2.2 times lower) compared to the traditional bar, with no significant differences in shoulder forces. Shoulder forces did not differ significantly between bar types, suggesting that the flyer's performance, particularly jump height, was not substantially affected by the change in bar design. This novel symmetric bar design may enhance the safety and carrier of Russian bar porters. Future research should investigate the long-term effects of this design and its impact on performance adaptation.		[Cossin, Marion; Schmidt, Pierre] Ecole Natl Cirque, HUPR, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Gilet, Flavie; Wagnac, Eric] Ecole Technol Super, Dept Mech Engn, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Parent, Gerald; Menard, Anne-Laure] Cegep Lanaudiere, INEDI, Terrebonne, PQ, Canada; [Mathieu, Yves] Cegep St Jerome, CDCQ, St Jerome, PQ, Canada; [Wagnac, Eric] CIUSSS NIM Ctr Integre Univ Sante & Serv Sociaux N, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Cossin, Marion] Ecole Natl Cirque, HUPR, Montreal, PQ, Canada								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001607512900001	19	Article; Article		
J	Schmitz, Holly A.; Mettler, Jeff; Derrick, Timothy R.								Iliotibial band strain while running around a curve								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				25	5			713	725		10.1080/14763141.2025.2573132			MAY 4 2026	2026	The iliotibial band (ITB) stabilises the hip and knee joints during running, but excessive strain can lead to iliotibial band syndrome (ITBS), a common overuse injury in runners. This study aimed to determine if running around a curve influences ITB strain using a musculoskeletal model with active and passive ITB strands. Sixteen runners completed trials running straight and around a curve, with kinematic and ground reaction force data collected. An ITB model incorporating gluteus maximus and tensor fascia latae muscles, along with a passive strand, was used. Peak strain values during the stance phase were averaged across subjects. Results indicated no significant peak strain differences in active muscle strands between conditions. However, the peak passive strand strain was significantly higher with the leg on the inside of the curve (4.69%) compared to the outside curve condition (4.49%) (p = .009, eta 2 = 0.454), but not significantly different from the straight path condition. When running around a curve, this may put the inside leg at a higher risk of developing ITBS when compared to the outside leg. Further research is needed to explore the long-term effects of curved running on ITB strain and potential injury prevention strategies.		[Schmitz, Holly A.; Mettler, Jeff; Derrick, Timothy R.] Iowa State Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Ames, IA 50011 USA; [Mettler, Jeff] Augustana Coll, Dept Kinesiol, Rock Isl, IL USA; [Schmitz, Holly A.] Iowa State Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Ames, IA 50011 USA								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001606507000001	35	Article; Article		
J	Gu, Li; Fu, Ming; Niu, Jian-Jun; Huang, Zhi-Wei; Hua, Li-Ping								The Association Between Exercise and Cognitive Function in Chinese Middle-Aged and Older Adults: Exploration of Mediating Factors								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				24	4			910	933		10.52082/jssm.2025.910			DEC 2025	2025	Cognitive decline is a significant challenge for middle-aged and elderly individuals. The association of exercise with cognitive decline is inconsistent and may be influenced by many physiological factors. This study aimed to explore the mediating factors in the relationship between physical exercise and cognitive decline. This prospective cohort study included 3,153 middle-aged and older adults with normal baseline cognitive function (2011) in the tive decline was assessed after four years (2015). Exercise level was assessed by exercise intensity, frequency, and metabolic equivalent. The results showed that any level of exercise intensity or frequency was associated with decreased risk of cognitive decline, but the association was stronger in subjects >= 60 years or males. Vigorous exercise might positively correlate with cognitive decline through reducing body mass index, and this association was mainly present in females. In conclusion, active exercise is positively associated with cognitive function in middle-aged and elderly adults. Exercise may affect cognitive function through body mass index, but the specific mechanisms require further investigation.		[Gu, Li] Suzhou Polytech Univ, Int Educ Pk, Suzhou, Jiangsu, Peoples R China; [Fu, Ming; Niu, Jian-Jun; Hua, Li-Ping] Shandong First Med Univ & Shandong Acad Med Sci, 619 Changcheng Rd, Tai An, Shandong, Peoples R China; [Huang, Zhi-Wei] Nanhai Publ Hlth Hosp, Foshan Nanhai Mental Hlth Ctr, Foshan, Guangdong, Peoples R China; [Hua, Li-Ping] Shandong First Med Univ & Shandong Acad Med Sci, 619 Changcheng Rd, Tai An, Shandong, Peoples R China								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001607185600001	32	Article; Article		
J	Guo, Zhenxiang; Jiang, Leyi; Liu, Chunlong; Yang, Zhihua; Qin, Shenglei; Jiang, Dongting; Bao, Dapeng; Dai, Jin; Liu, Haoyang								Using Inertial Measurement Units to Quantify External Load in Men's Singles Badminton Matches: Insights from Set Outcomes and Score Gaps								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				24	4			901	909		10.52082/jssm.2025.901			DEC 2025	2025	Quantifying external load using kinematic variables from inertial devices provides crucial insights into player performance. This study analyzed load variables in men's singles badminton matches, differentiating between set outcomes (winners vs. losers) across different score gaps (0-5, 6-10, >10 points). Data were collected from 18 highly trained players (110 sets) using the Catapult Vector S7 microtechnology units, housed with a 100hz accelerometer, gyroscope and magnetometer. The results indicated that set winners exhibited a lower player load (estimated difference [ED] and 95% CI = -14.1 [-26.20, -1.78], p = 0.023), covered less distance (ED = -134.84 [-248.99, -17.01], p = 0.02), performed fewer explosive efforts (defined as the sum of high-intensity accelerations, decelerations, and changes of direction [COD]) (ED = -19.75 [-31.85, -7.33], p = 0.002), CODs (ED = -21.02 [-34.18, -7.67], p = 0.003), and accelerations (ED = -7.03 [-13.16, -0.73], p = 0.03) than set losers. Notably, when the score gap was narrow (0-5 points), set winners performed more explosive efforts and CODs than set losers (adjusted p = 0.0412 and 0.0499, respectively). However, as the score gap widened (6-10 and >10 points), set winners exhibited fewer explosive efforts and CODs (all adjusted p < 0.05). Furthermore, when the score gap exceeded 10 points, set winners demonstrated a lower player load, covered less distance, and performed fewer right-side CODs (all adjusted p < 0.05). These findings suggest that winners generally have a lower external load in men's singles badminton matches. However, when opponents are evenly matched, on-court movement may play a pivotal role in determining the outcome.		[Guo, Zhenxiang; Liu, Chunlong; Yang, Zhihua; Dai, Jin] Beijing Sport Univ, Sports Coaching Coll, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Jiang, Leyi] Beijing Sport Univ, Sch Strength & Conditioning Training, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Qin, Shenglei] Beijing Sport Univ, China Football Coll, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Jiang, Dongting] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Athlet Performance, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Bao, Dapeng] Beijing Sport Univ, China Inst Sport & Hlth Sci, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Liu, Haoyang] Beijing Sport Univ, Sch Sports Engn, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Dai, Jin] Beijing Sport Univ, Sports Coaching Coll, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Liu, Haoyang] Beijing Sport Univ, Sch Sports Engn, Beijing, Peoples R China								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:001607873400001	42	Article; Article		
J	Schlegel, Petr; Stuchlikova, Katerina; Cabrnoch, Bohous								Epidemiology and Risk Factors of CrossFit<SUP>®</SUP>-Related Injuries: A Cross-Sectional Study Among Athletes in the Czech Republic								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				24	4			739	746		10.52082/jssm.2025.739			DEC 2025	2025	CrossFit((R)), a high-intensity functional training program, places considerable physical demands on athletes and may contribute to musculoskeletal injuries. Understanding injury patterns and risk factors is essential for developing prevention strategies. This study investigated injury prevalence, types, and associated risk factors among Czech CrossFit((R)) practitioners and examined the impact on training routines. A cross-sectional online survey was distributed to athletes training for at least six months at licensed affiliates across the Czech Republic. Descriptive statistics summarized participant characteristics and injuries. Chi-square and t-tests compared groups, and logistic regression estimated odds ratios (ORs) for risk factors including age, sex, CrossFit((R)) experience, and weekly training volume. Of 456 athletes (214 men and 242 women), 36.4% reported at least one injury in the past six months. The most injured areas were the spine (30.7%), shoulder (28.3%), and palm (14.5%). Snatches, box jumps, deadlifts, cleans, and pull-up variations accounted for most injuries. Overuse injuries were most prevalent (49.2%). Injured athletes were younger (p = 0.008) and trained more hours per week (p = 0.046). Logistic regression showed that increasing age (OR = 0.97; 95% CI: 0.94-0.99; p = 0.032) and absence of competitive participation (OR = 0.61; 95% CI: 0.39-0.96; p = 0.039) reduced injury risk. These findings highlight the substantial impact of injuries on training and support targeted prevention strategies-such as skill progression, load management, and appropriate scaling-to promote safer long-term participation in CrossFit((R)).		[Schlegel, Petr; Cabrnoch, Bohous] Univ Hradec Kralove, Fac Educ, Dept Phys Educ & Sports, Hradec Kralove, Czech Republic; [Stuchlikova, Katerina] Charles Univ Prague, Fac Med 2, Dept Rehabil & Sports Med, Prague, Czech Republic; [Stuchlikova, Katerina] Univ Hosp Motol, Prague, Czech Republic; [Schlegel, Petr] Univ Hradec Kralove, Fac Educ, Dept Phys Educ & Sports, Hradec Kralove, Czech Republic								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:001611845300001	44	Article; Article		
J	Bellingan, Lenel; Viljoen, Carel; Sewry, Nicola								Epidemiology of injury and associated injury risk factors in South African provincial women's rugby players								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				54	1			28	36		10.1080/00913847.2025.2580923			JAN 2 2026	2026	Objective: To establish match injury rates, characteristics, severity, burden, and associated risk factors in South African provincial women's rugby players. Method: A secondary data analysis of injury data collected prospectively during the 2023 Women's Premier Division competition in South Africa. Match injuries were analyzed, and a modified version of the rugby consensus injury definition was used. The injury incidence rate was calculated as injuries/1000 player match hours. Univariate analysis was used, and injury incidence risk was calculated where applicable. Statistical significance was set at p < 0.05. Results: The injury incidence rate for all injuries was 207.1/1000 player match hours (95% CIs 153.8 to 260.5), and for time-loss injuries 25.0/1000 player match hours (95% CIs 6.5 to 43.5). The mean severity was 22.3 days. The lower limb and muscle/tendon injuries were the most commonly injured anatomical regions and injury types. Contact injuries had a significantly higher injury incidence rate than non-contact injuries (p < 0.001). The injury incidence risk was significantly higher for forwards compared to backs (p = 0.019). Conclusion: The overall match injury incidence rate was comparable to other studies on women's rugby. Contact injuries, lower limb, and muscle/tendon injuries are associated with a significantly higher injury incidence rate.		[Bellingan, Lenel; Sewry, Nicola] Univ Pretoria, Sport Exercise Med & Lifestyle Inst SEMLI, Fac Hlth Sci, Pretoria, South Africa; [Bellingan, Lenel; Viljoen, Carel] Univ Pretoria, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Physiotherapy, ZA-0028 Gezina, Pretoria, South Africa; [Sewry, Nicola] IOC Res Ctr, Pretoria, South Africa; [Bellingan, Lenel] Univ Pretoria, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Physiotherapy, ZA-0028 Gezina, Pretoria, South Africa								1							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001605751200001	51	Article; Article		
J	Baker, Edward; Boardman, Phil; Kelly, Adam Leigh; Francis, John William								Scouting in English male professional football academies: Practices and perceptions between full-time, part-time, and volunteer scouts								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541251389527				2025	The study aimed to explore the practices and perceptions of full-time, part-time, and volunteer scouts in English male professional football academies, examining current methods used to recognise talented players based on scouting roles, and offering recommendations to enhance the scouting processes. Academy scouts (n = 71) completed an online survey, including topics such as scouting processes, work quality, motivation, professional development, and suggestions for improving scouting processes. The survey was distributed via social media platforms and snowball sampling methods to relevant football scouts working in Category One, Two, and Three male academies in England. Four key findings emerged: (1) inconsistent terminology in practices, with full-time and part-time scouts more likely to use structured language; (2) recognition of bias in scouting decisions, particularly among full-time and part-time scouts; (3) varying access to training, with full-time scouts receiving more professional development although all role types desired feedback and education; and (4) a need for specialisation and future skill development, including age- and role-specific expertise. The study highlights the importance of structured communication, collaborative practices, and inclusive development opportunities. By valuing scouts' input and integrating their knowledge into decision-making, clubs can foster a cohesive environment and improve player identification, contributing to long-term success and sustainability.		[Baker, Edward; Boardman, Phil; Francis, John William] Univ Worcester, Henwick Grove, Worcester WR2 6AJ, Worcs, England; [Baker, Edward] Sheffield United Football Club, Sheffield, England; [Boardman, Phil] Everton Football Club, Liverpool, England; [Kelly, Adam Leigh] Birmingham City Univ, Coll Life Sci, Res Ctr Life & Sport Sci CLaSS, Res Athlete & Youth Sport Dev RAYSD Lab, Birmingham, England; [Francis, John William] Univ Worcester, Henwick Grove, Worcester WR2 6AJ, Worcs, England								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001603247600001	63	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Pickford, Ben; Groom, Ryan; Gibson, Luke								Exploring practitioner decision making in talent development environments: A multidisciplinary case study of an English Premier League football academy								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	1			509	518		10.1177/17479541251389219			FEB 2026	2026	Multidisciplinary working is perceived as best practice within elite football. However, our knowledge of decision-making as a collaborative team and the contextual realities experienced by multidisciplinary practitioners during decision-making processes requires scholarly attention. This study aimed to explore multidisciplinary decision-making and communication in an English Premier League (EPL) academy, adopting an interpretive case study approach. Data were collected using semi-structured interviews with 10 EPL practitioners who formed a multidisciplinary team. Data were analysed through a process of thematic analysis. Findings highlighted challenges surrounding the use and interpretation of data amongst multidisciplinary practitioners when making key decisions (i.e., to retain, loan or release academy players). We also found an increased appreciation of the contribution of player care staff within the multidisciplinary team, which was highly valued in the decision-making process. Finally, we highlighted the importance of developing trust and credibility within working relationships in multidisciplinary teams, and related challenges faced following an increase in remote and hybrid working. The findings have important implications for the development of multidisciplinary teams in elite sport and professional football academies, along with suggestions for future research to further our understanding of multidisciplinary working.		[Pickford, Ben; Groom, Ryan; Gibson, Luke] Univ Derby, Coll Sci & Engn, Sch Sport & Exercise Sci, Kedleston Rd, Derby DE22 1GB, England; [Gibson, Luke] Univ Derby, Coll Sci & Engn, Sch Sport & Exercise Sci, Kedleston Rd, Derby DE22 1GB, England								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001601798200001	48	Article; Article		
J	Jeon, Minsoo; Lim, Hyosung								Analysis of technology acceptance of AI umpiring in baseball using the UTAUT model								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541251387707				2025	This study explores the acceptance of AI-based umpiring systems among baseball players, focusing on the factors influencing their intention to adopt the technology. Using the Unified Theory of Acceptance and Use of Technology (UTAUT), the research examines the effects of performance expectancy, effort expectancy, and social influence on trust and behavioral intention. A total of 191 baseball players from university and professional teams in South Korea participated in the survey, and structural equation modeling was employed for analysis. The results indicate that all three UTAUT factors had significant positive effects on both trust and behavioral intention, with trust serving as a significant mediator, particularly in the paths from performance expectancy and effort expectancy. Importantly, this study provides unique insights based on the precedent-setting case of South Korea, which became the first country to fully implement an AI umpiring system in professional baseball (KBO). By empirically analyzing players' initial perceptions in this pioneering context, the study offers valuable perspectives for global discussions on AI adoption in sports officiating. As baseball returns to the official Olympic program at LA28, the research provides timely implications regarding the human factors essential for successful AI integration in elite sports.		[Jeon, Minsoo] Dankook Univ, Dept Int Sport, Yongin, Chungcheongnam, South Korea; [Lim, Hyosung] Anyang Univ, Dept Appl Sport Ind, 602-14,Jungang-Ro, Incheon 23038, South Korea; [Lim, Hyosung] Anyang Univ, Dept Appl Sport Ind, 602-14,Jungang-Ro, Incheon 23038, South Korea								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001601790400001	21	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	De Campos, Daiani; Martins, Eduardo Campos; Poletto, Giorgio Silvano Ferreira; Fontana, Heiliane De Brito								Barbell squats in CrossFit athletes: the effects of load and footwear type on trunk flexion and lower limb joints torques at the peak of total support torque								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				25	5			763	772		10.1080/14763141.2025.2578351			MAY 4 2026	2026	We examined the effects of barbell load and footwear type on hip, knee, and ankle joint torques during barbell squats in CrossFit athletes. Sixteen participants performed squats at 50%, 70%, and 90% of their 3-repetition maximum, wearing either weightlifting shoes or conventional footwear. Kinematic and kinetic data were captured using a three-dimensional analysis system, enabling the calculation of joint torques and trunk flexion angles at the instant of peak total support torque. Peak total support torque increased with load in both footwear conditions, with no interactions between footwear type and load observed for peak total support torque or individual joint contributions. Regardless of load, weightlifting shoes resulted in a lower hip torque contribution (p = 0.017) and a higher knee torque contribution (p = 0.024) compared to conventional shoes. As load increased, knee torque contribution decreased (p < 0.001), while ankle torque contribution increased (p = 0.025), accompanied by, on average, small increases in trunk flexion angle. Peak total support torque and peak trunk flexion did not coincide, potentially explaining the modest effects of load and footwear type observed. Analysis throughout the entire squat cycle is needed to fully understand joint contributions, aiding in optimizing squat techniques and footwear choices.		[De Campos, Daiani; Martins, Eduardo Campos] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Biomech Lab, Florianopolis, Brazil; Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Sch Biol Sci, Morphol Sci Dept, Florianopolis, SC, Brazil; [Martins, Eduardo Campos] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Biomech Lab, Florianopolis, Brazil								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001603463200001	9	Article; Article		
J	Montalt-Garcia, Sergio; Monfort-Torres, Gonzalo; Tudela-Petit, Mario; Marco-Aullo, Adria; Garcia-Masso, Xavier; Estevan, Isaac								In the Pursuit of the Optimal Path to Motor Competence: A Decision Tree-Based Approach								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				97	1			176	186		10.1080/02701367.2025.2566952			JAN 2 2026	2026	Motor competence (MC) is a multifaceted construct influenced by physical, behavioral, emotional, and environmental factors. Its development plays a pivotal role in physical activity participation, health, and well-being. However, the complex, non-linear interplay among these determinants remains underexplored. This study aimed to identify multivariate profiles according to multiple correlates that predict levels of MC in primary school children using a decision tree-based classification model. A cross-sectional sample of 676 children aged 8-12 from five public schools in Valencia, Spain, was assessed on a comprehensive array of variables, including actual MC, physical fitness, anthropometry, motivation, perceived MC, physical literacy, social support, and sedentary behavior. A two-stage hierarchical decision tree model was applied to classify children based on their MC levels. The initial tree identified key predictors of low MC, with cardiovascular endurance and self-determined motivation as dominant discriminators. A secondary tree further refined classifications among ambiguous profiles. Notably, low cardiovascular endurance emerged as a major limiting factor, with few children overcoming its influence despite positive psychological attributes. Conversely, high MC was associated with positive combinations of fitness, motivation, controlled sedentary behavior, and supportive environments. Findings underscore the utility of decision tree models in capturing the nonlinear, multidimensional nature of MC development. Tailored interventions addressing clusters of risk or protective factors are essential to promote motor development and physical literacy in diverse child populations.		[Montalt-Garcia, Sergio; Monfort-Torres, Gonzalo; Tudela-Petit, Mario; Marco-Aullo, Adria; Garcia-Masso, Xavier; Estevan, Isaac] Univ Valencia, AFIPS Res Grp, Ave Dels Tarongers 4, Valencia 46022, Spain; [Marco-Aullo, Adria] Catholic Univ Valencia, Valencia, Spain; [Estevan, Isaac] Univ Valencia, AFIPS Res Grp, Ave Dels Tarongers 4, Valencia 46022, Spain								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001597637500001	48	Article; Article		
J	Kehrwald, Collin; Daw, Jessie; Zimney, Kory J.; Yang, Hyung Suk								Effects of Mental Fatigue on Shoulder and Knee Joint Repositioning in Healthy College-Aged Males: A Quasi-Experimental Study								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				97	2			195	200		10.1080/02701367.2025.2571725			APR 3 2026	2026	Mental fatigue negatively affects both cognitive and physical performance, but its specific impact on proprioception remains underexplored. This study examined the effects of mental fatigue on shoulder and knee joint repositioning. Proprioception was assessed in 18 college-aged males using a joint repositioning task in a single-group, nonrandomised quasi-experimental design, with measurements taken before and after a Stroop task designed to induce mental fatigue. A significant increase in shoulder flexion variable error was observed (pre-Stroop = 2.79 +/- 1.31 degrees, post-Stroop = 4.97 +/- 3.20 degrees; rank biserial correlation = -0.673; p = .010), indicating reduced proprioceptive consistency. No significant differences were found for knee flexion variable error (pre-Stroop = 4.99 +/- 3.73 degrees, post-Stroop = 4.44 +/- 2.66 degrees; Cohen's d = 0.188; p = .435), shoulder absolute error (pre-Stroop = 4.39 +/- 2.83 degrees, post-Stroop = 6.18 +/- 3.71 degrees; Cohen's d = -0.413; p = .098), or knee absolute error (pre-Stroop = 4.82 +/- 2.79 degrees, post-Stroop = 5.75 +/- 1.93 degrees; Cohen's d = -0.328; p = .182). A secondary correlational analysis found no significant relationships between changes in mental fatigue and changes in proprioceptive measures. These findings suggest that mental fatigue may impair upper limb proprioception. Further research is needed to examine whether similar effects occur in other joints and populations. Understanding this relationship may have implications for motor control, injury risk, and performance in clinical and athletic contexts.		[Kehrwald, Collin; Daw, Jessie; Zimney, Kory J.; Yang, Hyung Suk] Univ South Dakota, Div Kinesiol & Sport Management, 414 E Clark St, Vermillion, SD 57069 USA; [Yang, Hyung Suk] Univ South Dakota, Div Kinesiol & Sport Management, 414 E Clark St, Vermillion, SD 57069 USA								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001597639100001	19	Article; Article		
J	Garcia-Sanchez, Carlos; Karcher, Claude; Cadens, Maria; Martinez-Rubio, Carlos; de la Rubia, Alfonso; Font, Roger								Context matters when analyzing the peak match demands in women's handball?								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541251386991				2025	Understanding the influence of contextual factors on peak demands (PD) is essential to maximize performance in handball. The aims of the study were: (1) to quantify the PD in women's handball through the rolling average method in four different time windows (i.e., 30-s, 60-s, 180-s and the full-match duration); (2) to examine the influence of four contextual factors (i.e., playing positions, match halves, level of the opponent and match outcome) on the PD. Twenty-two female players from the Spanish 2nd Division were monitored across 13 official matches. Total distance covered (TDC), high-speed running (HSR), high-intensity accelerations (HIA) and high-intensity decelerations (HID) were collected using a local positioning system. Wings showed the highest PD, with higher TDC (+36-47%), HSR (+143-162%), HIA (+167-255%), and HID (+82-176%) than pivots in the 30-, 60-, and 180-s windows. All positions reached the peak values in the 30-s window. Comparing match halves, TDC decreased from the first to the second half by 16-18% in all time windows, while HSR increased by 40-116% in 30-, 60-, and 180-s windows. This information should be considered to design position-specific drills that replicate the most demanding passages of competition, guide microcycle periodization, and structure injury rehabilitation programs.		[Garcia-Sanchez, Carlos; de la Rubia, Alfonso] Univ Politecn Madrid, Fac Ciencias Act Fis & Deporte, Deporte & Entrenamiento Res Grp, Madrid 28040, Spain; [Karcher, Claude] Univ Strasbourg, Biomed Res Ctr Strasbourg CRBS, Mitochondria Oxidat Stress & Muscle Plast Lab UR 3, Strasbourg, France; [Karcher, Claude] Univ Strasbourg, Fac Sport Sci, European Ctr Educ Res & Innovat Exercise Physiol C, Strasbourg, France; [Karcher, Claude] CREPS Strasbourg, F-67200 Strasbourg, France; [Cadens, Maria] Univ Lleida UdL, Natl Inst Phys Educ Catalonia INEFC, Res Grp Human Movement, Lleida, Spain; [Martinez-Rubio, Carlos] Univ Almeria, Fac Educ Sci, Dept Educ, Almeria 04120, Spain; [Font, Roger] Pompeu Fabra Univ, Dept Hlth Sci, Res Grp Tecnol Aplicada Alt Rendiment & Salut TAAR, Tecnocampus, Mataro, Spain; [Font, Roger] Natl Inst Phys Educ Catalonia INEFC, GRCE Res Grp, Barcelona, Spain; [Garcia-Sanchez, Carlos] Univ Politecn Madrid, Fac Ciencias Act Fis & Deporte, Deporte & Entrenamiento Res Grp, Madrid 28040, Spain								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001595717200001	35	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Perez-Romero, Miriam E.; Jimenez-Islas, Donaji; Alvarez-Garcia, Jose; Del Rio-Rama, Maria de la Cruz								Sports marketing in Latin America: an analysis of scientific production								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP											10.1108/IJSMS-06-2025-0290				2025	PurposeSports marketing has become very important in Latin America, motivated by the sports industry, which has attracted the attention of academics and marketers in the area. The objective of this study was to analyze the existing literature on sports marketing in Latin America through a bibliometric approach.Design/methodology/approachA bibliometric analysis was conducted using 109 documents retrieved from the Scopus database, covering the period 2001-2024. Data were processed using Excel, VOSviewer and Napkin to generate descriptive statistics, co-occurrence maps and visualizations. The study examined publication trends, most cited authors, key thematic areas, keyword networks and sports marketing strategies in the region. An exponential growth pattern in scientific output was identified and modeled using the Gompertz function.FindingsResults reveal an exponential increase in scientific output over the last decade. Social media has emerged as a central tool in sports marketing strategies, particularly in campaigns associating top athletes with global brands. Concepts such as electronic word-of-mouth (eWOM) and influencer engagement are commonly used to enhance visibility and build brand loyalty.Practical implicationsSports marketing plays a pivotal role in the professionalization of sports organizations in Latin America, optimizing sponsorship value, expanding fan bases and contributing to regional economic development through strategic brand positioning.Originality/valueThis study provides an updated and geographically specific synthesis of the literature on sports marketing in Latin America, offering a foundation for future research and practice in the field.		[Perez-Romero, Miriam E.; Jimenez-Islas, Donaji] Higher Technol Inst Huichapan, Mexico City, DF, Mexico; [Perez-Romero, Miriam E.] Univ Extremadura, Int Doctoral Sch, Doctoral Program Sustainable Terr Dev R015, Badajoz, Spain; [Alvarez-Garcia, Jose] Univ Extremadura, Inst Univ Invest Desarrollo Terr Sostenible INTERR, Dept Econ Financiera & Contabil, Badajoz, Spain; [Del Rio-Rama, Maria de la Cruz] Univ Vigo, Dept Business Management & Mkt, Vigo, Spain; [Alvarez-Garcia, Jose] Univ Extremadura, Inst Univ Invest Desarrollo Terr Sostenible INTERR, Dept Econ Financiera & Contabil, Badajoz, Spain								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001593660800001	85	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Matsushima, Masaharu								A case study on the classification of somersault jumping motion characteristics in trampoline gymnasts using the TJ-index								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				25	5			686	699		10.1080/14763141.2025.2572769			MAY 4 2026	2026	The purpose of this study was to propose the TJ-index, which uses deflection distance and contact time as variables, as an index of somersault jumps in trampoline competitions, and to clarify the characteristics of the jumping motion of trampoline gymnasts as a case study. Ten participants, ranging from elite trampoline gymnasts to those at the national competition level, performed 10 consecutive backward somersaults and forward somersault half-twists in alternating sequence. A strong positive correlation was observed between the TJ-index and time of flight (r = 0.98, p < 0.01). The relationship between deflection distance and contact time, which together constitute the TJ-index, was classified into six types using Ward's cluster analysis method. Moreover, normalising deflection distance by body mass revealed individual jump characteristics. The bed's deflection distance may primarily result from either the gymnast's body mass or their active jumping motion. A strong negative correlation was observed between deflection distance per unit of body mass and contact time (r = -0.87, p < 0.01). These findings suggested the existence of body mass optimisation in trampoline gymnasts. The use of the TJ-index appears to have potential for identifying and classifying the jumping motion tendencies of trampoline gymnasts by type.		[Matsushima, Masaharu] Gakko Hojin Ohara Gakuen, Sports Ind Dept, Tokyo, Japan; [Matsushima, Masaharu] Gakko Hojin Ohara Gakuen, Sports Ind Dept, Tokyo, Japan								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001596816400001	27	Article; Article		
J	Grechyna, Daryna; Grechyn, Viktor								Economic Inequality and Convergence Through the Lens of Two Sports								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				26	8			994	1017		10.1177/15270025251381329			DEC 2025	2025	This paper analyzes the inequalities and convergence across countries using data on the top 100 players in chess and tennis. We explore the impact of time trends and exogenous global shocks on countries' representation in the top 100 players' lists in a manner akin to a natural experiment, comparing chess and tennis while distinguishing among different country income groups. The results indicate the presence of conditional convergence across countries in their representations in the top 100 chess players, but not in the top 100 tennis players. The availability of internet contributed to the reduction of inequalities in chess, a mind-dominated sport, but not in tennis, a wealth-dominated sport. Negative economic shocks, such as the Great Recession and the Covid pandemic, exacerbated the inequalities in tennis, but not in chess.		[Grechyna, Daryna] Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias Econ & Empresariales, Dept Teoria & Hist Econ, Granada, Spain; [Grechyn, Viktor] Victoria Univ, Melbourne, Vic 8001, Australia; [Grechyna, Daryna] Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias Econ & Empresariales, Dept Teoria & Hist Econ, Granada, Spain								0							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001594631100001	38	Article; Article		
J	Chen, Qujunli; Liu, Zhirui; He, Dacheng; Tang, Yuting; Gao, Yi								A Machine Learning-Based Model for Comprehensive Assessment and Classification of Cross-Country Skiing Athletes								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				97	1			124	136		10.1080/02701367.2025.2559379			JAN 2 2026	2026	This paper presents a novel machine learning-based model for evaluating and categorizing cross-country skiers into five distinct levels. The model integrates Multi-Layer Perceptrons (MLP), Attention mechanisms, and Support Vector Machines (SVM) to comprehensively assess athletes based on three key categories of evaluation metrics: physical condition, psychological status, and professional skills assessment indicators. Each category of metrics is processed by separate MLP models to extract high-level feature representations. The extracted features from the MLP models are dynamically weighted and fused using an Attention mechanism, creating a comprehensive feature vector that reflects the overall potential of the athlete. This feature vector is then used as input to an SVM model for final categorization into one of the five skill levels. We employ a dataset of 1,000 athletes from professional training centers across Europe, North America, and East Asia. These athletes, balanced by gender(50% male, 50% female), age(18-35 years), and experience(1-15 years), 19 provide a diverse basis for model evaluation. Experimental results show that our model achieves an F1 score of 0.9306, representing an absolute improvement of over 0.10 compared to the best baseline method. The dynamic feature weighting and fusion capabilities of the Attention mechanism enable a more nuanced and precise aggregation of information from diverse metric categories, leading to more accurate and reliable athlete classification. Meanwhile, we have also proven through experiments that our model is superior to manual grading and more scientific.		[Chen, Qujunli; Liu, Zhirui; Gao, Yi] Harbin Sport Univ, Harbin, Peoples R China; [He, Dacheng] Hunan Univ Sci & Technol, Xiangtan, Peoples R China; [Tang, Yuting] Hunan Univ, Changsha, Peoples R China; [Liu, Zhirui] Harbin Sport Univ, Winter Olymp Acad, 1 Dacheng St, Harbin, Heilongjiang, Peoples R China								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001590761600001	31	Article; Article		
J	Furtado, Sabrina; Alguren, Beatrix; Anupriya, A.; Chang, Jinyu; Gee, Sarah; Goncalves, Gabriel; Gothilander, Jennifer; Kenyon, James Andrew; Lion, Alexis; Mohammad, Faizaan; O'Byrne, David; Ooms, Linda; Petersen, Julienne; Powell, Darren; Sevdalis, Vassilis; Piggin, Joe								What health-related messages are promoted during mega sports events? A multi-country study of Paris 2024 Olympic and Paralympic Games								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP											10.1108/IJSMS-04-2025-0158				2025	PurposeThis study is a first exploration of health promotion messages during a mega sports event. In total, 12 countries were examined for how health-related messages were communicated in relation to the Paris 2024 Olympic and Paralympic Games via global and national partners.Design/methodology/approachIn this study, 12 countries were examined to investigate how the Paris 2024 Olympic and Paralympic Games promoted health. The Global Health Promotion and Sport Events Survey was applied to identified messages produced by global sponsors and national-level sponsors that related to community health, physical health, mental health, environmental health and nutritional health.FindingsIn total, 238 health-related messages were examined. The vast majority of these messages came from commercial, for-profit entities. When only one type of health was presented, this was often either community/social health, physical health or mental health. Environmental health and nutritional health appeared least often. Nearly half of the messages involved a combination of health types.Research limitations/implicationsParis 2024 was used by many corporate partners and National Olympic Committees to actively promote health-related messages around the world. A strength of this study was that it involved data collection from a range of countries.Practical implicationsThere are increasing concerns about detrimental effects from commercial determinants of health. Governing bodies of sport are encouraged to review partnerships which do not promote health.Social implicationsThere is opportunity to use the mega events to promote more specific actions relating to health, since the Olympic and Paralympic Games are occasions where social connection and celebration are likely to be inevitable.Originality/valueThis study offers an audit tool and sets a benchmark for understanding how health promotion messages are manifested at sport events.		[Furtado, Sabrina; Anupriya, A.; Chang, Jinyu; Kenyon, James Andrew; Mohammad, Faizaan; O'Byrne, David; Piggin, Joe] Loughborough Univ, Sch Sport Exercise & Hlth Sci, Loughborough, England; [Alguren, Beatrix; Sevdalis, Vassilis] Univ Gothenburg, Dept Food & Nutr & Sport Sci, Gothenburg, Sweden; [Gee, Sarah] Univ Windsor, Fac Human Kinet, Windsor, ON, Canada; [Goncalves, Gabriel] Santa Catarina State Univ, Phys Educ Dept, Joinville, Brazil; [Gothilander, Jennifer] Malardalen Univ, Sch Hlth Care & Social Welf, Vasteras, Sweden; [Lion, Alexis] Federat Luxembourgeoise Assoc Sport Sante, Luxembourg, Luxembourg; [Ooms, Linda] Mulier Inst, Dept Sport Phys Act & Hlth, Utrecht, Netherlands; [Petersen, Julienne] Tech Univ Munich, Munich, Germany; [Powell, Darren] Univ Auckland, Fac Arts & Educ, Auckland, New Zealand; [Piggin, Joe] Loughborough Univ, Sch Sport Exercise & Hlth Sci, Loughborough, England								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001588018200001	78	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Sato, Yuki; Wakui, Kengo; Miyazaki, Koichiro; Ushiyama, Yukihiko								Effects of subjective effort on ball speed and spin in table tennis forehand topspin strokes								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	4			2347	2357		10.1177/17479541251380169			AUG 2026	2026	This study investigated how modulating subjective effort influences ball speed and spin rate in table tennis forehand topspin strokes, and examined discrepancies between perceived and actual output. Ten skilled male collegiate players performed strokes at five effort levels (60%, 70%, 80%, 90%, 100%). Objective measures included ball speed and spin rate, while subjective assessments involved introspective ratings of perceived control and strain. Both ball speed and spin rate generally increased with effort, indicating partial success in output modulation. However, under lower effort conditions-particularly for spin-participants exhibited excessive and unstable output, highlighting the difficulty of intentional suppression. Perceived strain increased linearly, while perceived control followed a nonlinear trend, with individual variation and a notable drop at 100%. Performance reproducibility, assessed via coefficient of variation, showed ball speed was less stable at lower efforts, while spin rate peaked in variability at 90%, indicating distinct challenges in regulating output types. These findings suggest that suppressing force demands more refined sensory calibration and self-monitoring than exerting it. Notably, "hitting softly" proved more difficult than maximizing effort, reframing motor control as the regulation rather than the amplification of force. From a practical perspective, training strategies such as visualizing subjective-objective mismatches, setting goals for reproducibility and suppression, and monitoring perceived control and strain may support more stable and self-regulated performance. Incorporating such approaches into coaching could enhance adaptability under variable or high-pressure conditions. This study provides a foundation for perceptual and introspective training strategies that prioritize modulation over maximization in racket sports.		[Sato, Yuki] Natl Inst Technol Oyama Coll, Oyama, Japan; [Wakui, Kengo; Miyazaki, Koichiro; Ushiyama, Yukihiko] Niigata Univ, Niigata, Japan; [Sato, Yuki] 771 Nakakuki, Oyama 3230806, Japan								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001586406900001	47	Article; Article		
J	Fei, Wu; Kong, Lingxuan								Exploring adaptive coaching practices in elite table tennis: A qualitative perspective on tactical evolution and talent logic in the ABS ball era								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	1			82	88		10.1177/17479541251383122			FEB 2026	2026	This study investigates how elite coaching cognition in Chinese table tennis has been reshaped by the ABS plastic ball era, not merely in technical outcomes but in the deeper logic of tactical and developmental practice. Using interpretive phenomenological analysis (IPA), we conducted an in-depth interview with Liu Guozheng, head coach of the Chinese men's national team, to capture how systemic disruption was experienced and acted upon. Findings reveal four interrelated domains of adaptation. First, tactical emphasis shifted from early-stroke aggression toward sustained rally control, with athletes trained to delay pressure and cultivate "silent control" across extended rallies. Second, psychological preparation was reframed as emotional regulation and decision resilience, illustrated by resetting routines that enabled clarity under prolonged rallies. Third, ecological training design was used to simulate uncertainty and cognitive load, embedding perception-driven drills where the "right moment to act" was intentionally obscured. Finally, talent selection criteria evolved to emphasize cognitive elasticity, reflecting a broader shift from fixed traits toward developmental potential. These domains did not emerge as abstract categories but as lived responses to systemic change. Together, they highlight adaptive expertise as a multi-layered process-spanning tactical reasoning, psychological stability, ecological training design, and future-oriented talent logic. By grounding theoretical insight in practitioner judgment, this study offers an ecologically valid account of how elite coaching negotiates performance disruption, with implications for broader high-performance contexts undergoing structural transitions.		[Fei, Wu] Peking Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Kong, Lingxuan] Shanghai Jiao Tong Univ, Dept Phys Educ, 800 Dongchuan Rd, Shanghai 200241, Peoples R China; [Kong, Lingxuan] Shanghai Jiao Tong Univ, Dept Phys Educ, 800 Dongchuan Rd, Shanghai 200241, Peoples R China								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001586416000001	22	Article; Article		
J	Qian, Qian; Zhang, Hengshuo; Hou, Zongchen; Wheeler, Patrick C.; Fong, Daniel T. P.								Simplified Tai Chi exercises to improve function in people with chronic ankle instability								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				76				101	109		10.1016/j.ptsp.2025.09.006			NOV 2025	2025	Objectives: To identify 12 forms from the traditional 108-form Tai Chi with the highest muscle activation values in the peroneus longus, peroneus brevis, and tibialis anterior and to design a Tai Chi training routine suitable for individuals with chronic ankle instability. Design: Cross-sectional study. Setting: Sports Biomechanics Laboratory. Participants: Eight Tai Chi instructors were recruited, with data from six used for analysis. Main outcome measures: The independent variable was the Tai Chi forms, while the dependent variable was the muscle activation measured using electromyography. The Vicon motion capture system recorded kinematic changes for form segmentation. Electromyography values from different segments were normalised to the maximum voluntary isometric contraction ratio for comparison. Results: In the 12 Tai Chi forms, peroneus longus, peroneus brevis, and tibialis anterior exhibited muscle activation exceeding 55 %, 55 %, and 30 % of maximum voluntary isometric contraction in integrated electromyography, respectively, with root mean square reaching 116.9 %, 111.7 %, and 60.3 %. Adding transition stages expanded these into a 16-form routine, with no significant side differences. Conclusions: The 16-form Tai Chi has the potential to enhance ankle stability by selectively training the muscles that counter ankle inversion. Randomised controlled trials are needed to assess its effectiveness in chronic ankle instability.		[Qian, Qian; Hou, Zongchen; Wheeler, Patrick C.; Fong, Daniel T. P.] Loughborough Univ, Natl Ctr Sport & Exercise Med, Sch Sport Exercise & Hlth Sci, Loughborough LE11 3TU, England; [Zhang, Hengshuo] Loughborough Univ, Wolfson Sch Mech Elect & Mfg Engn, Loughborough LE11 3TU, England; [Wheeler, Patrick C.] Univ Hosp Leicester NHS Trust, Dept Sport & Exercise Med, Leicester, England; [Fong, Daniel T. P.] Loughborough Univ, Natl Ctr Sport & Exercise Med, Sch Sport Exercise & Hlth Sci, Loughborough LE11 3TU, England								3							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001589066800001	54	Article; Article		
J	Maupin, Danny J.; Schram, Ben; Dulla, Joseph M.; Canetti, Elisa F. D.; Orr, Rob M.								Implementing Training Load Monitoring in Tactical Populations								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				47	5			566	577		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000883			OCT 2025	2025	The monitoring and optimizing training load is a concept designed to decrease risk of injury while improving physical fitness and performance. This area has grown significantly in popularity, especially in the sporting world. However, these principles can be applied to other populations, such as tactical personnel who likewise are at increased risk of injury and engage in physically demanding occupational tasks that require sufficient fitness. Although monitoring the training load in tactical personnel may be effective, the critical differences between athletic and tactical populations necessitate occupationally specific load monitoring programs. This article aims to identify these barriers and suggests potential solutions for practitioners and researchers.		[Maupin, Danny J.] Univ Surrey, Fac Hlth & Med Sci, Sch Hlth Sci, Guildford, England; [Schram, Ben; Dulla, Joseph M.; Canetti, Elisa F. D.; Orr, Rob M.] Bond Univ, Fac Hlth Sci & Med, Robina, Australia; [Schram, Ben; Canetti, Elisa F. D.; Orr, Rob M.] Bond Univ, Tact Res Unit, Robina, Australia; [Maupin, Danny J.] Univ Surrey, Fac Hlth & Med Sci, Sch Hlth Sci, Guildford, England								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001607477300001	87	Article; Article		
J	Morales, James T.; Snarr, Ronald L.								The V-Up								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				47	5			605	609		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000912			OCT 2025	2025			[Morales, James T.; Snarr, Ronald L.] Texas A&M Univ Corpus Christi, Dept Kinesiol, Corpus Christi, TX 78412 USA; [Snarr, Ronald L.] Texas A&M Univ Corpus Christi, Dept Kinesiol, Corpus Christi, TX 78412 USA								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001607477300009	7	Article; Article		
J	Sun, Wenping; Kok, LianYee; Chee, ChenSoon								Evaluation of Differentiating Attacking and Defensive Performance for Various Playing Positions during the Tokyo Olympics Men's Basketball Competition								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				99				207	221		10.5114/jhk/196719			OCT 2025	2025	The purpose of this study was to differentiate the attack-defense performance at various playing positions between the top and bottom teams during the Tokyo Olympics men's basketball competition, and to determine the relationship between the attack-defense performance of various positions and the final competition rankings. The rank-sum ratio (RSR) was employed to describe the attack-defense abilities of a total of 144 male players from 12 participating teams, which were divided into three groups according to their playing positions, namely centers (n = 27), forwards (n = 58), and guards (n = 59). Additionally, the independent sample t-test and Spearman Rho Correlation analyses were conducted to evaluate the differences and relationships among the various variables, respectively, at a 0.05 level of significance. The results showed that there were significant differences in points (p = 0.003), the 2-point field goal made percentage (p = 0.035), and defensive rebounds (p = 0.004) at the guard position, and assists (p = 0.047) at the forward position between the top four and the bottom four teams. The attack-defense ranks of the guard position presented high positive correlations (p = 0.000, r = 0.876) with the final competition rankings, while the center (p = 0.017, r = 0.669) and forward positions (p = 0.036, r = 0.608) showed moderate positive correlations. These results may be considered by coaches and players to include targeted training to improve the overall strength of the team.		[Sun, Wenping] Nanyang Inst Technol, Dept Sports, Nanyang, Peoples R China; [Kok, LianYee] Tunku Abdul Rahman Univ Management & Technol, Fac Appl Sci, Dept Sport Sci, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia; [Chee, ChenSoon] Univ Putra Malaysia, Fac Educ Studies, Dept Sport Studies, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia; [Sun, Wenping] Nanyang Inst Technol, Dept Sports, Nanyang, Peoples R China								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001605557400016	44	Article; Article		
J	Kostoulas, Ioannis D.; Kalaitzoglidis, Gregory; Tsalis, George; Karatrantou, Konstantina; Toubekis, Argyris G.; Gerodimos, Vassilis								Physiological Responses to Repeated Maximum Intensity Efforts in Surface and Underwater Fin Swimming								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				99				99	109		10.5114/jhk/199380			OCT 2025	2025	The purpose of the study was to compare physiological and performance responses during surface and underwater fin swimming. Thirteen male, elite fin swimmers performed four repetitions of 50-m sprints using a monofin (4 x 50 m) either on surface (S) or underwater with apnea (U). Performance time and the number of lower body kicks were recorded during 4 x 50-m sprints. Lactate was evaluated before the start, after the second and the fourth sprint and five minutes into recovery. The heart rate was measured continuously and respiratory function was recorded before and after each condition. Performance time was shorter and kicking frequency was higher in U compared to S (17.73 +/- 1.18 vs. 19.94 +/- 1.41 s, 135 +/- 18 vs. 121 +/- 15 kicks min(-1), p < 0.05). Lactate concentration was no different between conditions. Forced expiratory volume in 1 s and peak expiratory flow were no different before and after the sprints and between conditions (p > 0.05). Forced vital capacity and maximal voluntary ventilation were increased after sprints under both conditions (p < 0.05). The heart rate was decreased in U compared to S during both sprints (167-177 vs. 183-185 bmin(-1)) and the recovery period (141-151 vs. 166-174 b min(-1)). Underwater and surface repeated sprint swimming present maximal dynamic and physiological responses that should be considered during fin swimming training.		[Kostoulas, Ioannis D.] Hellen Army Acad, Dept Phys & Cultural Educ, Athens, Greece; [Kalaitzoglidis, Gregory; Karatrantou, Konstantina; Gerodimos, Vassilis] Univ Thessaly, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Trikala, Greece; [Tsalis, George] Aristotle Univ Thessaloniki, Dept Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Serres, Greece; [Toubekis, Argyris G.] Natl & Kapodistrian Univ Athens, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Athens, Greece; [Kostoulas, Ioannis D.] Hellen Army Acad, Dept Phys & Cultural Educ, Athens, Greece								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:001605557400008	32	Article; Article		
J	Ikeda, Yusuke; Kawabe, Masaki; Hisamitsu, Tetsuya								Impact of Load Variation on Lower Limb Joint Torque during Overhead Squats								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				99				5	18		10.5114/jhk/195877			OCT 2025	2025	The purpose of this study was to examine the kinematic and kinetic changes in overhead squats (OHSs) with increasing loads and clarify the relationship between OHS movement and shoulder joint flexibility. Fourteen male college students randomly performed OHSs using 20% of their body mass (BM), 40% of their BM, and a plastic pipe (no load). The motion and ground reaction forces during OHSs were recorded. The relative peak torque of the hip under the 20% and 40% BM conditions during both negative and positive phases of the OHS was significantly greater than that under the no-load condition, while the relative peak torque of the knee did not increase. The relative peak torque of the hip was negatively correlated with the angles of the lower trunk at the lowest point of the center of mass (CM). In relation to the movement of the OHS and shoulder joint flexibility, a correlation was observed between the angle of the lower trunk at the lowest point of the CM and the shoulder flexibility test score (r = 0.561-0.598, p < 0.05), suggesting that a flexible shoulder joint could lead to the lower trunk leaning forward during the OHS. These results reveal that in the overhead squat, where the relative load to body weight is smaller compared to the normal squat, an increase in the load leads to an increase in hip torque without a corresponding increase in knee torque. Furthermore, the increase in hip torque is influenced by the angle of the lower trunk.		[Ikeda, Yusuke] Nippon Sports Sci Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Yokohama, Japan; [Kawabe, Masaki] Yokohama Shogyo High Sch, Yokohama, Japan; [Hisamitsu, Tetsuya] Itoman Swimming Nishinomiya, Nishinomiya, Japan; [Ikeda, Yusuke] Nippon Sports Sci Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Yokohama, Japan								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:001605557400001	44	Article; Article		
J	Bartosz-Jefferies, Mieszko; Socha, Izabella; Matusinski, Aleksander; Markowska, Aleksandra; Zajac, Adam; Maszczyk, Adam								Longitudinal Analysis and Predictive Modeling of Sprint Performance (1976-2035): Trends, Seasonality, and Prediction Approaches								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				99				125	147		10.5114/jhk/209844			OCT 2025	2025	This study presents a longitudinal analysis and predictive modeling of elite sprint performance trends from 1976 to 2035, based on a database of over 2,500 results from top 10 male and female finishers in the 100-m, 200-m, and 400-m events. Using regression analysis and time series models, including ARIMA and SARIMA, the study evaluated historical trajectories and predictions, accounting for seasonal effects related to Olympic-year cycles. Results indicated a significant long-term improvement in sprint performances, with the most rapid gains occurring before the year 2000. However, the rate of progress slowed, particularly in the 100-m and 400-m events, suggesting physiological limits may be approaching. ARIMA models predicted marginal improvements by 2035, with projected best times of approximately 10.67 s for women and 9.63 s for men in the 100-m event. Regression models, despite showing strong fits (R-2 > 0.85), tended to overestimate future performance gains compared to ARIMA, particularly in the speed-endurance-dominated 400-m sprint. Comparative model assessments demonstrated that ARIMA provided superior predictive accuracy, better capturing historical variability and Olympic-cycle peaks. Practical implications suggested that future sprint performance gains would depend more on advancements in biomechanics, individualized training optimization, and sports technology, rather than on natural physiological improvements alone. This study highlights the necessity for integrating machine learning-based forecasting, biomechanical modeling, and strategic periodization to maximize sprinting potential in the coming decades.		[Bartosz-Jefferies, Mieszko; Socha, Izabella; Matusinski, Aleksander; Zajac, Adam; Maszczyk, Adam] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ, Inst Sport Sci, Katowice, Poland; [Markowska, Aleksandra] Med Univ Warsaw, Doctoral Sch, Warsaw, Poland; [Maszczyk, Adam] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ, Inst Sport Sci, Katowice, Poland								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001605557400010	42	Article; Article		
J	Monteiro, Diogo; Teixeira, Diogo S.; Morales-Sanchez, Veronica; Chica-Merino, Encarnacion; Matos, Rui; Amaro, Nuno; Antunes, Raul; Jacinto, Miguel								The relationship between coaches' interpersonal behaviors, basic psychological needs, behavioral regulation, and intentions towards sport persistence								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	1			30	38		10.1177/17479541251378385			FEB 2026	2026	This study investigates the relationships between coaches' need-supportive and need-thwarting behaviors, satisfaction of basic psychological needs, motivation, intentions to continue, and athletes sport persistence. A total of 518 athletes (212 male, 306 female), 18 to 32 years (M= 23.18, SD = 4.19), participated in the study, with participants from football (n = 179), basketball (n = 166), and swimming (n = 173). A structural equation model and a mediation model were performed to understand the associations between motivational factors based on self-determination theory and a 2-year sport persistence assessment. Intentions to continue sport practice accounted for 12% of the variance related to sport persistence in the structural equation model. The mediation model did not reveal any direct effects for need-supportive or need-thwarting behaviors towards sport persistence. However, significant indirect paths were identified in the bright side of the model. Total indirect effect of the need-supportive behaviors in the model was beta = .14 (CI95% = .26,.37) while for need-thwarting behaviors was beta = -.05 (CI95% = -.11, -.01) towards sport persistence, indicating a positive mediation process. Coaches by being perceived as need-supportive may increase athletes' intention to continue participating in sport, and consequently sport persistence.		[Monteiro, Diogo; Matos, Rui; Amaro, Nuno; Antunes, Raul; Jacinto, Miguel] Polytech Univ Leiria, ESECS, Leiria, Portugal; [Monteiro, Diogo; Matos, Rui; Amaro, Nuno; Antunes, Raul; Jacinto, Miguel] Res Ctr Sport Hlth & Human Dev CIDESD, Covilha, Portugal; [Teixeira, Diogo S.] Lusofona Univ, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Lisbon, Portugal; [Teixeira, Diogo S.] Res Ctr Sport Phys Educ & Exercise & Hlth CIDEFES, Lisbon, Portugal; [Morales-Sanchez, Veronica] Univ Malaga, Fac Psychol, Dept Social Psychol Social Anthropol Social Work, Malaga, Spain; [Chica-Merino, Encarnacion] Ctr Univ Safa, Adscrito Univ Jaen, Jaen, Spain; [Jacinto, Miguel] Polytech Univ Leiria, ESECS, Leiria, Portugal; [Jacinto, Miguel] Res Ctr Sport Hlth & Human Dev CIDESD, Covilha, Portugal								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001585321000001	29	Article; Article		
J	Chen, Sheng-Fong; Liu, Yi-Hung								Deep learning and sentiment analysis framework for classifying YouTube home-fitness videos								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	4			2425	2434		10.1177/17479541251380027			AUG 2026	2026	This study introduces a deep learning (DL) framework designed to classify YouTube videos into five exercise categories: TABATA, cardiorespiratory endurance, free weight muscular endurance, training aid muscular endurance, and flexibility. These categories were identified by two domain experts in sports science based on video content, tags, and user interaction patterns. Utilizing data from 1284 Traditional Chinese-language YouTube videos and 39,141 comments posted between March 2023 and June 2024, we applied text preparation techniques and sentiment analysis to clean and analyze the dataset. The study incorporated five key features-titles, hashtags, descriptions, comments, and sentiment, and employed Word2Vec with the Continuous Bag of Words (CBOW) model for word embedding, effectively handling short YouTube comments. We evaluated several predictive models, including Support Vector Machine (SVM), Extreme Gradient Boosting (XGBOOST), Text Convolutional Neural Network (TextCNN), Bidirectional Long Short-Term Memory (BiLSTM), CNN-BiLSTM, and BERT, using 10-fold cross-validation and comparing their performance based on accuracy, precision, recall, and F-measure. The results indicate that BERT outperformed the other models, achieving an accuracy of 92.25% (based on 10-fold cross-validation) when all five features were used. Incorporating sentiment analysis enhanced prediction performance across all models, with an average accuracy improvement of 3.85%. Ablation analysis confirmed the significant role of sentiment in improving prediction outcomes. Furthermore, a paired samples t-test revealed statistically significant differences in performance metrics when sentiment was included as a feature. This study demonstrates the effectiveness of combining deep learning and sentiment analysis to predict home-based exercise video categories on YouTube, offering valuable insights into content trends and user engagement in the evolving digital fitness landscape.		[Chen, Sheng-Fong] Natl Pingtung Univ Sci & Technol, Dept Recreat Sport & Hlth Promot, Pingtung, Taiwan; [Liu, Yi-Hung] Soochow Univ, Dept Comp Sci & Informat Management, 56,Sect 1,Kueiyang St, Taipei 100, Taiwan; [Liu, Yi-Hung] Soochow Univ, Dept Comp Sci & Informat Management, 56,Sect 1,Kueiyang St, Taipei 100, Taiwan								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001678179600001	44	Article; Article		
J	Bourgain, Maxime; Valdes-Tamayo, Laura; Gey, Louis; Chabre, Claude; Laporte, Sebastien; Rignon-Bret, Christophe; Tapie, Laurent; Poisson, Philippe; Rouch, Philippe; Blanchard, Sylvain								Geometrical comparison between instrumented and non-instrumented mouthguards for rugby: A pilot study								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	1			519	526		10.1177/17479541251382880			FEB 2026	2026	Rugby is a sport with a high injury rate. Much has been done to make the sport safer, particularly in terms of limiting and identifying concussions. Recently, instrumented mouthguards have been developed and used to measure events that may lead to concussion. However, these instrumented mouthguards may not have an appropriate geometry regarding shock absorption and comfort. In addition, there is no specific international standard for instrumented mouthguards. This study proposed a geometric analysis of both instrumented and non-instrumented mouthguards. Ten instrumented mouthguards were analysed and compared with three non-instrumented mouthguards. They were inspected visually, with a 3D envelope scan and with a CT scan. The results showed that the mouthguards did not comply with recommendations such as indentation with the lower teeth which may increase injury or fracture risk.		[Bourgain, Maxime; Valdes-Tamayo, Laura; Gey, Louis; Laporte, Sebastien; Rouch, Philippe] Univ Sorbonne Paris Nord, Arts & Metiers Inst Technol, IBHGC Inst Biomecan Humaine Georges Charpak, EPF Engn Sch, F-75013 Paris, France; [Chabre, Claude; Blanchard, Sylvain] Racing 92 Rugby Club, Sci & Med Dept, Le Plessis Robinson, France; [Rignon-Bret, Christophe] Univ Paris Cite, Unite Rech Biomat Innovants & Interfaces URB2i, URP4462, Montrouge, France; [Tapie, Laurent] Univ Sorbonne Paris Nord, Univ Paris Cite, INSERM, Sante Orale,UMR 1333, Montrouge, France; [Poisson, Philippe] CHU Bordeaux, Dept Dent & Oral Hlth, Bordeaux, France; [Poisson, Philippe] Bordeaux Segalen Univ, Dept Oral Publ Hlth, UFR Odontol, Bordeaux, France; [Poisson, Philippe] INSERM, Sante, Handicap Act Cognit, U1219 Bordeaux,Populat,Hlth, Bordeaux, France; [Bourgain, Maxime] Univ Sorbonne Paris Nord, Arts & Metiers Inst Technol, IBHGC Inst Biomecan Humaine Georges Charpak, EPF Engn Sch, F-75013 Paris, France								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001581881700001	39	Article; Article		
J	Swanson, Tyra; Mikhail, David; Sugimoto, Dai; Soma, David; Jones, Jacob; Radel, Luke								Pediatric bowling injuries presenting to US emergency departments: a descriptive epidemiologic study								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				53	6			448	455		10.1080/00913847.2025.2565145			NOV 2 2025	2025	Objectives: Bowling is a popular youth sport, but despite its popularity, there is limited research on pediatric bowling-related injuries. Therefore, the purpose of the current study was to identify common injury locations and types among pediatric bowlers and assess differences in common injured body locations and diagnoses based on age and sex. Methods: Data were sourced from the National Electronic Injury Surveillance System (NEISS) for the period 2014-2023, focusing on individuals 18 years old or younger. The data sourced from NEISS are raw numbers of cases, not stratified/weighted data. Injuries were categorized by body locations and diagnoses, and chi-square test was performed to compare injury patterns between pre-adolescents (5-10 years) and adolescents (11-18 years), as well as between males and females, with odds ratios (OR) and 95% confidence interval to determine significance. Results: A total of 755 injuries were analyzed: 375 in pre-adolescents and 380 in adolescents, with 399 injuries in males and 356 in females. Overall, the most frequently injured body locations were the finger (30.7%), face (9.3%), wrist (8.6%), knee (7.4%), and lumbar spine (6.8%). Pre-adolescents experienced more finger (OR = 4.00, p < 0.001) and face (OR = 8.00, p < 0.001) injuries, while adolescents had more wrist (OR = 2.38, p = 0.001), knee (OR = 6.63, p < 0.001) and lumbar spine (OR = 4.41, p < 0.001) injuries. Males had a higher frequency of finger injuries (OR = 1.55, p = 0.006), whereas females experienced more wrist injuries (OR = 2.19, p = 0.003). Regarding diagnoses, pre-adolescents had a higher proportion of fractures (OR = 3.40, p < 0.001), contusions/abrasions (OR = 1.74, p = 0.007), lacerations (OR = 8.00, p < 0.001), and crushing injuries (OR = 2.91, p = 0.034), while adolescents had more sprains/strains (OR = 4.78, p < 0.001). Males were more likely to suffer fractures (OR = 2.11, p < 0.001), and females more likely to sustain sprains/strains (OR = 2.32, p < 0.001). Conclusion: These findings suggest that finger, face, and wrist injuries are common among youth bowlers. Differences in injury patterns may be attributed to variations in skeletal maturity, physiology, and experience. These results underscore the need for targeted prevention strategies and further research in pediatric bowling.		[Swanson, Tyra; Soma, David; Radel, Luke] Mayo Clin, Phys Med & Rehabil, 200 First St SW, Rochester, MN 55905 USA; [Mikhail, David; Jones, Jacob] Univ Texas Southwestern Med Ctr Dallas, Orthoped Surg, Dallas, TX 75390 USA; [Sugimoto, Dai] Boston Childrens Hosp, Div Sports Med, Boston, MA USA; [Sugimoto, Dai] Micheli Ctr Sports Injury Prevent, Sports Med Div, Waltham, MA USA; [Jones, Jacob] Scottish Rite Children, Dept Pediat, Dallas, TX USA; [Swanson, Tyra] Mayo Clin, Phys Med & Rehabil, 200 First St SW, Rochester, MN 55905 USA								0							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001580089800001	26	Article; Article		
J	Chun, Sabin; Park, Jong Chul								A qualitative analysis of movement characteristics in success and failure of aerial maneuvers based on torso orientation in professional surfing								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541251383105				2025	One of the keys to success in competitive surfing is mastering aerial skills. Aerials, performed both frontside and backside, should have their movement characteristics examined to identify what contributes to success or failure across a variety of performance levels. In this study, 2554 rides from in competition videos of the World Surf League's 2021-2022 Championship Tour and Challenger Series were analyzed. Frontside-air-reverse (FAR) emerged as the most frequently used maneuver at frontside, and backside-air-reverse (BAR) at backside. The study included 42 male surfers. Evaluated based on 40 distinct movement characteristics, and each maneuver's success or failure were classified. The key movement characteristics for successful FAR include rotation initiated, excessive foot movement, trail valgus presents in landing, width of stance greater than shoulder width, center of mass is located over nose board at initial contact, chest over lead knee, trunk flexion over 45 degrees from vertical, lead arm over toeside rail, trail arm over toeside rail, favour the toeside rail. In BAR, trail arm over toeside rail was confirmed. These results demonstrate movement characteristics for successful aerial skill performance in a various surfing population to frontside and backside. Understanding the movement characteristics that contribute to success or failure can improve athlete performance and contribute to more scientifically based coaching.		[Chun, Sabin] Pukyong Natl Univ Busan, Grad Sch, Dept Phys Educ, Busan, South Korea; [Park, Jong Chul] Pukyong Natl Univ, Div Smart Healthcare, Busan, South Korea; [Park, Jong Chul] Pukyong Natl Univ, Div Smart Healthcare, Busan, South Korea								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001579336100001	28	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Wu, Ying; Fan, Zihan; Wang, Zhou; Lv, Jiawei; Yang, Nan								Effects of Acute and Repeated Ischemic Preconditioning on Recovery from Muscle Fatigue after High-Intensity Swim Training in Male Amateur Swimmers								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				24	3			696	706		10.52082/jssm.2025.696			SEP 2025	2025	This study investigated the effects of acute and repeated ischemic preconditioning (IPC) on recovery following high-intensity swim training. Thirty male amateur freestyle swimmers (21 +/- 1 years, with at least 2 years of training experience) were randomly assigned to one of three groups: sham IPC (SHAM, n = 10, 4x5 min, 20 mmHg), acute IPC (AIPC, n = 10, 4x5 min, 220 mmHg), or repeated IPC (RIPC, n = 10, 7 daysx4x5 min, 220 mmHg). A 7x200m swim incremental load training was conducted 20 minutes after the intervention. External load measures (grip strength, upper limb work, lower limb relative peak torque, average power) and internal load measures [limb circumferences, creatine kinase (CK), malondialdehyde (MDA), glutathione (GSH), superoxide dismutase (SOD), total antioxidant capacity (T-AOC), interleukin-6 (IL-6), C-reactive protein (CRP)] were recorded at baseline, immediately, 24h and 48h post exercise. For external load, RIPC exhibited higher upper limb total work and average power than SHAM at all post-training points (P < 0.05), while AIPC exceeded SHAM at 48h (P < 0.05). For internal load, immediately post-training, RIPC had higher T-AOC, lower MDA and IL-6 than the other two groups (P < 0.05); AIPC showed lower MDA than SHAM (P < 0.05). At 24h, RIPC had higher T-AOC than the other two groups; both RIPC and AIPC had lower MDA and IL-6 than SHAM (P < 0.05). Moreover, RIPC had lower CK than SHAM at 24h and 48h (P < 0.05). Findings indicated that both AIPC and RIPC, compared to SHAM, promoted internal and external recovery following intensive swim training, with RIPC being more effective. These results suggest that incorporating repeated IPC sessions into athletes' training routines could be a practical strategy to optimize recovery and improve subsequent performance.		[Wu, Ying; Fan, Zihan; Wang, Zhou; Lv, Jiawei; Yang, Nan] Beijing Sport Univ, Dept Exercise Physiol, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Wu, Ying; Fan, Zihan; Yang, Nan] Lab Sports Stress & Adaptat Gen Adm Sport, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Wu, Ying] Beijing Sport Univ, 48 Xinxi Rd, Beijing, Peoples R China								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001555631600001	43	Article; Article		
J	Shenhar, Michal; Dar, Gali; Finestone, Aharon; Witchalls, Jeremy; Waddington, Gordon; Fixler, Yaakov; Steinberg, Nili								Does chronic ankle instability involve independent factors? A factor analysis on the Cumberland Ankle Instability Tool in infantry soldiers								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				75				15	20		10.1016/j.ptsp.2025.06.003			SEP 2025	2025	Objective: The Cumberland Ankle Instability Tool (CAIT) has been widely used to evaluate ankle perceived instability. The aim of this study was to determine whether infantry soldiers with and without previous ankle sprain reported different factors within the CAIT, and whether these factors are associated with physical performance. Design: Cross-sectional study. Settings: Military base. Participants: Seven-hundred and nineteen male infantry soldiers aged 18-21, completed the CAIT, previous sprains questionnaire and were assessed for anthropometric and functional abilities (proprioception, dynamic balance and agility). Main outcome measures: Factor analysis was performed on CAIT items, with Eigenvalue set to 1.5. Pearson correlations were performed between the factors extracted and the anthropometrics and functional abilities measurements, and independent T-tests were used to analyze associations between the factors and previous ankle sprains. Results: Three factors were extracted: functional stability (factor 1), ankle rolling (factor 2) and functional performance (factor 3). Significant differences were found in participants' self-rating on factors 1 and 2, between soldiers with and without previous sprain (p < 0.001, p < 0.001 for factors 1-2, respectively). Correlations with anthropometric and functional abilities were weak. Conclusions: CAIT items can be clustered into three factors of perceived instability, providing military clinicians with valuable insights for targeted interventions.		[Shenhar, Michal; Steinberg, Nili] Acad Coll Levinski Wingate, Wingate Campus, Netanya, Israel; [Shenhar, Michal] Univ Haifa, Fac Social Welf & Hlth Studies, Dept Phys Therapy, Haifa, Israel; [Finestone, Aharon] Shamir Med Ctr, Dept Orthoped Surg, Beer Yaagov, Israel; [Witchalls, Jeremy] Univ Canberra, Res Inst Sport & Exercise, Canberra, Australia; [Waddington, Gordon] Univ Canberra, Fac Hlth, Canberra, Australia; [Fixler, Yaakov] Israel Def Forces Med Corps, Tel Hashomer, Israel; [Shenhar, Michal] Univ Haifa, Acad Coll Levinski Wingate, Wingate Campus, Netanya, Israel; [Shenhar, Michal] Univ Haifa, Fac Social Welf & Hlth Studies, Dept Phys Therapy, Wingate Campus, Netanya, Israel								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001538444800001	49	Article; Article		
J	Mills, Brian M.; Whalen, Mena								Competitive Balance in North American Sports Leagues: An Application of Multivariate Change Point Analysis								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				26	8			976	993		10.1177/15270025251373056			DEC 2025	2025	We use recent methodological developments in change point analysis that estimate structural changes in multivariate time series - both in level (mean) and variance - adding to the literature on long-term North American sports league competitive balance tracking. Our method estimates changes by simultaneously examining 9 competitive balance measures that include game uncertainty, playoff uncertainty, and consecutive season uncertainty classifications. This approach provides insight into structural changes in competitive balance not found in other work while also identifying the competitive balance measure(s) most responsible for estimated change points. Additionally, we identify changes to the variance structure of balance, which was not previously considered in the structural change literature. Overall, rival leagues, labor supply increases, expansion, and changes to playoff structures are most commonly concurrent with structural changes. We suggest relevant research extensions for sports economists.		[Mills, Brian M.] Univ Texas Austin, 2109 San Jacinto Blvd, Stop D3700, Austin, TX 78712 USA; [Whalen, Mena] Loyola Univ Chicago, Math & Stat, Chicago, IL USA; [Mills, Brian M.] Univ Texas Austin, 2109 San Jacinto Blvd, Stop D3700, Austin, TX 78712 USA								0							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001577581200001	21	Article; Article		
J	Lopez-Tenorio, Pablo J.; Ruiz-Alba, Jose; Batalla, Jesus de Matias								More than performance: configurational paths from footballer brand image to fans' emotional attachment and brand-related intentions								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				27	1			3	27		10.1108/IJSMS-06-2025-0280			FEB 4 2026	2026	PurposeThis study examines how distinct dimensions of professional football players' brand image influence fans' emotional attachment, and how this attachment subsequently affects fans' behavioral intentions toward brands endorsed by those players.Design/methodology/approachUsing data from 638 Spanish football fans, the study applies structural equation modeling (SEM) and fuzzy-set qualitative comparative analysis (fsQCA) to assess the impact of specific on-field and off-field brand image dimensions on fans' emotional attachment. A dimension-level approach was adopted to capture the unique effects of each dimension, while some were subsequently grouped during the analysis phase for technical validity and analytical parsimony.FindingsSEM results show that fans feel more attached to players excelling on the field, acting as team-oriented leaders, and sharing compelling life stories. Conversely, an emphasis on physical appearance was negatively associated with emotional attachment. Fans' emotional attachment, in turn, had a strong positive effect on behavioral intentions. fsQCA identified two alternative pathways to strong fans' emotional attachment: one based on outstanding performance and emotional storytelling, and another driven by ethical conduct and relational warmth.Research limitations/implicationsThe findings challenge assumptions that esthetic appeal enhances fan engagement and highlights the importance of authentic narratives and ethical behavior in building emotional bonds. The study offers new insights for clubs, sponsors, and athletes seeking to cultivate meaningful and sustainable fan relationships.Practical implicationsThis study offers actionable insights for footballers, clubs, and sponsor brands aiming to deepen fan engagement. It challenges the overemphasis on visual appeal and highlights the power of authentic storytelling, prosocial behavior, and emotional resonance. For footballers, conveying integrity and empathy fosters symbolic connection. Clubs can strengthen brand identity by promoting team-oriented and ethical conduct. Sponsors, in turn, benefit from aligning with players whose profiles combine performance with relational and moral traits. The configurational approach reveals multiple paths to influence, encouraging brands to prioritize athlete-brand congruence and authenticity over superficial visibility.Originality/valueThis study offers a novel contribution by combining SEM and fsQCA to examine how distinct dimensions of footballers' brand image influence fan attachment and brand-related intentions. Rather than treating brand image as a unitary construct, it applies a dimension-level and configurational approach to uncover asymmetric, multi-path relationships. Findings challenge conventional emphasis on visual traits and highlight ethical conduct and emotional narratives as key drivers of fan bonding. This is the first study to apply fsQCA to athlete branding in football, offering a replicable framework for understanding the symbolic and relational foundations of athlete-fan connections.		[Lopez-Tenorio, Pablo J.] UNIE Univ, Madrid, Spain; [Ruiz-Alba, Jose] Univ Malaga, Malaga, Spain; [Lopez-Tenorio, Pablo J.] UNIE Univ, Madrid, Spain								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001573072800001	66	Article; Article		
J	Berger, Artur G.; Carvalho, Humberto M.; Cardoso, Marcelo F. S.; Oliveira, Jonatan; Delavald, Vitor A.; Pinto, Ronei S.; Leonardi, Thiago J.								Longitudinal Development of Physical Fitness in Young Football Players: A Bayesian Analysis								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				97	1			114	123		10.1080/02701367.2025.2558190			JAN 2 2026	2026	This study investigated developmental changes in body size and physical fitness parameters in 76 young football players (12.22 +/- 1.20 years; CI: 10.59-15.04 years) from a Brazilian club across 20 months. Players performed jumping, agility, intermittent endurance, and sprint tests. A Bayesian multilevel regression modeling approach was used to analyze performance relative to both chronological age (CA) and age at peak height velocity (PHV). The results indicate that stature and body mass increased non-linearly, while skinfold measurements remained stable across the period investigated. Physical fitness performance aligned more consistently with age at PHV than CA, and Bayesian models accounting for age at PHV exhibit greater homogeneity. These findings emphasize the importance of considering biological maturation when interpreting body size and performance changes in young football players. Considering both CA and age at PHV helps select more suitable training strategies throughout the long-term development process and enhances fairness while reducing the risk of overlooking potential talents in the athlete selection process.		[Berger, Artur G.; Cardoso, Marcelo F. S.; Oliveira, Jonatan; Delavald, Vitor A.; Pinto, Ronei S.; Leonardi, Thiago J.] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Sul, Porto Alegre, Brazil; [Carvalho, Humberto M.] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Florianopolis, Brazil; [Berger, Artur G.] Univ Fed Rio Grande Sul UFRGS, Escola Educ Fis Fisioterapia & Danca, Rua Felizardo,750,Bairro Jardim Bot, BR-90690200 Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001573932200001	65	Article; Article		
J	Bartlett, Rogan J.; Scanlan, Aaron T.; Elsworthy, Nathan; Bowe, Steve; Shirley, Stephanie K.; Guy, Joshua H.								Reliability, Sensitivity, and Construct Validity of Drop Jump and Barbell Velocity Assessments to Determine Neuromuscular Status in Professional, Male Basketball Players								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				97	1			95	102		10.1080/02701367.2025.2555206			JAN 2 2026	2026	Pragmatic monitoring methods to assess neuromuscular status (NMS) can offer useful insight regarding player recovery and readiness to perform in basketball contexts. Consequently, this novel study investigated the reliability, sensitivity, and construct validity of drop jump and barbell velocity tests in assessing NMS in basketball players. Twelve professional, male players (26.3 +/- 2.2 years) were initially assessed across retest trials to determine the reliability and sensitivity of reactive strength index (RSI) from the drop jump and barbell mean propulsive velocity (MPV) from the trap bar deadlift. The construct validity of these approaches was assessed by comparing RSI and MPV measurements taken immediately before (baseline), immediately after, and 36 hr following a basketball-specific fatiguing protocol. Relatively strong reliability was demonstrated in drop jump RSI (ICC = 0.80; CV = 6.99%) and barbell MPV (ICC = 0.76; CV = 4.96%). Drop jump RSI and barbell velocity demonstrated okay and good sensitivity in detecting moderate changes, respectively. Nonsignificant (p > .05) small-to-moderate differences in drop jump RSI and trivial differences in barbell MPV were apparent between time points. The drop jump and trap bar deadlift tests may provide reliable measures, sensitive to moderate changes in performance, but appear limited in detecting changes in NMS surrounding high-load basketball activity. The greater sensitivity and simplicity of the drop jump indicate it may potentially be the more pragmatic approach. However, future research should explore the effect various fatiguing stimuli have on drop jump RSI and barbell MPV to better understand their validity as monitoring methods.		[Bartlett, Rogan J.; Scanlan, Aaron T.; Elsworthy, Nathan; Shirley, Stephanie K.; Guy, Joshua H.] Cent Queensland Univ, Cairns, Australia; [Bartlett, Rogan J.; Shirley, Stephanie K.; Guy, Joshua H.] Cairns Taipans Basketball Club, Cairns, Australia; [Bowe, Steve] Victoria Univ Wellington, Wellington, New Zealand; [Bowe, Steve] Deakin Univ, Geelong, Australia; [Bartlett, Rogan J.] Cent Queensland Univ, Cairns Campus,Cairns Sq,Corner Abbott & Shields St, Cairns, Qld 4870, Australia								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001575276100001	37	Article; Article		
J	Kato, Mamiko; Yanai, Toshimasa								Are typical fastballs for a given throwing arm angle easier to hit? A game analysis of US Major League Baseball								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	4			2368	2378		10.1177/17479541251378897			AUG 2026	2026	Fastballs with greater upward vertical break ("rise") are believed to induce missed swings. However, batters may use learned associations between pitchers' throwing arm angles and ball kinematics to predict the trajectory. Even with identical kinematics, batters may respond differently when ball kinematics deviate from expectations based on arm angle. We tested a hypothesis that fastballs typical for a given arm angle are easier to hit in Major League Baseball. We analyzed ball-tracking data from 297 pitchers throwing >150 fastballs swung at during the 2023-2024 seasons. Preliminary regression analysis showed that arm angle explained 67% of the variance in spin axis, so we used the residuals to define a deviation score, representing the atypicality of spin axis for each arm angle. Multiple regression analysis tested whether the variance in Whiff% (missed swings/total swings) was explained by the deviation score and covariates in each pitcher-batter handedness matchup. All variables together explained 41%-52% of the variance in Whiff% (p < .001). The quadratic terms of the deviation score were insignificant, rejecting our hypothesis. In same-side matchups, spin axis showed a positive association with Whiff% while the deviation score showed a negative association, indicating that pitchers whose fastballs had an axis more inclined toward horizontal had lower Whiff%, but those with an axis more inclined toward horizontal for a given arm angle achieved higher Whiff%. These findings suggest that in recent games, fastballs with an axis atypically inclined toward horizontal, potentially generating greater rise, induce more missed swings than fastballs merely having greater rise.		[Kato, Mamiko] Toyo Univ, Fac Hlth & Sports Sci, 1-7-11 Akabanedai,Kita Ku, Tokyo, Japan; [Yanai, Toshimasa] Waseda Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Saitama, Japan; [Yanai, Toshimasa] Waseda Univ, Res Inst Baseball Sci, Saitama, Japan; [Kato, Mamiko] Toyo Univ, Fac Hlth & Sports Sci, 1-7-11 Akabanedai,Kita Ku, Tokyo, Japan								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001575048600001	37	Article; Article		
J	Tondelli, Eduardo; Tomaghelli, Luciano; Tedesco, Franco; Feroldi, Alejo; Herbella, Juan; Baldjian, Agustin; Van Dyk, Nicol								Exploring Eccentric Hamstring Strength: Peak Force, Torque, and Impulse Metrics in Elite Academy Soccer Players								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				97	1			68	76		10.1080/02701367.2025.2544836			JAN 2 2026	2026	This study aimed to characterize eccentric strength metrics and the bilateral asymmetry index of the knee flexor muscles across different categories in elite academy soccer players. Also, explore correlations between the metrics with demographic characteristics. With a cross-sectional design, data were collected over two weeks during the mid-year break of the 2023 season. Eccentric muscle strength was assessed with the Nordic Hamstring Exercise (NHE) with the NordBord (R). One hundred thirty-two male elite academy soccer players between 13 and 20 years old (16.3 +/- 2.2 years; body mass (BM): 68.8 +/- 6.5 kg; height: 174 +/- 7 cm) competing in the Argentinian Football League participated. Metrics included were relative and absolute peak force (PF), peak torque (PT), and eccentric impulse (EI). Bilateral asymmetry index (BAI) was calculated for each metric. Eccentric PF, PT, and EI significantly increased with age. BAI decreased from the U17 category onward. Moderate correlations were observed between PF and PT with BM (r = 0.45, p < .001, 95% CI: 0.31-0.58; and r = 0.54, p < .001, 95% CI: 0.41-0.65, respectively), and PF with body mass index (BMI) (r = 0.37, p < .001, 95% CI: 0.22-0.51). EI had weaker correlations with BM (r = 0.12, p < .1665, 95% CI: -0.061-0.3). PF and PT peaked at the U17 and declined in older categories. To conclude, this study found higher eccentric hamstring strength values in elite youth soccer players than previously reported. PF showed moderate correlation with BMI, while EI had weak correlations with BM. Significant age-related variations in BAI were observed, particularly in younger players.		[Tondelli, Eduardo; Tedesco, Franco; Feroldi, Alejo; Herbella, Juan; Baldjian, Agustin] Univ Buenos Aires, Buenos Aires, Argentina; [Tondelli, Eduardo; Feroldi, Alejo; Herbella, Juan; Baldjian, Agustin] Club Atlet Huracan, Buenos Aires, Argentina; [Tomaghelli, Luciano] Univ Salvador, Buenos Aires, Argentina; [Van Dyk, Nicol] Univ Coll Dublin, Dublin, Ireland; [Van Dyk, Nicol] Univ Pretoria, Pretoria, South Africa; [Tondelli, Eduardo] Univ Buenos Aires, Fac Ciencias Med, Ctr Estudios Deporte & Act Fis CEDAFUBA, Ciudad Buenos Aires 2155, RA-1121 Buenos Aires, Argentina								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001571395900001	56	Article; Article		
J	Steel, Kylie A.; O'Shea, Michelle; Brooks, Cristy; Hagstrom, Amanda D.; Nelson, Monica								An intersectional approach: Carving out a contemporary research and practice agenda (with and for) female athletes								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	6			2687	2692		10.1177/17479541251372927			DEC 2025	2025	The enhanced visibility and support for women's sports, represented by events including the 2023 FIFA Women's World Cup, and gender parity at the 2024 Paris Olympic Games (half of the competing athletes were women) are noteworthy. Despite these gains research with and for cisgender female athletes remains underdeveloped. Presently the majority of sports science research is based on male athletes. Accordingly, these studies do not address the intersectional experiences of cisgender females, contributing to significant knowledge gaps. Currently, testing and training protocols do not adequately address their efficacy among cisgender female athlete cohorts, especially in relation to fluctuating hormones, differences in body composition and biomechanics, and sociocultural influences including overall training history and movement literacies. Accordingly, this commentary identifies and critically discusses the complexities associated with this research and knowledge gap (including gender inequities, biological differences, and environmental influences), while urging a more inclusive, intersectional approach to research, training, and policy to better support cisgender female athletes' health and athletic performance.		[Steel, Kylie A.; Brooks, Cristy] Western Sydney Univ, Sch Hlth Sci, Sydney, Australia; [Steel, Kylie A.] Western Sydney Univ, MARCS Inst, Sydney, Australia; [Steel, Kylie A.; O'Shea, Michelle; Brooks, Cristy] Western Sydney Univ, THRI, Sydney, Australia; [Steel, Kylie A.] Western Sydney Univ, WLCE, Sydney, Australia; [O'Shea, Michelle] Western Sydney Univ, Sch Business, Sydney, Australia; [Brooks, Cristy] Western Sydney Univ, DOMTRU, Sydney, Australia; [Hagstrom, Amanda D.] Univ New South Wales, Fac Med & Hlth, Sch Hlth Sci, Sydney, Australia; [Nelson, Monica] Univ Waikato, Te Huataki Waiora Sch Hlth, Hamilton, New Zealand; [Steel, Kylie A.] Western Sydney Univ, Sch Hlth Sci, Sydney, Australia; [Steel, Kylie A.] Western Sydney Univ, MARCS Inst, Sydney, Australia; [Steel, Kylie A.] Western Sydney Univ, THRI, Sydney, Australia; [Steel, Kylie A.] Western Sydney Univ, WLCE, Sydney, Australia								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001570282700001	39	Article; Article		
J	Schlimm, Joern; Breuer, Christoph								Understanding the factors that drive AI adoption among sports consumers - an extended TAM perspective								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				27	1			174	198		10.1108/IJSMS-05-2025-0225			FEB 4 2026	2026	PurposeThis paper explores the factors driving the adoption of artificial intelligence (AI) in the sports industry from a passive sports consumer perspective. Grounded in an extended Technology Acceptance Model, the study investigates how perceived benefits and perceived ease of use affect sports consumers' intention to use AI. The study also examines social influence, personal innovativeness in IT (PIIT) and team identification as antecedents of perceived benefits and perceived ease of use.Design/methodology/approachA survey-based quantitative research design was employed, gathering responses from 639 sports consumers aged 18-60. Data were analyzed using structural equation modeling.FindingsThe study finds that perceived benefits and ease of use are key drivers of consumers' intention to use AI. While social influence and PIIT both influence perceived benefits and perceived ease of use, PIIT also has a direct impact on intention to use AI. Team identification impacts perceived benefits and moderates the link between ease of use and intention to use AI. Findings also indicate generational differences.Research limitations/implicationsA primary limitation of this study lies in the broad and evolving scope of AI. AI encompasses a diverse range of technologies and applications, which makes it difficult to anticipate all possible future uses in the context of consumer engagement in sports. This research focused on a specific subset of AI-powered tools, including virtual assistants, chatbots, match predictions, information retrieval systems, content personalization and statistical analysis aimed at enhancing consumer knowledge.Practical implicationsAI applications should be both beneficial and easy to use, offering personalized content and intuitive interfaces to appeal to mainstream and less tech-savvy users. Social influence plays a key role, so embedding AI tools within trusted supporter communities can boost acceptance. Tailored strategies should also account for preferences of different target groups. Crucially, AI tools must reinforce emotional team connections while respecting traditional fan experiences to foster engagement, loyalty and broad-based adoption.Originality/valueThis study contributes to contemporary research by assessing AI adoption in the sports industry from a consumer perspective, integrating their psychological attachment into the TAM. Practically, the results provide sports organizations with tailored strategies to enhance consumer engagement through intuitive, personalized and socially endorsed AI applications.		[Schlimm, Joern; Breuer, Christoph] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Sport Econ & Sport Management, Cologne, Germany; [Schlimm, Joern] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Sport Econ & Sport Management, Cologne, Germany								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001566422400001	85	Article; Article		
J	Ogata, Takato; Takabayashi, Tomoya; Toma, Haruki; Kikumoto, Takanori; Kubo, Masayoshi								Differences in the rotation angles of the upper, middle, and lower thoracic spine, lumbar spine, and pelvis during front crawl swimming								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	12			3692	3705		10.1080/14763141.2025.2555368			DEC 2 2025	2025	Body roll during front crawl swimming refers to spinal rotation along the longitudinal axis. It is typically evaluated at the shoulders and pelvis; however, the middle and lower thoracic and lumbar spine are overlooked. Therefore, we aimed to investigate the differences in rotation angles and peak timing across the upper (shoulder roll), middle and lower thoracic spine, lumbar spine, and pelvis (hip roll) during front crawl swimming. This study included 16 healthy swimmers. Participant had five inertial measurement units attached to the spinous processes and performed a 50 m front crawl swim. We measured and compared peak rotation angle and timing on the breathing side across the spinal segments. The upper thoracic spine (67.5 +/- 13.6 degrees) exhibited the greatest rotation, followed by the middle thoracic (55.2 +/- 13.6 degrees), which exceeded the lower thoracic (46.1 +/- 12.2 degrees), lumbar spine (46.3 +/- 11.7 degrees), and pelvis (46.5 +/- 9.0 degrees). No significant differences were found among angles of lower thoracic spine, lumbar spine, and pelvis, nor in peak timing across all segments. A significant positive correlation was observed between thoracic torsion and upper thoracic rotation angles. Study findings highlighted the importance of evaluating the middle thoracic spine along with shoulder and hip roll.		[Ogata, Takato; Toma, Haruki] Niigata Univ Hlth & Welf, Grad Sch, Niigata, Japan; [Ogata, Takato; Takabayashi, Tomoya; Toma, Haruki; Kikumoto, Takanori; Kubo, Masayoshi] Niigata Univ Hlth & Welf, Inst Human Movement & Med Sci, Niigata, Japan; [Ogata, Takato] Niigata Univ Hlth & Welf, Grad Sch, Niigata, Japan; [Ogata, Takato] Niigata Univ Hlth & Welf, Inst Human Movement & Med Sci, Niigata, Japan								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001566083000001	28	Article; Article		
J	Bhaduri, Moinak								Change-points in cricket run-scoring with permuted trends: Applications through functional alignment and outlier detection in excitement quantification and bolstering advocacy								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	3			1548	1571		10.1177/17479541251372708			JUN 2026	2026	Supervised statistical techniques - such as predicting runs or wickets or outcomes of specific deliveries, or optimal field placements, players' worth and contribution - have been deployed to explore a cricket match with a regularity verging on obsession. While goals that fuel these interests are vital and worth pursuing, scant attention has been paid to test whether the (potentially) economic purpose that animates this line of work ignores how or why the sport enthralls, and, occasionally, overwhelms its audience. In this work, we erect a firm bridge that connects excitement patterns of different kinds of sports. The tool helps check whether a new sport could merit a permanent place in global platforms such as the Olympics. Fundamental to the construction are change-points which detect moments of deviation from an ongoing trend. Through novel statistics and permuted trends, we detect these points in utility rate differentials for cricket, and effective playing spaces for soccer. These points locate where interest gets generated. Through the proximities of those change-points, we construct excitement meters, which, applied on 124 T20 tournament-season combinations, unearth 14 functional outliers and two (phase and amplitude-based) alignment clusters, showing how T20 cricket matches attain an optimum balance between unpredictability and chaosless-ness. We, therefore, focus more on entire cricketing tournaments and on the overall health of the sport than on a specific match. This shift sheds vital light on how cricket fares similarly to other sports such as soccer that are already included in the Olympics. Using excitement measurement as an example, we point out other far-reaching potentials of this motivational broadening.		[Bhaduri, Moinak] Bentley Univ, Dept Math Sci, 175 Forest St, Waltham, MA 02452 USA; [Bhaduri, Moinak] Bentley Univ, Dept Math Sci, 175 Forest St, Waltham, MA 02452 USA								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001563874900001	53	Article; Article		
J	Phillips, Kieran; Jowett, Sophia; Krukowska-Burke, Aleksandra; Rhind, Daniel J. A.								Building strong partnerships: Understanding the mechanisms by which quality coach-athlete relationships affect objective performance in professional cricket								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	1			19	29		10.1177/17479541251371558			FEB 2026	2026	The purpose of the study was to explore possible explanations for the link between the quality of a coach-athlete relationship (CAR) and performance in professional cricket. Understanding the mechanisms through which CARs influence on-field performance may provide practical insights for sport practitioners including coaches. A total of 54 (28 male and 26 female) professional cricketers from the United Kingdom completed a survey measuring CAR quality, communication strategies, psychological safety, and collective efficacy, along with performance data from 50,159 deliveries across the 2023 county championship and Rachel-Heyhoe Flint trophy. Bootstrap analysis of the main variables of the study revealed that CAR quality positively predicted skill execution performance in bowlers (line and length target area %). Parallel mediation models also found that communication strategies (i.e., conflict management and openness), psychological safety, and collective efficacy explained the association between CAR and cricket performance. This research explains the link between CAR and on-field objective performance, suggesting potential reasons for performance success and failure. It paves the way for additional research that aims to explain the impact of social-environmental and interpersonal factors on objective performance.		[Phillips, Kieran; Jowett, Sophia; Krukowska-Burke, Aleksandra; Rhind, Daniel J. A.] Loughborough Univ, Sch Sport Exercise & Hlth Sci, Epinal Way, Loughborough LE11 3TU, England; [Phillips, Kieran] Loughborough Univ, Sch Sport Exercise & Hlth Sci, Epinal Way, Loughborough LE11 3TU, England								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001563752100001	67	Article; Article		
J	Qiao, Wei; Hua, Kai; Zhang, Jincheng; Song, Dingding; Li, Jie; Chen, Xiaolong; Liang, Dong								Higher Heart Rate Intensity Can Negatively Impact Tactical Decision-Making and Technical Accuracy in Small-Sided Games: A Study on The Effects of Field Size and Scoring Method Manipulation								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				24	3			522	531		10.52082/jssm.2025.522			SEP 2025	2025	This study investigated how varying task constraints-pitch size and the presence of a goal-affect psychophysiological intensity, technical execution, and tactical decision-making in small-sided games (SSGs). The study also examined correlations between intensities and technical and tactical performance. Thirty-six regional-level male youth soccer players (aged 16.5 +/- 0.5 years) participated in a four-week intervention using a non-controlled, repeated-measures design within a single cohort. Players completed 3v3 SSGs under six conditions combining three pitch sizes (75, 100, and 125 m2 per player) and two task goals (ball possession vs. small goals). Each session included standardized warmups and three 4-minute bouts per condition. Psychophysiological responses were measured via Rating of Perceived Exertion (RPE) and heart rate monitoring (HRmean, % time in Zone 5). Technical actions (passes, receptions, dribbles, shots) and tactical decisionmaking (Passing Decision-Making index) were assessed through video-based analysis. Significant interactions (p < 0.001) between field size and scoring method were found for HR measures and passing. Ball possession games showed higher HRmean and HR Zone 5 across all field sizes compared to small-goal games (p < 0.001). However, even in small-goal games, HRmean and HR Zone 5 significantly increased with larger field sizes (p < 0.001). Small-goal games resulted in more successful dribbles (p < 0.001), with fewer successful passes on the smallest field. A moderate negative correlation was observed between HRmean and successful shots (r =-0.346, p = 0.039), and between time in HR Zone 5 and the passing decision-making index (r =-0.363, p = 0.029). The study suggests that both field size and scoring method significantly influence players' physiological responses, technical performance, and decision-making. Ball possession games and larger fields increase physical intensity and passing success, while smaller fields and small-goal games promote dribbling. However, higher physiological strain appears to negatively impact shooting effectiveness and decision-making quality, although these correlations are moderate and no definitive conclusions can be drawn or generalized.		[Qiao, Wei; Chen, Xiaolong] Anqing Normal Univ, Coll Phys Educ, Anqing 246133, Peoples R China; [Qiao, Wei] Swansea Univ, Sch Social Sci, Swansea, Wales; [Hua, Kai] Wuhan Sports Univ, Wuhan, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Jincheng] Gangneung Wonju Natl Univ, Gangneung Si, South Korea; [Song, Dingding] Shandong Univ Art & Design, Jinan, Peoples R China; [Li, Jie] Anqing Med Coll, Anqing, Peoples R China; [Liang, Dong] Beijing Sport Univ, China Football Coll, Beijing 100084, Peoples R China; [Qiao, Wei] Anqing Normal Univ, Coll Phys Educ, Anqing 246133, Peoples R China; [Liang, Dong] Beijing Sport Univ, China Football Coll, Beijing 100084, Peoples R China								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:001521410500001	36	Article; Article		
J	Liu, Tongzheng; Li, Mingbang; Pu, Xiaoyan								Using Game-Based Compensatory Strategies in Non-Starter Soccer Players: Analyzing The Impact on Physical Fitness Development								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				24	3			495	502		10.52082/jssm.2025.495			SEP 2025	2025	<table><tbody> <tr> <td> The purpose of this study was to compare the effects of small-sided game-based compensatory strategies (CS) versus non-compensatory (NCS) strategies on the aerobic and repeated sprint ability development of non-starter soccer players. A controlled crossover experimental design was used, consisting of two 4-week phases separated by a 2-week washout period. Nineteen male non-starter soccer players (age: 18.1 +/- 0.7 years) participated in the study. Each player experienced both an NCS and a specific CS, the latter involving six 3-minute bouts of 2v2 small-sided games performed the day after the match. CS indicates that additional training was introduced to compensate for the lack of playing time. This intervention was applied to players who either did not participate in the match or played less than 15 minutes. Physical fitness was assessed using the Yo-Yo Intermittent Recovery Test Level 1 (YYIRT) and the Running-Based Anaerobic Sprint Test (RSAmean). Significant interactions were found for YYIRT (p < 0.001, eta p(2) = 0.587, large effects) and RSAmean (p < 0.001, eta p(2) = 0.739, large effects). CS presented better results than NCS in YYIRT at both mid (mean difference: 84.4m, p = 0.040) and post-assessment (mean difference: 64.7m, p = 0.042). RSAmean was smaller under CS at mid (mean difference: -0.078 s, p = 0.012) and post-assessment (mean difference: -0.058s, p = 0.045). In conclusion, the results suggest that the CS condition leads to better YYIRT performance and reduced RSAmean compared to NCS. Practically, incorporating CS into training protocols for players who do not regularly participate in matches - such as unselected players or non-starters with limited playing time - may help maintain physical capacities, particularly endurance and repeated sprint ability, as these players are often exposed to lower physical demands during matches. </td> </tr> <tr> <td> </td> </tr></tbody> </table>		[Liu, Tongzheng; Pu, Xiaoyan] Nanchong Vocat Coll Culture & Tourism, Nanchong, Peoples R China; [Li, Mingbang] Geely Univ China, Coll Phys Educ & Hlth, Chengdu, Peoples R China; [Pu, Xiaoyan] Nanchong Vocat Coll Culture & Tourism, Nanchong, Peoples R China								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001514034700001	20	Article; Article		
J	He, Xinyi; Wang, Jingjing; Yang, Jing								Does The Timing of High-Intensity Interval Training Affect Technical Accuracy Under Fatigue? An Experimental Study in Basketball Players								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				24	3			676	683		10.52082/jssm.2025.676			SEP 2025	2025	The scheduling (i.e., timing) of high-intensity interval training (HIIT) during basketball sessions may influence physical development and technical-tactical execution under fatigue, yet limited evidence exists to guide practice. This study compared the effects of early-session HIIT (HIITearly) versus post-session HIIT (HIITpost) on aerobic fitness and technical performance under fatigue in youth basketball players. Thirty-six male athletes (16.5 +/- 0.7 years) were stratified and randomly assigned to HIITearly, HIITpost, or control groups in a six-week intervention (2 sessions/week). All groups followed the same HIIT protocol; only timing varied. Physical fitness was assessed via the 30-15 Intermittent Fitness Test (VIFT), and technical accuracy for passes, dribles and shots was assessed during a 3v3 game conducted immediately after the 30-15 test. Results showed a significant improvement in VIFT for both HIIT groups (HIITearly: p < 0.001; HIITpost: p < 0.001), with no change in the control group (p = 0.705). HIITearly led to greater improvements than control in passes accuracy (p < 0.001), shot accuracy (p < 0.001), and dribble accuracy (p < 0.001). HIITpost showed smaller, yet significant, improvements in passes (p < 0.001), shots (p < 0.001), and dribbles (p < 0.001), while the control group exhibited only minor changes. Statistical interactions for all technical variables were significant, with particularly large effects for passes (eta p(2) = 0.678), dribbles (eta p(2) = 0.600), and shots (eta p(2) = 0.610). These findings suggest that both HIIT modalities improve physical and technical capacities under fatigue, with early-session HIIT potentially offering benefits for technical accuracy. However, definitive conclusions should be avoided due to the highly contextual nature of the results. Coaches may consider scheduling HIIT prior to skill-focused activities to maximize performance under fatigue conditions in youth basketball.		[He, Xinyi; Wang, Jingjing; Yang, Jing] ChengDu Sports Univ, Chengdu 610041, Peoples R China; [Wang, Jingjing] ChengDu Sports Univ, Chengdu 610041, Peoples R China								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:001553014100001	22	Article; Article		
J	Zebrowska, Aleksandra; Sikora, Marcin; Mikolajczyk, Rafal; Gerasimuk, Dagmara; Thuany, Mabliny; Weiss, Katja; Knechtle, Beat; Hall, Barbara								Effects of High Intensity Interval Training in Normobaric Hypoxia on Aerobic Performance and Exercise-Induced Motor Performance Fatigue in Young Biathletes								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				24	3			613	625		10.52082/jssm.2025.613			SEP 2025	2025	<table><tbody> <tr> <td> This study investigated the effect of high-intensity interval training (HIIT) in normobaric hypoxia on aerobic performance in young biathlon athletes. In addition, the study aimed to assess the impact of training in hypoxia on the mechanisms of exercise-induced motor performance fatigue. In a randomized, controlled crossover study twelve athletes (age 15.7 +/- 1.0 years) completed a HIIT in normobaric hypoxia (hypoxia training) (fraction of inspired oxygen, FiO2 = 15.2%) and normoxia (normoxia training) in a randomized order. The HIIT was performed 3 days/week for 6 weeks (3 weeks in hypoxia and 3 weeks in normoxia, with a 3 week wash-out period in between) and consisted of 5 x 4 minutes running (80% of peak oxygen uptake), separated by 3 minutes of active recovery and 4 x 1minute arm cranking (60% peak power), interspersed with a 2 minute rest. Peak oxygen uptake (VO2peak), hypoxia-inducible factor 1 alpha (HIF1 alpha), vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), pro-inflammatory cytokines, muscle damage biomarkers and total antioxidant status were analyzed before and after both training protocols (HT and NT). A significant effect of hypoxia on VO2peak (eta p(2) = 0.321, p = 0.044) and hypoxia and training on VO2LT and haemoglobin concentrations (eta p(2) = 0.689 p = 0.001) were observed. The VO2peak was significantly higher post-HT compared to pre-HT (p < 0.01). A significant effect of oxygen conditions and training on the serum post-exercise VEGF (eta p(2) = 0.352, p = 0.033) and myoglobin concentrations (eta p(2) = 0.647 p = 0.001) was found. A significant effect of hypoxia was also observed for cytokines levels: interleukin-6 (eta p(2) = 0.324 p = 0.042), tumour necrosis factor alpha (eta p(2) = 0.474 p = 0.009) and transforming growth factor beta (eta p(2)= 0.410, p = 0.018) with a non-significant effect on antioxidant status. This study shows significant differences in the aerobic performance and biomarkers of muscle damage after exposure to hypoxia training. These findings highlight that HIIT in hypoxia is sufficient to enhance aerobic performance and may also reduce skeletal muscle susceptibility to fatigue in young biathletes. </td> </tr> <tr> <td> </td> </tr></tbody> </table>		[Zebrowska, Aleksandra; Sikora, Marcin; Gerasimuk, Dagmara; Hall, Barbara] Acad Phys Educ, Inst Sport Sci, Katowice, Poland; [Mikolajczyk, Rafal] Acad Phys Educ, Dept Physiol, Katowice, Poland; [Thuany, Mabliny] Univ Porto, Fac Sport, Porto, Portugal; [Weiss, Katja; Knechtle, Beat] Univ Zurich, Inst Primary Care, Zurich, Switzerland; [Knechtle, Beat] Medbase St Gallen Vadianplatz, St Gallen, Switzerland; [Zebrowska, Aleksandra] Acad Phys Educ, Inst Sport Sci, Katowice, Poland								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001540092700001	91	Article; Article		
J	Hu, Chenxi; Du, Ning; Li, Yanfeng; Girard, Olivier; Mei, Tao								Enhancing Jump Performance Through Blood Flow Restriction Squat Exercise: A Muscle Synergy Analysis Using Wavelet Packet Transformation								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				24	3			578	588		10.52082/jssm.2025.578			SEP 2025	2025	To explore neuromuscular control during blood flow restriction (BFR) squat exercise using wavelet packet transform (WPT) combined with non-negative matrix factorization (NMF). Fifteen resistance-trained males completed four sets of squats at 40% arterial occlusion pressure. Countermovement jump (CMJ) height and reactive strength index modified (RSImod) alongside surface electromyographic activity from eight lower-limb muscles were assessed before after the exercise. CMJ height and RSImod significantly increased post-exercise (P < 0.001, Cohen's d = 0.45 and 0.34, respectively). Four muscle synergy modules were consistently identified, though primary muscle contributions shifted across movement phases. The tibialis anterior (TA) was the primary contributor in Synergy1, while the gastrocnemius lateralis (GL) dominated Synergy 2, accompanied by a significant increase in gluteus maximus (GM) weight (P = 0.032). In Synergy 3, the rectus femoris (RF), vastus lateralis (VL), and vastus medialis (VM) were predominant, with significant changes in GM and VM muscle weights (P = 0.013, 0.039). Synergy 4 was characterized by contributions from the semitendinosus (ST), biceps femoris (BF), and GM, with a significant increase in VL muscle weight (P = 0.024). WPT-NMF analysis revealed distinct time-frequency synergy modules in CMJ movements before and after BFR squat exercise. Significant changes in activation weights were observed within the 0-250 Hz range (P < 0.05). BFR squat exercise acutely enhances countermovement jump performance by refining muscle synergy and neuromuscular activation patterns, providing novel insights into neuromuscular control strategies.		[Hu, Chenxi; Du, Ning; Mei, Tao] Beijing Sport Univ, China Inst Sport & Hlth Sci, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Hu, Chenxi; Li, Yanfeng] Capital Univ Phys Educ & Sports, Inst Artificial Intelligence Sports, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Du, Ning] Chinese Peoples Liberat Army Gen Hosp, Dept Orthopaed, Med Ctr 4, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Girard, Olivier] Univ Western Australia, Sch Human Sci Exercise & Sport Sci, Crawley, WA, Australia; [Mei, Tao] Univ Sci & Technol China, Deqing Alpha Innovat Inst, Hangzhou, Zhejiang, Peoples R China; [Mei, Tao] Beijing Sport Univ, China Inst Sport & Hlth Sci, Beijing, Peoples R China								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:001527976200001	44	Article; Article		
J	Silva, Ana Filipa; Trybulski, Robert; Trybek, Grzegorz; Moska, Waldemar; Aidar, Felipe J.; Gonzalez-Fernandez, Francisco Tomas								Impact of The Menstrual Cycle on Physical Recovery after Small-Sided Games: A Crossover Study in Women's Soccer Players								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				24	3			532	542		10.52082/jssm.2025.532			SEP 2025	2025	The aim of this study was twofold: (i) to compare potential variations in reactive strength index (RSI), interleukin-6 (IL-6), and delayed onset muscle soreness (DOMS) between the early follicular and mid-luteal phases in response to small-sided games (SSGs); and (ii) to analyze potential interactions in the magnitude of responses to different SSG formats, specifically 1v1 and 5v5. A crossover study design was employed, involving 20 amateur female soccer players (age: 21.4 +/- 1.8 years) who were randomly assigned to two groups. With a 15-day interval between sessions, participants underwent repeated assessments following 1v1 and 5v5 formats across two menstrual cycle phases (based on calendar estimates). Participants completed 1v1 and 5v5 sessions and were evaluated at four time points: at rest, immediately post-session, 24 hours post, and 48 hours post. A three-way repeated measures ANOVA was used to assess the effects of play format (1v1, 5v5), hormonal phase (early follicular, mid-luteal), and time (rest, post-exercise, 24h, 48h). RSI was assessed using a drop jump test, IL-6 was measured via salivary analysis, and DOMS was rated using a Likert scale. To control for potential confounders like nutrition, sleep, and training load, participants maintained their regular diet and training during the study, though individual variation in these factors could still affect the results. Significant interactions were found between menstrual cycle phase, format, and time for RSI (p = 0.040; eta p(2) = 0.154) and IL-6 (p < 0.001; eta p(2) = 0.773), but not DOMS (p = 0.121; eta p(2) = 0.283). RSI was significantly lower and IL-6 significantly higher in the mid-luteal phase, especially in 1v1 sessions (RSI: p < 0.001; IL-6: p < 0.001). These findings suggest that neuromuscular fatigue and inflammatory responses to SSGs are modulated by menstrual cycle phase, with potential implications for optimizing training and recovery strategies in female athletes.		[Silva, Ana Filipa] Inst Politecn Viana Castelo, Escola Super Desporto & Lazer, Rua Escola Ind & Comercial Nun Alvares, P-4900347 Viana Do Castelo, Portugal; [Silva, Ana Filipa] Sport Phys Act & Hlth Res & Innovat Ctr, Viana Do Castelo, Portugal; [Trybulski, Robert] Upper Silesian Acad, Med Dept Wojciech Korfanty, Katowice, Poland; [Trybulski, Robert] Provita Zory Med Ctr, Zory, Poland; [Trybek, Grzegorz] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, Dept Sports Med & Hlth, Gdansk, Poland; [Moska, Waldemar] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, Gdansk, Poland; [Aidar, Felipe J.] Univ Fed Sergipe, Aracaju, Brazil; [Aidar, Felipe J.] Univ Fed Sergipe, Dept Phys Educ, Sao Cristovao, Brazil; [Gonzalez-Fernandez, Francisco Tomas] Univ Granada, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sports, Granada, Spain; [Silva, Ana Filipa] Inst Politecn Viana Castelo, Escola Super Desporto & Lazer, Rua Escola Ind & Comercial Nun Alvares, P-4900347 Viana Do Castelo, Portugal								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:001526721300001	55	Article; Article		
J	Enverga III, Manuel								Looking good and moving well: Aesthetic labor imperatives in Les Mills instructors' coaching experiences								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	1			89	96		10.1177/17479541251369779			FEB 2026	2026	This paper examines aesthetic labor in the context of Les Mills (LM) group fitness instruction, focusing on the embodied demands of sounding right and moving well as central coaching imperatives. While existing literature on aesthetic labor often emphasizes physical appearance and verbal polish, this study argues that vocal precision and kinesthetic proficiency are fundamental to effective coaching in LM classes. Drawing on interviews with LM instructors from a gym in Manila, the Philippines, the analysis shows that instructors integrate motivational vocal delivery with skilled movement execution to ensure participant safety, engagement, and enjoyment. Although a fit appearance contributes to an instructor's credibility, it is ultimately their ability to coach through voice and movement that sustains motivation and shapes the workout experience. These findings expand existing frameworks of aesthetic labor by foregrounding communicative and kinesthetic capacities. The paper also contributes to coaching scholarship by recognizing LM instructors as embodied coaches whose work involves relational, performative, and affective practices. It calls for greater scholarly attention to group fitness instruction as a distinct and complex form of coaching.		[Enverga III, Manuel] Ateneo Manila Univ, European Studies Program, Quezon City, Philippines; [Enverga III, Manuel] Ateneo Manila Univ, European Studies Program, Quezon City, Philippines								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001563280300001	38	Article; Article		
J	Yang, Junxian; Qin, Shenglei; Ren, DingMeng								Artificial intelligence coaches on the sidelines: Evaluating readability and quality of soccer training plans from six generative models								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	1			75	81		10.1177/17479541251369593			FEB 2026	2026	Background and Objectives: Generative Artificial Intelligence shows increasing promise for developing personalized training programs in sports science. While previous research has demonstrated its utility in aerobic and resistance training, its effectiveness in generating structured, sport-specific plans for technically demanding, high-contact team sports like soccer remains underexplored. This study aims to assess the readability and quality of soccer training programs generated by six leading generative AI (GAI) models- GPT-4o, GPT-4.5, GPT-o1, GPT-o3-mini, and DeepSeek-R1 and DeepSeek-V3-to assess their feasibility for practical use. Methods: Each model was prompted to create a 30-day soccer training plan following exercise prescription principles. Three expert raters assessed its quality using a ten-point custom rubric covering key exercise prescription components. Readability was evaluated using Flesch-Kincaid metrics. Visualizations were generated in RStudio, and inter-rater reliability was assessed via intraclass correlation coefficients (ICCs). Results: All models produced structured, soccer-specific programs with varying narrative styles and recovery protocols. DeepSeek-R1 yielded the most accessible text (Grade Level 8), while ChatGPT-o3-mini produced the most complex (Grade Level 12). ChatGPT-o1 was the most verbose. Quality scores from raters demonstrated consistency (ICC = 0.79), ranging from 6.00 to 7.00. ChatGPT-o1 received the highest rating, followed by DeepSeek-R1. All models shared common limitations, including the absence of citations and lack of individualized health screening protocols. Conclusion: GAI models demonstrate strong potential for generating soccer training plans, though trade-offs exist. However, the outputs require human oversight to ensure safety, individualization, and scientific rigor. Future research should explore context-aware prompt engineering, multilingual applications, and real-world implementation through coach- and athlete-centered trials.		[Yang, Junxian; Qin, Shenglei; Ren, DingMeng] Beijing Sport Univ, China Football Coll, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Yang, Junxian; Ren, DingMeng] 48 Xinxi Rd, Beijing, Peoples R China								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001560262300001	26	Article; Article		
J	Li, Yijie; Liu, Dongsen; Chang, Hao; Xu, Chunjiang								Test-retest reliability, sensory weighting and clinical efficacy indicators of sensory organization test in chronic ankle instability								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				75				151	157		10.1016/j.ptsp.2025.08.008			SEP 2025	2025	Objectives: To examined: (1) the reliability, minimum detectable change (MDC) and Minimum clinically important difference (MCID) of sensory organization test (SOT) in chronic ankle instability (CAI) individuals. (2) sensory reweighting system changes in individuals with and without CAI. Design: cross-sectional study. Setting: University laboratory. Participants: 80 individuals with CAI and 68 individuals without CAI. Main outcome measure: We examined the equilibrium scores based on 6 environmental conditions of the SOT and calculated the test-retest reliability, MDC90 and MCID of the SOT in both groups. Additionally, we calculated the sensory weighting ratios among the somatosensory, vestibular, and vision systems based on specific SOT conditions. Results: We observed the reliability (ICC) of SOT is 0.65-0.80 and 0.61-0.82 in the CAI and control group. The MDC90 of each index of SOT is 4.50-9.29 and 2.78-9.54 in the CAI and control group. The MCID of each index of the SOT is 3.78-7.80 in the CAI group, and 2.34-8.01 in the control group. Conclusions: The SOT indices demonstrated fair to good reliability. Researchers can use it as a stable balance measurement tool. Although no significant difference in somatosensory weighting was found between the two groups, somatosensory remained the primary source of feedback in postural control.		[Li, Yijie; Liu, Dongsen; Chang, Hao] Beijing Sport Univ, Sch Sports Med & Rehabil, 48 Xinxi Rd, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Xu, Chunjiang] Xinjiang Normal Univ, Inst Phys Educ, 102 Xinyi Rd, Urumqi, Xinjiang, Peoples R China; [Xu, Chunjiang] Xinjiang Normal Univ, Inst Phys Educ, 102 Xinyi Rd, Urumqi, Xinjiang, Peoples R China								1							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001566102600001	45	Article; Article		
J	Belasen, Ariel R.; Belasen, Alan T.; Olbrecht, Alexandre M.								With the Game on the (Betting) Line: NBA Referee Performance in the Last Two Minutes								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				26	8			913	935		10.1177/15270025251369447			DEC 2025	2025	The National Basketball Association (NBA) publishes "Last Two Minute Reports" of referee calls to encourage accountability and a consistent application of the rules. However, recent partnerships with gaming operators have brought referee impartiality into question. This study finds that there is a significant difference in the percentage of incorrect referee calls in games where there is a narrower betting gap between the favored team and the underdog team than in games with a wider betting gap. Incorrect calls and incorrect non-calls are actual referee calls or non-calls that are later found to be wrong based on NBA review standards. Specifically, referees make 23% fewer incorrect calls for visiting team underdogs and 42% fewer incorrect calls for home team underdogs than their favored opponents. Unmitigated incorrect calls may affect the fairness and integrity of game outcomes as well as result in financial consequences for gaming operators and sports bettors.		[Belasen, Ariel R.] Southern Illinois Univ Edwardsville, Dept Econ & Finance, Edwardsville, IL 62026 USA; [Belasen, Alan T.] SUNY Empire State Univ, Sch Business, Saratoga Springs, NY USA; [Olbrecht, Alexandre M.] Ramapo Coll, Anisfield Sch Business, Mahwah, NJ USA; [Belasen, Ariel R.] Southern Illinois Univ Edwardsville, Dept Econ & Finance, Edwardsville, IL 62026 USA								1							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001555048800001	47	Article; Article		
J	Mikhail, David; Sugimoto, Dai; Schultz, Cassidy; Radel, Luke; Soma, David; Ulman, Sophia; Jones, Jacob								Injury epidemiology in young female American football athletes: a 10-year analysis using NEISS data								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				53	6			441	447		10.1080/00913847.2025.2548761			NOV 2 2025	2025	Background American football has traditionally been male-dominated, but female participation in youth football is increasing, especially with the rise of flag football. This study aimed to (1) describe the epidemiology of injured body parts and diagnoses in female youth football athletes, and (2) compare injury patterns between pre-high school (<= 14 years) and high school (>= 15 years) players. Methods American football-related injury data were obtained from the National Electronic Injury Surveillance System (NEISS) from 2012-2021, representing U.S. emergency department visits. All participants were female and <= 18 years. Injuries were classified by body part and diagnosis, then compared between pre-high school and high school groups. Descriptive statistics summarized injury characteristics. Chi-square tests assessed group differences, with odds ratios (OR), 95% confidence intervals (CI), and p-values for significance. NEISS data lack detail on injury context, which may limit interpretation. Results A total of 3,348 injuries were identified: 2,342 in pre-high school and 1,006 in high school athletes. The most common injury sites for both groups were the upper extremity (pre-high school: 57.9%; high school: 43.1%), followed by the lower extremity (22.1% vs. 30.6%) and head/trunk (18.7% vs. 25.1%). Pre-high school athletes sustained proportionally more finger injuries (38.8% vs. 27.1%, p=0.001) and fractures (31.8% vs. 20.4%, p=0.001). High school athletes had higher proportions of head (20.5% vs. 14.1%), ankle (12.7% vs. 10.2%), and knee injuries (10.3% vs. 5.3%) (all p<0.05), as well as more sprains/strains (39.3% vs. 33.9%, p=0.003) and concussions (11.1% vs. 7.4%, p=0.001). Conclusion Injury patterns differ by age among female youth football players. Pre-high school athletes more often sustain finger injuries and fractures, while high school athletes experience more head, ankle, and knee injuries, along with higher rates of sprains/strains and concussions. These differences may reflect variations in physiology and style of play, and findings may inform age-specific injury prevention strategies and guide future research on female football athletes.		[Mikhail, David; Ulman, Sophia; Jones, Jacob] Univ Texas Southwestern Med Ctr, Dept Orthoped, Dallas, TX USA; [Sugimoto, Dai] Boston Childrens Hosp, Div Sports Med, Boston, MA USA; [Sugimoto, Dai] Micheli Ctr Sports Injury Prevent, Div Sports Med, Waltham, MA USA; [Schultz, Cassidy; Ulman, Sophia; Jones, Jacob] Scottish Rite Children, Dept Pediat Orthoped, Dallas, TX USA; [Radel, Luke; Soma, David] Mayo Clin, Dept Pediat, Rochester, MN USA; [Jones, Jacob] Scottish Rite Children, 5700 Dallas Pkwy, Frisco, TX 75034 USA								1							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001554341500001	34	Article; Article		
J	McManus, Hannah; Harper, Liam; Finlay, Mitchell J.								The physical qualities of national league female British American flag football players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	3			1912	1919		10.1177/17479541251366817			JUN 2026	2026	Despite Flag Football being the fastest-growing format of American Football and its recent inclusion in the 2028 Olympics, there is extremely limited research available on the sport, particularly in the female format. The aim of this study was to be the first of its kind to assess physical fitness qualities in female British Flag Football players. Fourteen participants (age 27.6 +/- 4.6 years; height 165.9 +/- 8.4 cm; body mass 79.1 +/- 29.2 kg) currently playing in a national league Women's Flag team performed the following testing battery; Countermovement Jump (CMJ), Squat Jump (SJ), Broad Jump, 20-yard sprint, Pro Agility, and Isometric Mid-thigh Pull (IMTP). Mean +/- SD of physical tests were as follows; CMJ jump height (cm) 25.1 +/- 5.9 and peak power (w.kg-1) 39.1 +/- 7.1; SJ jump height (cm) 24.6 +/- 6.3 and peak power (w.kg-1) 39.3 +/- 6.6; Broad Jump distance (m) 1.89 +/- 0.28, and IMTP relative peak vertical force 30.1 +/- 4.1 (N.kg-1), respectively. Lastly, 20-yard sprint and Pro Agility times were 3.43 +/- 0.28 (s) and 5.36 +/- 0.38 (s), respectively. Trivial-to-small positional differences in performance variables were observed. Several significant large and very large correlations between jump, sprint, and change of direction were noted. This study is the first to report the physical capabilities of female British Flag Football players. The findings of this study may help develop the understanding of a growing and soon to be Olympic sport. Further research may wish to explore strength-training interventions and longer-term monitoring in female flag football.		[McManus, Hannah; Finlay, Mitchell J.] Univ Acad 92, Sport Dept, Old Trafford, Manchester M16 0PU, England; [Harper, Liam] Manchester Metropolitan Univ, Inst Sport, Dept Life Sci, Manchester M1 7EL, England; [Finlay, Mitchell J.] Univ Acad 92, Sport Dept, Old Trafford, Manchester M16 0PU, England								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001553436000001	47	Article; Article		
J	Chan, Zoe Y. S.; Dimmick, Hannah; Ferber, Reed; Cheung, Roy T. H.								Between-session reliability and minimal detectable difference of peak tibial acceleration during running on an indoor track								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				25	4			554	563		10.1080/14763141.2025.2542274			APR 3 2026	2026	Peak tibial acceleration (PTA) is commonly used to assess impact loading during running, but the number of strides required for reliable between-session measurement in overground conditions, as well as the minimal detectable difference (MDD), remains unclear. This study evaluated the one-week and three-week reliability of axial and resultant PTA during overground running and determined the minimum number of strides needed for good and excellent reliability. Eleven recreational runners completed three sessions on a 200-m indoor oval track while wearing a tibial-mounted accelerometer. PTA was analysed across different stride intervals, and test-retest reliability was assessed using intraclass correlation coefficients (ICC). Results showed moderate-to-good reliability for axial PTA (ICC = 0.71-0.80 at 1 week, 0.67-0.84 at 3 weeks) and moderate-to-excellent reliability for resultant PTA (ICC = 0.81-0.94 at 1 week, 0.78-0.91 at 3 weeks). Based on our results, we recommend averaging at least 40 strides to achieve good reliability for axial PTA (MDD = 2.93 g), and at least 100 strides to achieve excellent reliability of resultant PTA (MDD = 2.72 g). These findings support the reliability of PTA when evaluating longer-term interventions, such as gait retraining, but researchers should consider stride variability and track curvature when interpreting results.		[Chan, Zoe Y. S.; Ferber, Reed] Univ Calgary, Fac Kinesiol, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Dimmick, Hannah] Univ Colorado, Dept Obstet & Gynecol, Anschutz Med Campus, Aurora, CO USA; [Cheung, Roy T. H.] Western Sydney Univ, Sch Hlth Sci, Human Movement Lab, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Cheung, Roy T. H.] Western Sydney Univ, Translat Hlth Res Inst, Penrith, NSW, Australia; [Cheung, Roy T. H.] Western Sydney Univ, Sch Hlth Sci, Human Movement Lab, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Cheung, Roy T. H.] Western Sydney Univ, Translat Hlth Res Inst, Penrith, NSW, Australia								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001552226700001	23	Article; Article		
J	Deng, Rongrong; Zhang, Yinkai; Guo, Chenyi; Wang, Kaiwen; Zheng, Kaili; Wu, Ji; Li, Zongrui; Fan, Qingmin; Cui, Yixiong; Wang, Ziyu								Analyzing key technical indicators and stylistic clusters in women's 50 kg boxing								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	1			416	427		10.1177/17479541251369302			FEB 2026	2026	The introduction of the 50-kilogram weight class in women's boxing at the Paris Olympics presents new challenges to athletes and coaching teams, necessitating rapid adaptation and a comprehensive understanding of the technical characteristics of this category. This study aimed to identify key technical indicators influencing match outcomes in the female 50-kilogram weight class and classify boxers into distinct technical styles. Data from 76 matches in the Paris Olympics, World, Continental, and National boxing events were collected, with 23 performance indicators representing offensive techniques, distances, and defensive counterattacks. The results showed that winning athletes had significantly higher performance in several technical aspects. Three technical styles were identified using these key indicators: Boxer-Punchers, Swarmers, and Out-Boxers. Distinctive offensive characteristics played a crucial role in distinguishing winners and identifying high-performance groups, while also highlighting the technical advantages of Olympic medalists. The research findings underscore the importance of accuracy, diversity and comprehensiveness in offensive techniques for success. These insights provide valuable guidance for assessing performance and formulating effective match strategies.		[Deng, Rongrong; Zhang, Yinkai; Fan, Qingmin] Beijing Sport Univ, Sports Coaching Coll, Beijing 100084, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Yinkai] Beijing Sport Univ, China Wushu Sch, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Guo, Chenyi; Wang, Kaiwen; Zheng, Kaili; Wu, Ji; Li, Zongrui] Tsinghua Univ, Dept Elect Engn, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Wu, Ji] Tsinghua Univ, Coll AI, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Wu, Ji] Beijing Natl Res Ctr Informat Sci & Technol, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Cui, Yixiong] Beijing Sport Univ, China Sports Big Data Ctr, Sch Sports Engn, Beijing 100084, Peoples R China; [Wang, Ziyu] Beijing Sport Univ, China Swimming Coll, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Fan, Qingmin] Beijing Sport Univ, Sports Coaching Coll, Beijing 100084, Peoples R China; [Cui, Yixiong] Beijing Sport Univ, China Sports Big Data Ctr, Sch Sports Engn, Beijing 100084, Peoples R China								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001552253200001	43	Article; Article		
J	Peterse, Eline; Bolling, Caroline								Menstrual cycle & Rehabilitation: Perceptions of sports physiotherapists and female recreational athletes								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				75				113	121		10.1016/j.ptsp.2025.08.002			SEP 2025	2025	Objectives: We explored the perceptions of female recreational athletes and sports physiotherapists regarding the integration of the menstrual cycle (MC) in the physiotherapeutic process. Design: Qualitative study. Setting: Online semi-structured interviews. Participants: Nine Dutch sports physiotherapists working in primary care settings and eight female recreational athletes. Main outcome measures: Interviews were audio-recorded, transcribed, and analysed using thematic analysis. Results: The relationship between rehabilitation and the MC was recognized despite the lack of knowledge, considering symptoms and effects, and acknowledged the potential need to adjust treatment. To talk about MC, participants perceived communication challenges, such as the taboo, the influence of the gender of the health professionals and reinforced the need to normalize the conversations. For MC to be integrated in practice, participants acknowledged the need for more knowledge and resources, a clear purpose when discussing and considering the MC in rehabilitation, and the need for research to guide practice. Conclusion: The menstrual health of athletes is not yet integrated into the physiotherapeutic process, despite the recognized importance. Improving communication, knowledge, and research are key to making this topic more openly discussed and allowing more person-centred care, as any adaptation should be tailored to individual experiences and symptoms.		[Peterse, Eline] Sports Performance CoachUtrecht, Eline Peterse, Utrecht, Netherlands; [Bolling, Caroline] Amsterdam Collaborat Hlth & Safety Sports Amsterda, Dept Orthopaed Surg & Sports Med, Meibergdreef 9, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Bolling, Caroline] Amsterdam UMC, Locat AMC, Room K1-207,Meibergdreef 9, NL-1105AZ Amsterdam, Netherlands								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001553899000001	46	Article; Article		
J	Dekkers, Thomas A.; Blake, Catherine; Collins, Kieran D.; McVeigh, Joseph G.; O'Sullivan, Kieran J.								Trunk strength and endurance testing in field-athletes: A reliability study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				75				105	112		10.1016/j.ptsp.2025.07.012			SEP 2025	2025	Objectives: Despite the important role of the trunk muscles in athletic performance and the onset of injury, consensus is lacking as to the best methods to assess trunk strength and endurance in athletic populations in the field. This study aimed to examine the intra-rater reliability of a battery of trunk strength and endurance tests. Design: Test-retest reliability study. Setting: Isometric trunk strength using a hand-held dynamometer (HHD) and isometric trunk endurance using the McGill protocol and novel 'long-lever' tests were evaluated. Participants: Twenty-three male field-athletes. Main outcome measures: Intra-class coefficient (ICC) and standard error of measurement (SEM). Results: For relative reliability, good to excellent results were found for all HHD strength tests (ICC = 0.70-0.91). Relative reliability for trunk endurance tests showed excellent results for the McGill protocol (ICC = 0.80-0.89) and moderate to excellent reliability for the long-lever tests (ICC = 0.57-0.96). The V-Sit endurance test and the isometric lateral flexion strength test showed lower absolute reliability, with relatively high SEM values. Conclusions: Therefore, we recommend practitioners assess athlete trunk function by using a HHD to evaluate isometric flexion, extension and rotation trunk strength and the Biering-Sorenson, and long-lever lateral flexion and flexion tests to assess trunk endurance.		[Dekkers, Thomas A.; Collins, Kieran D.] Technol Univ Dublin, Gael Sports Res Ctr, Dublin, Ireland; [Dekkers, Thomas A.] Cork Univ Hosp, Cork, Ireland; [Blake, Catherine] Univ Coll Dublin, Sch Publ Hlth Physiotherapy & Sports Sci, Dublin, Ireland; [McVeigh, Joseph G.] Univ Coll Cork, Sch Clin Therapies, Cork, Ireland; [O'Sullivan, Kieran J.] Univ Limerick, Hlth Res Inst, Sch Allied Hlth, Limerick, Ireland; [Dekkers, Thomas A.] Cork Univ Hosp, Physiotherapy Dept, Cork, Ireland								4							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001560591900001	49	Article; Article		
J	Silva, Guilherme de Oliveira Santos; Bredt, Sarah da Gloria Teles; Praca, Gibson Moreira								Does experience mitigate the deleterious effect of mental fatigue on tactical performance? A study in youth soccer academies								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	1			154	169		10.1177/17479541251365949			FEB 2026	2026	The present study compared the effects of mental fatigue on the tactical performance of soccer players in the under-13, under-15, and under-17 categories. The sample of the present study comprised 70 elite male youth soccer athletes, including 23 under-13 players, 23 under-15 players, and 24 under-17 players. The athletes participated in small-sided games in a 3 vs. 3 format with goalkeepers under two conditions: experimental (presence of mental fatigue) and control (absence of mental fatigue). Mental fatigue was induced using an electronic version of the Stroop test for 20 min. Tactical performance was analysed through measures of interpersonal synchronization in the In-phase pattern, recorded by 10 Hz GPS units. The MANOVA revealed an interaction effect between Category*Condition (p = 0.003). It was observed that the under-15 category exhibited a significantly greater reduction than the under-17 category in the percentage of time in the In-phase synchronization pattern on the depth axis, both in the offensive (p < 0.001) and defensive phases (p < 0.001) during the experimental condition. Additionally, the under-15 category showed a significantly greater reduction than the under-13 category on the depth axis, both in the offensive (p < 0.001) and defensive phases (p < 0.001). In conclusion, athletes at more advanced developmental stages show greater resilience to mental fatigue in tactical performance, while younger players, such as those in the U-13 category, appear less affected-possibly due to the immaturity of their cognitive systems.		[Silva, Guilherme de Oliveira Santos; Bredt, Sarah da Gloria Teles; Praca, Gibson Moreira] Univ Fed Minas Gerais, Sports Dept, CECA, Belo Horizonte, Brazil; [Praca, Gibson Moreira] Ave Pres Antonio Carlos 6627, BR-31270901 Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001551200500001	62	Article; Article		
J	Machado, Margarida; Goncalves, Bruno; Sousa, Ana; Abade, Eduardo; Nakamura, Fabio Yuzo; Coutinho, Diogo								How does menstrual cycle affect female football players' performance during small-sided games?								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	1			131	142		10.1177/17479541251366436			FEB 2026	2026	This study aimed to compare the perceptual state, physical, technical, and tactical performances of youth female football players in small-sided and conditioned games (SSCG) across different menstrual cycle phases. A total of twenty-seven under-19 players were monitored over 3 months using daily questionnaires and basal temperature to track menstrual phases. Players with synchronized cycles (n = 6, age: 16.5 +/- 0.76 years) participated in 3-a-side with goalkeepers SSCGs, under follicular (FOL) and luteal (LUT) conditions. No significant effects were found in perceptual scales, though motivation scores were higher in the FOL phase (effect Cohen d = 0.80 [0.04; 1.57]). Technical performance was higher during FOL for shooting decision (p < .01, Cohen d = 0.71 [0.26; 1.16]) and target orientation (p < .05, Cohen d = 0.50 [0.10; 0.90]) compared to LUT. Positional analysis revealed greater distance to the nearest teammate (p < .01, Cohen d = 0.49 [0.14; 0.84]) but lower variability (CV, p < .001, Cohen d = -0.82 [-1.17; -0.47]) in FOL. No physical performance differences were detected. These findings suggest that while physical and perceptual performance remains stable across menstrual phases, subtle variations in technical and positional behavior may indicate that menstrual cycle phases could be considered when designing training. This pilot study highlights preliminary trends, particularly in relational positional variables, which merit further exploration in future research to better understand their implications.		[Machado, Margarida; Sousa, Ana; Nakamura, Fabio Yuzo; Coutinho, Diogo] Univ Maia UMAIA, Dept Phys Educ & Sports Sci, P-4475690 Maia, Portugal; [Goncalves, Bruno] Univ Evora, Dept Desporto & Saude, Escola Saude & Desenvolvimento Humano, Evora, Portugal; [Goncalves, Bruno] Univ Evora, Comprehens Hlth Res Ctr CHRC, Evora, Portugal; [Goncalves, Bruno; Abade, Eduardo] Portuguese Football Federat, Portugal Football Sch, Oeiras, Portugal; [Sousa, Ana; Abade, Eduardo; Nakamura, Fabio Yuzo; Coutinho, Diogo] Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev CIDESD, Elite Res Community, Vila Real, Portugal; [Abade, Eduardo] Univ Tras os Montes & Alto Douro, Sch Life Sci & Environm, Dept Sports Sci Exercise & Hlth, Vila Real, Portugal; [Coutinho, Diogo] Univ Maia, Maia, Portugal								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001551196200001	54	Article; Article		
J	Houston, Adam; Groothuis, Peter A.; Guignet, Dennis								Competitive Recruiting Imbalances Between National Collegiate Athletic Association Conferences								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				26	7			867	883		10.1177/15270025251369420			OCT 2025	2025	The National Collegiate Athletic Association's (NCAA) Division I Football Bowl Subdivision (FBS) is divided into ten conferences. In the last few years there have been significant conference realignments as many schools have changed conferences. Using a novel panel dataset of high school football player recruitment from 2014 to 2023 at 120 different FBS university programs, we analyze the distribution of recruitment athletic talent across teams and conferences. While most larger universities in "Power Five" conferences recruit a similar number of five, four, and three-star recruits, we find that universities in the Southeastern Conference enjoy greater recruitment success, even after controlling for athletic program success at the university-level. In comparison, we find that smaller universities in "Group of Five" conferences are all at a disadvantage, recruiting fewer highly rated players. Our analysis suggests that conference affiliation is one of the major drivers of talent recruitment. Such recruitment imbalances yield broader implications because football team performance has been found to be associated with broader university success in terms of the quality and quantity of student applications, admissions, and endowment.		[Houston, Adam; Groothuis, Peter A.; Guignet, Dennis] Appalachian State Univ, Econ, Boone, NC 28608 USA; [Groothuis, Peter A.] Appalachian State Univ, Econ, Boone, NC 28608 USA								0							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001549919400001	22	Article; Article		
J	Scholefield, Poppy; Fitzpatrick, Anna								The technical and tactical demands and capabilities of six English Category 1 academy goalkeepers: A case study								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	6			2670	2680		10.1177/17479541251367296			DEC 2025	2025	The role of the goalkeeper (GK) is one of the most specialised roles in football, but little research has explored its specific requirements. This study aimed to compare the technical and tactical demands and capabilities of GKs across three age groups in an English Category 1 football academy. The actions of Under 13 (n = 2), Under 15 (n = 2) and Under 18 (n = 2) GKs were analysed using a club-specific notational analysis system, during the 2023/24 season (n = 71 matches), to assess the prevalence and impact of in possession (IP) and out of possession (OP) actions. Results showed IP actions, as a percentage of total actions, increased with age (U13 = 69.75 +/- 5.59%, U15 = 78.22 +/- 5.99%, U18 = 85.29 +/- 3.59%). There were differences between age groups in the prevalence and impact of IP actions, but no differences in the prevalence of OP actions, although the U18s performed more negative impact actions OP than the U13s. Findings suggest that GKs are increasingly involved IP as they progress through the academy, whereas, the OP demands remain similar, but become more technically challenging to deal with. Coaches should consider these findings to design age-appropriate, representative training sessions, track and predict players' progression, and inform individual development plans.		[Scholefield, Poppy; Fitzpatrick, Anna] Loughborough Univ, Sch Sport Exercise & Hlth Sci, NCSEM 1-28,Epinal Way, Loughborough LE11 3TU, England; [Fitzpatrick, Anna] Loughborough Univ, Sch Sport Exercise & Hlth Sci, NCSEM 1-28,Epinal Way, Loughborough LE11 3TU, England								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001548833600001	42	Article; Article		
J	Ausloos, Marcel								New inequality indicators for team ranking in multi-stage female professional cyclist races								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	1			378	392		10.1177/17479541251365797			FEB 2026	2026	Cycling competition is highly interesting since the team ranking is based on the best performance of some subset of team members. The paper develops new inequality indicators, a methodology to construct them, and numerical illustrations allowing to provide operative arguments in their favor. The numerical illustrations subsequently deal with hierarchical ranking indicators of (female) cyclist teams, competing in multi-stage races. For the illustration, the 2023 editions of the most famous long races for females are considered: 34th Giro d'Italia Donne, 2nd Tour de France Femmes, 9th Vuelta Femenina. Several classical ranking indicators are recalled and adapted to the study cases. The most usual indicator, T L , is based on the riders arriving time for the various stages, i.e., according to Union Cycliste Internationale (UCI) standard rules. One also uses another indicator, A L , which requires that the riders finish the race, whence each stage, in order to define the race best team. Another contribution of the paper derives from specific developments of these indicators, thereby leading to new measures: the "leadership gap" based on A L - T L , and the "competition temperature", based on entropy. It is argued that the numerical values point to differences in team strategy based on rider skill levels. The ranking of contributions to indicators allow to observe the "crucial core" made of the most competitive teams.		[Ausloos, Marcel] Univ Leicester, Sch Business, Leicester LE2 1RQ, England; [Ausloos, Marcel] Grp Researchers Applying Phys Econ & Sociol GRAPES, Liege, Belgium; [Ausloos, Marcel] Bucharest Univ Econ Studies, Dept Stat & Econometr, Bucharest, Romania; [Ausloos, Marcel] Univ Babes Bolyai, Dept Stat Predict & Math, Cluj Napoca, Romania; [Ausloos, Marcel] Univ Leicester, Sch Business, Leicester LE2 1RQ, England								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001547447600001	62	Article; Article		
J	Sanchez, Diego; Martinho, Diogo V.; Araujo, Duarte; Gouveia, Elvio R.; Figueiredo, Antonio; Saavedra, Nestor; Field, Adam; Sarmento, Hugo								Training and competition pathways to the Olympic games: Insights from developmental experiences of Colombian Olympians								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	3			1953	1962		10.1177/17479541251363874			JUN 2026	2026	Understanding the training experiences of elite athletes is essential for explaining how sports expertise is attained. Insights from athletes can also inform adjustments to talent development models designed to facilitate Olympic success. The current study aims to describe the training practices of Olympic athletes and explore how these practices relate to the number of Olympic Games they have participated in. The sample consisted of 20 Olympic athletes who completed a retrospective questionnaire regarding their training and competition practices from youth through adulthood. The duration of practice varied significantly among Olympic athletes. Analysis revealed that total training time, as well as the percentage of time dedicated to velocity, strength, and conditioning practices, systematically increased during developmental years. The percentage of time devoted to technical training was higher during childhood and adolescence compared to velocity and strength training; however, it tended to decrease over this period. Notably, reaching an international competition level at younger ages was associated with more emphasis on physical conditioning through late adolescence and adulthood. However, early specialization in one's respective Olympic sport did not correlate with achieving peak performance in adulthood. These findings provide significant insight about how Colombian athletes reached the Olympic Games.		[Sanchez, Diego; Saavedra, Nestor] Univ Appl & Environm Sci, Fac Hlth Sci, Bogota, Colombia; [Martinho, Diogo V.; Figueiredo, Antonio; Sarmento, Hugo] Univ Coimbra, Fac Sport Sci & Phys Educ, Coimbra, Portugal; [Martinho, Diogo V.; Gouveia, Elvio R.] Interact Technol Inst, Lab Robot & Engn Syst, Funchal, Portugal; [Araujo, Duarte] Univ Lisbon, Fac Motricidade Humana, CIPER, Cruz Quebrada, Portugal; [Gouveia, Elvio R.] Univ Madeira, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Funchal, Portugal; [Figueiredo, Antonio; Sarmento, Hugo] Univ Coimbra, CIPER, FCDEFUC, Coimbra, Portugal; [Field, Adam] Manchester Metropolitan Univ, Dept Sport & Exercise Sci, Manchester, England; [Martinho, Diogo V.] Estadio Univ Coimbra, Pavilhao 3, P-3040248 Coimbra, Portugal								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001547458200001	45	Article; Article		
J	Passacantando, Eleonora; Marinelli, Stefano; La Greca, Stefano; Farina, Francesco; Cariati, Ida; Cifelli, Pierangelo; Di Giminiani, Riccardo								Drop vertical jump performance and asymmetries in young rhythmic gymnasts								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	12			3607	3623		10.1080/14763141.2025.2539705			DEC 2 2025	2025	Rhythmic gymnastics (RG) is an Olympic discipline that emphasises repetitive unilateral movements that may lead to musculoskeletal asymmetries. The present study aimed to investigate the lower limb asymmetries during drop vertical jumps (DVJs) in young RG athletes. Fifteen young RG athletes (Age: 12.15 +/- 2.26 years; Stature: 148.89 +/- 14.31 cm; Body Mass: 39.02 +/- 12.26 kg; BMI: 17.11 +/- 2.65 Kg/m2), performed DVJs by stepping off a box using their preferred and non-preferred limbs. Several performance variables (flight time, contact time, reactive strength index-RSI, power output) and specific peaks of the vertical ground reaction force (vGRF)-time profiles in distinct jump phases for each limb, were analysed. When athletes stepped off the box with their preferred limb, the concentric force generation (the third peak of vGRF) was significantly higher in the preferred than the non-preferred limb (p < 0.05). Conversely, when athletes stepped off with the non-preferred limb, the force absorption during the breaking phase (the second peak of vGRF) was higher in the non-preferred limb than in the preferred limb (p < 0.01). The asymmetries observed in force parameters highlight the impact of RG's training demands. Addressing asymmetries in RG training may promote musculoskeletal health. Future research should explore the neural mechanisms underlying these asymmetries.		[Passacantando, Eleonora; Marinelli, Stefano; La Greca, Stefano; Farina, Francesco; Cifelli, Pierangelo; Di Giminiani, Riccardo] Univ Aquila, Dept Biotechnol & Appl Clin Sci, Laquila, Italy; [Farina, Francesco] Univ Verona, Dept Neurosci Biomed & Movement Sci, Verona, Italy; [Cariati, Ida] Tor Vergata Univ Rome, Dept Syst Med, Rome, Italy; [Marinelli, Stefano] Univ Aquila, Dept Biotechnol & Appl Clin Sci, Laquila, Italy								2							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001548323000001	52	Article; Article		
J	Ribeiro, Joao Nuno; Yousefian, Farzad; Arede, Jorge; Sarmento, Hugo; Leite, Nuno; Travassos, Bruno								Impact of Physical Match Performance on Youth Futsal Talent Program Selection: A Detailed Analysis by Team Rank in Portugal								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				97	1			5	12		10.1080/02701367.2025.2529506			JAN 2 2026	2026	This study examined the physical match performance of male youth futsal players in Portugal, focusing on their team ranks and participation in the National Team Development Program (NTDP) selection. Data on locomotor activity was gathered using local positioning system devices during a four-day under-15 regional inter-association competition involving 202 players from 22 teams categorized into three national ranks: R1 (top), R2 (middle), and R3 (bottom). The physical performance metrics were collected: total distance covered (TD; in meters), low-intensity running (LIR, 0-12 km/h), medium-intensity running (MIR, 12.1-18 km/h), and high-intensity running (HIR, 18.1-30 km/h). Linear mixed model analyses revealed that players in R1 and R2 exhibited significantly greater relative intensities (meters per minute) and higher percentages of MIR and HIR compared to those in R3 (p <= .001; ES: 0.4-1.1). In terms of selection status, players selected for the NTDP demonstrated superior absolute total distance (TD) and relative intensities across various running categories (LIR, MIR, and HIR) compared to non-selected players (p <= .01; ES: 0.7-1.7). These findings underscore the correlation between higher performance metrics and team rankings, emphasizing the need for targeted training to enhance HIR performance, ultimately aiding in the development of youth futsal players and informing elite coaches' selection processes for the NTDP.		[Ribeiro, Joao Nuno; Yousefian, Farzad; Travassos, Bruno] Univ Beira Interior, Covilha, Portugal; [Ribeiro, Joao Nuno] SPRINT Sport Phys Act & Hlth Res & Innovat Ctr, Santarem, Portugal; [Yousefian, Farzad; Arede, Jorge; Leite, Nuno; Travassos, Bruno] Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev CIDESD, Leiria, Portugal; [Yousefian, Farzad; Travassos, Bruno] Portuguese Football Federat, Oeiras, Portugal; [Arede, Jorge; Leite, Nuno] Univ Tras Os Montes & Alto Douro, Vila Real, Portugal; [Arede, Jorge] Polytech Inst Viseu, Viseu, Portugal; [Sarmento, Hugo] Univ Coimbra, Coimbra, Portugal; [Ribeiro, Joao Nuno] Univ Beira Interior, Dept Sport Sci, Rua Bairro Nossa Senhora Conceicao 22, P-6200175 Covilha, Portugal								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001546055700001	30	Article; Article		
J	Kons, Rafael Lima; Tozetto, Willen Remon; Bussato, Ericksson; Felix, Guilherme; Ishibashi, Mayra; Milisted, Michel								Determinants of Selection and Non-Selection Young Taekwondo Athletes: Integrating Multidisciplinary Assessments								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				97	1			22	29		10.1080/02701367.2025.2534597			JAN 2 2026	2026	This study identifies factors distinguishing selected and non-selected young Brazilian taekwondo athletes, focusing on physical attributes, age, maturity, sociodemographic, training characteristics, and psychosocial factors. One hundred and forty-nine athletes (77 males, 72 females) were divided into selected (n = 99) and non-selected (n = 50) groups. Anthropometric measurements (body mass and stature) and training characteristics (years of practice, weekly training duration) were assessed, followed by psychosocial questionnaires (sources of enjoyment, coach-athlete relationship, and sport mental health continuum). Student t-tests and linear regression analyses were conducted, with a 5% significance level. Results showed that selected athletes had higher in training volume per week (p = .023) and better coach-athlete relationship score (p = .050). Additionally, athletes from the Southeast region had 3.25 times higher odds of being selected, while those from the South had 2.77 times higher odds. Furthermore, athletes with seven or more years of practice were 2.06 times higher odds more likely to be selected compared to their less experienced peers (p < .05). In conclusion, selected athletes benefited from more intensive training and stronger coach relationships. These findings suggest that young Brazilian taekwondo athletes with access to better training opportunities, particularly in well-supported regions, and extensive practice experience are more likely to succeed in the selection process.		[Kons, Rafael Lima] Univ Fed Bahia, Salvador, Brazil; [Tozetto, Willen Remon; Milisted, Michel] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Florianopolis, Brazil; [Bussato, Ericksson; Felix, Guilherme; Ishibashi, Mayra] Brazilian Taekwondo Confederat, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil; [Kons, Rafael Lima] Univ Fed Bahia, Fac Educ, Dept Educ, BR-40110100 Salvador, BA, Brazil								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001544589200001	52	Article; Article		
J	Pare, Melissa A.; Muir, Irene L.; Munroe-Chandler, Krista J.; Sutherland, Chad A.; Loughead, Todd M.								UWorkItOut UWin Program: A RE-AIM Framework Program Evaluation								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				97	1			30	42		10.1080/02701367.2025.2534611			JAN 2 2026	2026	The UWorkItOut UWin program is a 6-week exercise training and counseling intervention aimed to improve the mental health of university students. Benefits of the program include a reduction of anxiety and depression symptoms, physical, psychological, and cognitive outcomes, as well as the development of various coping skills. Despite these favorable outcomes, a process evaluation of the program is needed to understand its effectiveness. The present study conducted a process evaluation using the RE-AIM framework to assess the UWorkItOut UWin program. Data collected from a mixed-method quasi-experimental pretest-posttest single group design was analyzed using the RE-AIM dimensions (i.e. Reach, Effectiveness, Adoption, Implementation, and Maintenance). Sixty participants (n = 60) completed pre-post surveys, exercise training data, self-report physical activity questionnaires, and exit interviews. The program performed well across the RE-AIM dimensions. The program had high adherence rates (reach) and positive outcomes related to mental health, such as decreased anxiety (d = -0.58), depression (d = -0.36), and loss of emotional control (d = -0.42) as well as increased general positive affect (d = 0.47) emotional ties (d = 0.40), and increased physical activity levels (effectiveness). Program staff were valuable for the social support they provided to participants (adoption). However, the program faced barriers with respect to securing dedicated space to conduct the program (implementation) and lacked evidence of long-term maintenance of physical activity participation (maintenance). The program prioritizes a client-centered approach to meet the needs of the participants. As such, continued program evaluation and adaptation is needed.		[Pare, Melissa A.; Munroe-Chandler, Krista J.; Sutherland, Chad A.; Loughead, Todd M.] Univ Windsor, Windsor, ON, Canada; [Muir, Irene L.] Penn State Univ, University Pk, PA USA; [Pare, Melissa A.] Univ Windsor, Dept Kinesiol, 401 Sunset Ave, Windsor, ON N9B 3P4, Canada								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001543831300001	60	Article; Article		
J	Dubeau, Charles-Anthony; Thibault, Nicola; Grondin, Simon								A Cross-Sectional Study of the Development of Lateral Preference in Ice Hockey								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				96	4			864	874		10.1080/02701367.2025.2526638			OCT 2 2025	2025	In ice hockey, players choose between one of only two ways to hold a stick, which reflects what is referred to as one's lateral preference in ice hockey. What determines this preference remains unknown. While handedness appears to be an important determinant of ice hockey's lateral preference, proportions demonstrate it cannot be the only influencing factor. The aim of the study was (1) to identify when ice hockey's lateral preference is determined in one's development and (2) empirically identify some of its determinant. The sample consisted of 106 children aged three to six, who were asked to perform a stick-handling task. The goal was to test whether their instinctive lateral preference aligned with their optimal lateral preference (i.e. the one in which they performed best), and whether this alignment was more frequent in older children. Neither chi-square nor segmented regression analyses revealed such alignment. Still, the present results suggest that ice hockey's lateral preference is likely determined around 5 years old. Also, parents were asked to answer a home-made questionnaire, which aimed to identify the potential determinant of their children's lateral preference in ice hockey. Parents identified "children's own choice" and parental observation as the main determinants. These two factors thus join handedness (which received further support in the present study) as potential determinants of ice hockey's lateral preference.		[Dubeau, Charles-Anthony; Thibault, Nicola; Grondin, Simon] Univ Laval, Laval, PQ, Canada; [Dubeau, Charles-Anthony] Univ Laval, Ecole Psychol, 2325 Rue Bibliotheques, Laval, PQ G1V 0A6, Canada								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001543878400001	48	Article; Article		
J	Bolland, Phil; Mullen, Thomas; Dobbin, Nick								The effect of neck strength and anthropometric properties on the linear and rotational accelerations experienced by academy footballers during heading: an exploratory analysis								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				75				72	79		10.1016/j.ptsp.2025.07.008			SEP 2025	2025	Objectives: To examine associations between anthropometric properties and neck strength with linear and rotational accelerations during heading. Design: Observational cohort study. Participants: Eleven male footballers from a UK academy. Main outcomes: Independent variables included head and neck circumference, head mass, head-neck segment mass, and strength. Dependent variables were mouthguard-derived linear and rotational acceleration. Results: A total of 11 male footballer recorded 259 heading events (24 +/- 8 per player). Trivial associations were observed between neck length, head-neck segment mass, and side flexion strength with linear acceleration (r =- 0.04-0.18, p = 0.001-0.638). There was trivial-to-small association between neck circumference, head mass and strength in forward flexion and extension with linear acceleration (r = 0.05-0.33, p = 0.001-0.602). Neck circumference, head mass, and strength in forward flexion and extension showed trivial-to-small associations (r = 0.05-0.33, p = 0.001-0.602). Neck length, circumference, and side flexion strength showed trivial-to-large associations with rotational acceleration (r =- 0.17-0.70, p < 0.001-0.166), while head mass, head-neck segment mass, and strength in flexion and extension had trivial-to-small associations (r = 0.01-0.75, p < 0.001-0.955). Fixed effects explained 4.3-6.5% of the variance in linear and rotational head accelerations. Conclusion: Neck strength and anthropometric factors showed mixed associations with head accelerations during heading, explaining a small proportion of the variance in linear and rotational accelerations.		[Bolland, Phil] Liverpool Football Club, Liverpool, England; [Mullen, Thomas] Manchester Metropolitan Univ, Inst Sport, Dept Sport & Exercise Sci, Manchester, England; [Bolland, Phil; Dobbin, Nick] Manchester Metropolitan Univ, Fac Hlth & Educ, Dept Hlth Profess, Manchester, England; [Dobbin, Nick] Manchester Metropolitan Univ, Dept Hlth Profess, Manchester M15 6GX, England								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001546871600001	54	Article; Article		
J	Pearce, Alan J.; Middleton, Kane; Clarke, Anthea								Time-course responses following sports-related concussion: a multi-modality study								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				54	1			11	19		10.1080/00913847.2025.2541579			JAN 2 2026	2026	Objectives: Using a repeated-measures design, we investigated reported symptoms, oculomotor, and neurophysiological responses for up to 26 days following a sports-related concussion. Methods: Over the course of one season, 115 athletes (mean age 26.2 +/- 5.4 years) from one football team (f = 28, m = 37) and one ice hockey team (f = 21, m = 29) were assessed for self-reported symptoms and severity of symptoms, cognitive testing for 10-word recall and digit backwards. Oculomotor performance was assessed using eye-pursuits. Neurophysiology was assessed using transcranial magnetic stimulation. Baseline data were collected during pre-season for all athletes and, when a concussion was identified during the season, additional data were collected at 2-, 12-, 19-, and 26-days post-injury. Results: Twenty-two players suffered concussion injuries (f = 9, m = 13). Significant increases in symptoms were reported at 2 days (p < 0.001) and 12 days (p = 0.017). Severity of symptoms was significantly increased at 48 hours only (p = 0.002). Significant decrements in performance for 10-word recall (p = 0.003), digit backwards (p = 0.011), and eye-pursuit (p = 0.009) were observed at 48 hours in comparison to baseline. Transcranial magnetic stimulation revealed significantly increased cortical inhibition at 48 hours (p = 0.024), 12 days (p = 0.009), and 19 days (p = 0.028) compared to baseline. No differences were seen between females and males for any variables or timepoints. Conclusion: Players with SRC show acute changes in cortical inhibition, resolving by 26 days after injury, which follows a longer time-course for recovery compared to symptoms, cognitive tests, and oculomotor eye-pursuits. These results suggest that measuring the recovery of athletes with SRC warrants further investigation using physiological testing to accompany clinical measures in the determination of a player's readiness to return to play.		[Pearce, Alan J.] Swinburne Univ Technol, Sch Hlth Sci, Swinburne Neuroimaging SNI Facil, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Middleton, Kane; Clarke, Anthea] La Trobe Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Human Serv & Sport, Sport Performance & Nutr Res Grp, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Pearce, Alan J.] Swinburne Univ Technol, Sch Hlth Sci, POB 218, Melbourne, Vic 3122, Australia								2							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001544612500001	59	Article; Article		
J	Ertel, Geoffrey N.; Pitto, Lorenzo; Simon, Frederic R.; Mornieux, Guillaume; Jehl, Jean-Philippe; Gauchard, Gerome C.								Influence of using individualised ergonomic handles on upper limb kinematics and neuromuscular activity, perceived comfort and performance during scull rowing								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	12			3588	3606		10.1080/14763141.2025.2533962			DEC 2 2025	2025	Articular stress, discomfort exposure and the use handles that are not adapted to the task-specific grip during repetitive movements may increase the upper limb injuries risk during boat rowing. Therefore, the purpose of this study was to introduce and evaluate the impact of two individualised ergonomic handles on comfort, upper limb's biomechanics, and performance in scull rowing, compared to standard handles. These two individualised handle designs were based on the irregular hexagon, and one was further individualised with the rower's comfort feedback. Perceived comfort, upper limbs kinematics, and neuromuscular activity, as well as boat speed and power production were monitored for 13 elite rowers. The handles tuned on the rower's comfort feedback increased significantly comfort (9.63 +/- 0.3) while maintaining similar performance level (4.22 m.s(-1) +/- 0.18). The improved comfort (p < 0.001) and the increased wrist extension (p = 0.014) were associated with a better blade orientation feeling. However, the handle orientation setup needs further investigation. Except for Deltoideus Posterior, upper limb neuromuscular parameters, power production and speed were not influenced by the ergonomic handles. New irregular hexagon handle diameters were found for optimal comfort in scull rowing. We recommend individualising irregular hexagon shaped handles for scull rowers wanting to improve comfort.		[Ertel, Geoffrey N.; Pitto, Lorenzo; Simon, Frederic R.; Mornieux, Guillaume; Jehl, Jean-Philippe; Gauchard, Gerome C.] Univ Lorraine, DevAH, Nancy, France; [Ertel, Geoffrey N.; Pitto, Lorenzo; Simon, Frederic R.; Mornieux, Guillaume; Jehl, Jean-Philippe; Gauchard, Gerome C.] Univ Lorraine, CARE Grand Est, Nancy, France; [Simon, Frederic R.; Mornieux, Guillaume; Gauchard, Gerome C.] Univ Lorraine, Fac Sport Sci, Nancy, France; [Jehl, Jean-Philippe] Univ Lorraine, Inst Jean Lamour, Nancy, France; [Ertel, Geoffrey N.] Univ Lorraine, DevAH, Nancy, France; [Ertel, Geoffrey N.] Univ Lorraine, CARE Grand Est, Nancy, France								1							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001542227400001	47	Article; Article		
J	Kons, Rafael Lima; Weldon, Anthony; Bishop, Chris; Cloak, Ross; Detanico, Daniele								A Needs Analysis and Recommendations for Physical Assessments and Training Adaptations for Judo Athletes With Visual Impairments: A Brief Review								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				47	4			465	474		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000893			AUG 2025	2025	This article reviews the unique needs, performance aspects, and assessment recommendations for judo athletes with visual impairments. A needs analysis reveals the importance of custom training strategies and environmental adaptations to facilitate training and competition. Performance aspects, including time-motion analysis and match-related performance, are discussed to elucidate the specific demands and movement patterns in judo athletes with visual impairment. In addition, recommendations are proposed to develop standardized protocols for physical assessment and skill evaluation, ensuring the optimization of training strategies. Collaborative research initiatives are recommended to further explore integrating multisensory stimuli and enhance athletic development in this population. By addressing the unique challenges judo athletes with visual impairment face and providing evidence-based recommendations for performance assessment and training optimization, this review contributes to advancing adapted sports science and promoting inclusivity and excellence in judo.		[Kons, Rafael Lima] Univ Fed Bahia, Fac Educ, Dept Phys Educ, Salvador, BA, Brazil; [Weldon, Anthony] Birmingham City Univ, Fac Hlth Educ & Life Sci, Birmingham, England; [Weldon, Anthony] Aston Villa Fdn, Aston Villa Football Club, Birmingham, England; [Bishop, Chris] Middlesex Univ, London Sport Inst, Fac Sci & Technol, London, England; [Cloak, Ross] Univ Wolverhampton, Inst Sport, Walsall Campus, Walsall, England; [Detanico, Daniele] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Ctr Sports, Biomech Lab, Florianopolis, SC, Brazil; [Kons, Rafael Lima] Univ Fed Bahia, Fac Educ, Dept Phys Educ, Salvador, BA, Brazil								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:001545477900001	42	Article; Article		
J	Deves, Mathieu; Marsan, Thibault; Faupin, Arnaud; Watier, Bruno								New method for quantifying power during wheelchair sports propulsion in the field								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	12			3570	3587		10.1080/14763141.2025.2531219			DEC 2 2025	2025	The importance of accelerating from a standstill is crucial in dynamic wheelchair sports, as it is closely tied to the ability to generate and apply significant power and net horizontal propulsion force. Assessing and quantifying para-athletes' physical capabilities could enhance training to performance transition. This study aimed to propose a field method for quantifying total wheelchair propulsion forces and output power, while exploring the usability of the 1080 Motion Sprint. Five para-athletes from the national French wheelchair racing team and seven wheelchair tennis players from the national French team participated. Unloaded and resisted sprints of 50 m and 20 m were performed. Mono-exponential velocity function was deduced using photocells, IMUs and the 1080 Motion Sprint velocity-time raw data. Net horizontal propulsion force was estimated from Newton's second law and considered the loads applied by the 1080 Motion Sprint, rolling resistance and aerodynamic drag. While no significant difference was observed between conditions for theoretical maximal force and maximum power developed, variations were evident in estimated power output and mechanical variables from force-velocity relationships, contingent on the athlete's classification and sport speciality. The developed protocol can be used by trainers to assess physical capacities during training sessions, guiding subsequent training.		[Deves, Mathieu; Faupin, Arnaud] Univ Toulon & Var, J AP2S, Toulon, France; [Deves, Mathieu] Federat Francaise Tennis, Paris, France; [Marsan, Thibault; Watier, Bruno] Univ Toulouse, LAAS, CNRS, UPS, Toulouse, France; [Watier, Bruno] CNRS, AIST JRL Joint Robot Lab, Tsukuba, Japan; [Deves, Mathieu] Univ Toulon & Var, J AP2S, Toulon, France; [Deves, Mathieu] Federat Francaise Tennis, Paris, France								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001541411400001	50	Article; Article		
J	Kulkarni, Ronit; Morningstar, Joshua; Otten, Michael; Baird, Henry; Pullen, William M.; Slone, Harris								Epidemiology of pickleball injuries by age group treated in emergency departments in the United States								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				53	6			435	440		10.1080/00913847.2025.2539062			NOV 2 2025	2025	PurposePickleball's rapid rise in popularity in the U.S. has led to a surge in injuries, particularly as younger players have begun engaging in the sport at greater rates. Understanding injury trends across age groups is critical for guiding prevention strategies. This study aims to examine pickleball-related injuries in different age groups, specifically comparing injury mechanisms and types between older (>= 65 years) and younger players to identify age-specific risk factors.MethodsUsing the National Electronic Injury Surveillance System (NEISS), we identified pickleball-related injuries from 2012 to 2021. Cases were stratified by age, and analyses included demographics, injury types, mechanisms, and emergency department dispositions. Comparative risk analyses were performed to assess differences between older and younger players.Results53,649 weighted cases (95% CI: 28518 -78,780) were recorded. Older players accounted for 83% of injuries, though the younger group experienced a higher annual rate of increase (older: 50.08%, younger: 69.93%). The most common injury mechanisms were slips, trips, falls, and dives (64.3%, 95% CI: 34.17%-94.42%), with older players three times more likely to sustain fractures (OR 2.96; 95% CI: 2.79-3.15) compared to younger players, and nearly three times as likely to be injured by a slip, fall, trip, or dive (OR 2.75; 95% CI: 2.63-2.88). Younger players were more likely to sustain strains or sprains (OR 1.86; 95% CI: 1.78-1.95) from 'otherspecified mechanisms' such as sudden stops and lunging (OR 2.13; 95% CI:2.03-2.23).ConclusionsDistinct injury patterns between younger and older players suggest the need for age-specific prevention strategies. Older players face higher fracture risks, while younger players are more prone to strains and sprains from dynamic movements.		[Kulkarni, Ronit; Morningstar, Joshua; Otten, Michael; Baird, Henry; Pullen, William M.; Slone, Harris] Med Univ South Carolina, Dept Orthopaed & Phys Med, 96 Jonathan Lucas St,CSB 708,MSC 622, Charleston, SC 29425 USA; [Baird, Henry] Univ Virginia, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Charlottesville, VA USA; [Baird, Henry] Med Univ South Carolina, Dept Orthopaed & Phys Med, 96 Jonathan Lucas St,CSB 708,MSC 622, Charleston, SC 29425 USA								1							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001540160400001	22	Article; Article		
J	Roe, Dearbhaile; Jowett, Sophia								"Advantage male": Elite university tennis players' views on working with female tennis coaches								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	5			1783	1793		10.1177/17479541251358568			OCT 2025	2025	Despite a significant increase in the participation of female athletes, the proportion of female coaches remains extremely low due to barriers related to the development, retention, and promotion of female coaches - especially within the high-performance sport system. This qualitative study aimed to explore players' views on working with female tennis coaches by conducting ten semi-structured interviews with elite university tennis players. Using reflexive thematic analysis and guided by the Ecological Model of Barriers and Supports for Women Coaches framework, the study's findings revealed the following beliefs: (a) both male and female coaches can excel; however, female coaches face discriminatory perceptions and gender stereotypes that hold them back; (b) female coaches must meet a higher threshold of competence and playing ability than male coaches to gain players' confidence; (c) female coaches often have certain advantages in coaching (e.g., being more relational and having a deeper understanding of female players and women's tennis); (d) mixed-gender coaching can be particularly valuable, as male and female coaches bring distinct perspectives and skill sets, fostering a balanced, adaptable environment. Nonetheless, the findings highlight a lack of player buy-in for female coaches and a prevailing preference for male coaches, leading to fewer coaching opportunities for women and, consequently, fewer role models to inspire future female coaches. This aligns with a historically persistent patriarchal sport culture underpinned by socially constructed gender expectations, which create barriers for female coaches. The discussion emphasizes the need for organizational change, inclusive environments, and targeted supports.		[Roe, Dearbhaile] Loughborough Univ, Sch Sport Exercise & Hlth Sci, Loughborough, England; [Jowett, Sophia] Guildhall Sch Mus & Drama, London, England; [Jowett, Sophia] Tandem Performance Consulting, London, England; [Roe, Dearbhaile] Loughborough Univ, Sch Sport Exercise & Hlth Sci, Loughborough, England								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001539354100001	59	Article; Article		
J	Denny, April L.; Parsonage, Joanna; Chalkley, Daniel; Headrick, Jonathon; MacDonald, Luke; Gosney, Sienna P.; Keogh, Justin; Minahan, Clare								Paddle-to-podium: A constraints-led approach to sprint-paddle training in competitive Australian female surfers								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	1			472	489		10.1177/17479541251358823			FEB 2026	2026	Female surfing is evolving rapidly with increasing expectations for athletes aspiring to qualify for the Olympics and World Championship Tour. Sprint paddling is a critical component of surfing performance, and paddling velocity in a pool setting has been shown to be a strong predictor of competition level in the ocean environment. Therefore, this study aimed to enhance sprint paddling performance among female surfers through a technique training intervention utilising a constraints-led approach. Experimental design included baseline testing prior to a 6-week control period, assessments pre and post the approximately 6-week training intervention, and a 6-week non-trained retention period with a final follow-up testing session. Pool-based testing consisted of a 15-m sprint-paddle test with video analysis for spatiotemporal data, a 12-s paddling force test, and a perception of paddling proficiency questionnaire. Additionally, internal and external shoulder strength and range of motion, and a 1RM maximum pull-up test were assessed in the gym. The training intervention applied Newell's Model of Constraints by manipulating task constraints to enhance paddling technique. Results showed significant improvements in sprint time to 15 m (PRE: M = 10.79 +/- 0.40 s, POST: M = 10.50 +/- 0.32 s) and average velocities (PRE: M = 1.57 +/- 0.07 m/s, POST: M = 1.63 +/- 0.04 m/s), stroke efficiency (decreased stroke count and increased stroke length), maximal and average force in the pool, and perceived paddling proficiency. These findings suggest that coaches should integrate this novel training into the daily training environment to continue to advance female surfing performance.		[Denny, April L.; Parsonage, Joanna; Headrick, Jonathon; Gosney, Sienna P.; Minahan, Clare] Griffith Univ, Griffith Sports Sci, Gold Coast, Australia; [Denny, April L.; Parsonage, Joanna; Gosney, Sienna P.] Surfing Australia, High Performance Program, Casuarina, Australia; [Denny, April L.; Gosney, Sienna P.] Queensland Acad Sport, Sport Performance Innovat & Knowledge Excellence S, Nathan, Australia; [Chalkley, Daniel] Australian Catholic Univ, Sch Behav & Hlth Sci, Banyo, Australia; [MacDonald, Luke] Skate Australia, Miami, Australia; [Keogh, Justin] Bond Univ, Fac Hlth Sci & Med, Gold Coast, Australia; [Minahan, Clare] Australian Inst Sport, Female Performance & Hlth Initiat, Canberra, Australia; [Denny, April L.] Griffith Univ, Griffith Sports Sci, Gold Coast, Australia; [Denny, April L.] Surfing Australia, High Performance Program, Casuarina, Australia; [Denny, April L.] Queensland Acad Sport, Sport Performance Innovat & Knowledge Excellence S, Nathan, Australia								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001538159500001	80	Article; Article		
J	Zeitlin, Camilla; Shepherd, Matthew; Lack, Simon David; Neal, Bradley Stephen								Blood flow restriction training compared to conventional training in people with knee pain: a systematic review with meta-analysis								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				74				65	74		10.1016/j.ptsp.2025.05.004			JUL 2025	2025	Objective: Evaluate the efficacy of blood flow restriction training (BFRT) in people with knee conditions. Methods: We searched Medline, Web of Science, and Sport DISCUS from inception until October 2023, seeking randomised controlled trials (RCTs) involving participants with any knee condition and BFRT in at least one intervention arm. We used a random-effects model meta-analysis to pool methodologically homogeneous data and the Grading of Recommendations, Assessment, Development, and Evaluations approach to categorise certainty of evidence. Results: 15 RCTs involving 418 participants were eligible, investigating people post-anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction (n = 7) and cartilage surgery (n = 2), or with knee osteoarthritis (n = 3) and patellofemoral pain (n = 3). There is very low certainty evidence that adding BFRT to resistance training is superior to resistance training for pain outcomes (small SMD 0.47, 95 % CI 0.09, 0.85). There is very low certainty evidence that adding BFRT to resistance training is equivalent to resistance training for function and strength outcomes. Conclusions: BFRT offers a significant effect on short-term pain that is of questionable clinical relevance, and no significant effects on function or quadriceps strength. Future high-quality RCTs are required to appropriately explore clinical efficacy, and clinicians should exercise caution in offering BFRT to people with knee conditions.		[Zeitlin, Camilla; Shepherd, Matthew; Neal, Bradley Stephen] Univ Essex, Sch Sport Rehabil & Exercise Sci, Wivenhoe Pk, Colchester CO4 3WA, Essex, England; [Lack, Simon David; Neal, Bradley Stephen] Queen Mary Univ London, Mile End Hosp, Sports & Exercise Med, Bancroft Rd, London E1 4DG, England; [Lack, Simon David] Pure Sports Med, Point West Bldg,116 Cromwell Rd, London SW7 4XR, England; [Neal, Bradley Stephen] Univ Essex, Sch Sport Rehabil & Exercise Sci, Wivenhoe Pk, Colchester CO4 3SQ, Essex, England								6							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001504577900001	47	Article; Article		
J	Nyitrai, N.; James, C.; Brunton, M.; Edwards, S.								Content validity of a new aquatic skill assessment tool: RAEE (refuse, assist, effective, efficient)								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	1			490	498		10.1177/17479541251361252			FEB 2026	2026	The assessment of 'swimming' in the context of preventing drowning is complex. Programs may/may not emphasize water safety, survival or aquatic competency. Therefore, establishing content validity of any assessment tool is an essential first step for a more consistent approach for assessments in learn-to-swim. The content validity of the RAEE (Refuse, Assist, Effective, Efficient) assessment tool was investigated using AUSTSWIM experts (n = 23) as participants, the Australian Water Safety Council's benchmark program and a cross-sectional questionnaire on demographics and evaluation of relevance and usefulness of the RAEE assessment tool in assessing these aquatic skills. Opinions from industry standard experts supported the content validity of the RAEE assessment tool for use in assessing the benchmark level for swimming and water safety, finding it relevant (77%+/- 8) and useful (73%+/- 5). A range of issues requiring ongoing research were highlighted, including communication (terminology surrounding swimming and water safety), assessment (pedagogical approach, program design/use, assessment methods/tools), and raters knowledge and understanding of water safety skills. There is an apparent disconnect between awareness of water safety (expert awareness of the Australian Water Safety Council 96%) and how that is translated into practical knowledge and understanding, regardless of the program being taught. Increasing the usage and knowledge of valid and reliable assessment tools can potentially help establish the link between drowning prevention and the aquatic skills, knowledge and understanding are required in an aquatic environment.		[Nyitrai, N.; Edwards, S.] Univ Newcastle, Sch Hlth Sci, Callaghan, NSW, Australia; [James, C.; Edwards, S.] Univ Sydney, Sydney Sch Hlth Sci, Camperdown, NSW, Australia; [Brunton, M.] Australian Catholic Univ, Sch Exercise Sci, Strathfield, NSW, Australia; [Edwards, S.] Univ Sydney, Fac Med & Hlth, Sydney Sch Hlth Sci, Discipline Exercise & Sport Sci, Susan Wakil Hlth Bldg, Camperdown, NSW 2006, Australia								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001535251200001	40	Article; Article		
J	Shaw, Jacob A.; Ducker, Kagan J.; Hiscock, Daniel J.; Jacques, Angela; Brade, Carly J.								Investigating acute training load variables and physical fitness responses to two different rest-redistribution protocols in Australian Rules Football players over a pre-season								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	1			267	274		10.1177/17479541251359741			FEB 2026	2026	This study investigated acute training load responses and physical fitness performance to two differing rest-redistribution interval training protocols. Sixty-eight semi-professional male Australian Rules football players were allocated into rest-redistribution 6 (RR6; 2 sets of 6 repetitions of 100 m sprinting efforts, every 40 s, with 3 min passive recovery between sets) or rest-redistribution 12 (RR12; 12 sets of 1 repetition of 100 m sprinting efforts, every 55 s) for a six-week intervention period. Acute training load responses included mean repetition time; mean repetition decrement; mean heart rate and rating of perceived exertion. Physical fitness performance tests (2 km running time-trial, 20 m sprint, standing vertical jump, Yo-Yo Intermittent Recovery Test two [Yo-Yo IRT2]), and sum of seven skinfolds were conducted pre- and post-intervention. During interval training, mean repetition decrement was significantly reduced in RR12 for repetitions 1-6 (p = 0.04), and 7-12 (p = 0.01) when compared to RR6. Only a within groups over time improvement in Yo-Yo IRT2 performance (p = 0.003) and sum of seven skinfolds (p = 0.001), was noted for physical fitness performance. These findings indicate that a rest redistribution with longer, more frequent rest periods enabled individuals to maintain a higher repetition speed for a longer duration.		[Shaw, Jacob A.; Ducker, Kagan J.; Hiscock, Daniel J.; Jacques, Angela; Brade, Carly J.] Curtin Univ, Curtin Sch Allied Hlth, Bentley, WA 6102, Australia; [Shaw, Jacob A.; Hiscock, Daniel J.] Subiaco Football Club, Perth, WA, Australia; [Shaw, Jacob A.; Hiscock, Daniel J.] Wesley Coll, Sport Dept, South Perth, WA, Australia; [Jacques, Angela] Univ Notre Dame, Inst Hlth Res, Fremantle, WA, Australia; [Brade, Carly J.] Curtin Univ, Curtin Sch Allied Hlth, Bentley, WA 6102, Australia								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001531787400001	21	Article; Article		
J	Freitas, Rui; Lopes, Rui J.; Sarajarvi, Jani; Volossovitch, Anna								Elite-level cooperation and opposition dynamics during defensive transitions: Using computer vision data to estimate the pass and dribbling progression conceded								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	1			182	197		10.1177/17479541251353215			FEB 2026	2026	This study examined how cooperation and opposition dynamics influenced ball progression during open-play defensive transitions in football. Ninety-four matches from the top three teams in the Portuguese First League (2022/23) were examined, focusing on episodes beginning in the offensive midfield of teams that lost ball possession, with a balanced scoreboard, and where possession was not regained. A five-second time criterion was used to define the endpoint of each transition. Thirty-six predictor variables, related to interpersonal angles, distances, and Voronoi diagrams were analysed using three Linear Mixed Models, based on each episode's type of progression (dribbling, passing, or mixed). Results indicated that a greater average distance between the first defender and the ball reduced progression through passing (beta = -0.15; CI = -0.24, -0.06), while greater variations in distances between the first two defenders and the ball generally hindered progression. Larger Voronoi areas for the third defender correlated with greater opponent spatial advances (beta = 0.19; CI = 0.11, 0.27), likely reflecting attacking success rather than defensive failure. Unexpectedly, higher spatial dominance around the first defender was associated with reduced defensive success (beta = 0.15; CI = 0.08, 0.22 and, beta = 0.10; CI = 0.03, 0.18), possibly due to lack of compactness or an episode's selection bias. Wider angles between defenders and their own goal positively correlated with all types of progression, emphasising the importance of maintaining defensive alignment. Overall, these findings reveal how specific defensive patterns near the ball can be used to obstruct opponents' progression during defensive transitions.		[Freitas, Rui; Sarajarvi, Jani; Volossovitch, Anna] Univ Lisbon, Fac Motricidade Humana, CIPER, SpertLab, Lisbon, Portugal; [Lopes, Rui J.] Inst Univ Lisboa, DCTI, ISCTE, Lisbon, Portugal; [Lopes, Rui J.] Inst Telecomnicacoes, Lisbon, Portugal; [Freitas, Rui] Univ Lisbon, Fac Human Kinet, Cruz Quebrada, Portugal								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001530953200001	55	Article; Article		
J	Petway, Adam J.; Harper, Damian; Cohen, Daniel; Eriksrud, Ola								Factors differentiating change of direction performance in NCAA power 4 male basketball athletes								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	1			321	328		10.1177/17479541251360509			FEB 2026	2026	The aim of this study was to investigate COD performance in an elite basketball cohort to determine which phase specific qualities are most strongly associated with COD performance. One hundred and twenty-four male basketball athletes (age = 20.9 +/- 1.23 years, height = 195 +/- 14.3 cm, body mass = 89.9 +/- 10.2 kg) from 10 different NCAA Power 4 basketball programs participated in this study. COD performance was assessed using a modified 505 (m505) COD test with phase specific and overall COD performance times measured via a portable motorized resistance device. Multiple linear regression was used to explore how total time to complete the m505 was influenced by the different phase-specific outcome measurements and differences between bigs (n = 54) and guards (n = 70) calculated using independent t-tests and Cohen's effect size. Four phase specific COD metrics significantly associated with m505 COD time to completion, including: time phase 1a (r = 0.90, p < 0.001), time phase 1b (r = 0.77, p < 0.001), maximal acceleration 1a (r = -0.73, p < 0.001) and maximal deceleration (r = -0.42, p < 0.001). These findings highlight the importance of phase specific outcome measures when assessing COD performance in elite basketball athletes.		[Petway, Adam J.] Univ Louisville, Hlth & Sports Sci Dept, Louisville, KY USA; [Petway, Adam J.] Mississippi State Univ, Ctr Adv Vehicular Syst, Human Factors & Athlete Engn, Mississippi State, MS USA; [Harper, Damian] Univ Cent Lancashire, Inst Coaching & Performance, Sch Hlth Social Work & Sport, Preston, England; [Cohen, Daniel] Univ Limerick, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Limerick, Ireland; [Eriksrud, Ola] Norwegian Sch Sports Sci, Dept Phys Performance, Oslo, Norway; [Petway, Adam J.] Univ Louisville, Hlth & Sports Sci, Louisville, KY 40208 USA								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001530847500001	35	Article; Article		
J	Jonson, Andrew M.; Walden, Thomas P.; Cripps, Ashley J.; Breed, Ray; Banyard, Harry G.								Pre-season block periodisation: Hypertrophy & strength-power effects on youth Australian footballer jump profiles								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	1			258	266		10.1177/17479541251353666			FEB 2026	2026	The aim of this study was to monitor changes in vertical jump force-velocity-power (FVP) profiles following hypertrophy (HYP) and combined maximal strength and power (CMSP) training in youth Australian Football athletes. This study implemented a single group, within-subject, non-randomised crossover design, prescribing sequential HYP and CMSP training to improve countermovement jump (CMJ) performance measured with FVP profiles. Twenty-one males (age: 17.2 +/- 0.7 years; height: 183.8 +/- 6.6 cm; body mass: 76.9 +/- 6.2 kg) completed pre-testing, four-week HYP-mesocycle, midpoint-testing, four-week CMSP-mesocycle, and post-testing. The 8-weeks training comprised 2-sessions per week (16 sessions total). Pre-mid-post-testing involved unloaded (bodyweight) and loaded (50 kg) CMJ's on dual-force plates to create FVP profiles using Samozino's method to calculate raw (mean concentric force, velocity, and power) and theoretical (maximal force [F0], maximal velocity [V0], force-velocity relationship slope [Sfv], and maximal peak power [Pmax]) variables. One-way ANOVA assessed changes in all variables. Unloaded and loaded CMJ heights significantly increased after HYP and CMSP-mesocycles (post-testing, p <= 0.001), with only loaded CMJ height improving after HYP-training (mid-testing, p = 0.034). There was no change in raw variables after HYP training (mid-testing). However, mean concentric force, velocity, and power significantly increased in unloaded and loaded CMJs following HYP and CMSP-mesocycles (post-testing, p <= 0.001). Of the theoretical variables, only F0 significantly improved after HYP training (mid-testing, p = 0.023), yet after HYP and CMSP training, F0 and Pmax were significantly improved (post-testing, p < 0.001). Sequential HYP and CMSP block periodised training significantly improved unloaded and loaded CMJ height, all raw FVP variables, and theoretical F0 and Pmax in youth Australian Footballers.		[Jonson, Andrew M.; Breed, Ray; Banyard, Harry G.] Swinburne Univ Technol, Fac Hlth Arts & Design, Dept Hlth & Biostat, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Walden, Thomas P.] Univ Hlth Network, KITE Res Inst, Toronto, ON, Canada; [Cripps, Ashley J.] Univ Notre Dame Australia, Sch Hlth Sci, Fremantle, Australia; [Jonson, Andrew M.] Swinburne Univ Technol, Dept Hlth & Biostat, Hawthorn, Vic 3122, Australia								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001530073400001	35	Article; Article		
J	El Melhat, Ahmed M.; El Khatib, Ayman; Essa, Shimaa Abdelalim; Elhalawaty, Ahmed F.; Abd El Wahed, Ahmed S.; Zebdawi, Moustafa R.; Koura, Ghada M.; Zahran, Samah Saad								Exploring the association of selected lower limb biomechanical variables on exacerbating pain, disability, and postural balance in female athletes with patellofemoral pain syndrome								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				75				38	47		10.1016/j.ptsp.2025.06.004			SEP 2025	2025	Objectives: This study aimed to investigate the associations of selected lower limb biomechanical variables with pain severity, disability, and postural balance in female athletes with Patellofemoral Pain Syndrome (PFPS). Design: Cross-sectional study. Setting: Biomechanics Laboratory. Participants: 165 female athletes were assigned to the PFPS group and 160 as a healthy controls group. Main outcome measures: Dynamic knee valgus (DKV) was measured via the Kinovea software program, tibial torsion was measured via a universal goniometer, and the navicular height was measured via a height caliper tool. Postural balance under dynamic stress was quantified via the Biodex Balance System, Pain severity via the numerical pain rating scale (NPRS), and disability via the anterior knee pain scale (AKPS). Results: DKV and tibial torsion showed significant differences between groups. DKV positively correlated with pain (r = 0.451) and postural balance (r = 0.244, 0.341, and 0.351 for balance scores), and negatively with disability (r =-0.432). Tibial torsion negatively correlated with disability (r =-0.339). Navicular height had no significant correlation with the measured variables. Conclusions: Lower limb biomechanics, especially DKV and tibial torsion, should be prioritized in performance screening for female athletes. This study highlights the importance of addressing biomechanical correction strategies into rehabilitation programs for female athletes with PFPS.		[El Melhat, Ahmed M.; Elhalawaty, Ahmed F.; Koura, Ghada M.; Zahran, Samah Saad] Cairo Univ, Fac Phys Therapy, Dept Phys Therapy Musculoskeletal Disorders & its, 7 Ahmed Zayat St,Near Ben El Sarayat Traff, Giza 11432, Egypt; [El Melhat, Ahmed M.; El Khatib, Ayman; Zebdawi, Moustafa R.] Beirut Arab Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Phys Therapy, Beirut, Lebanon; [Essa, Shimaa Abdelalim] Galala Univ, Fac Phys Therapy, Dept Basic Sci, Suez, Egypt; [Abd El Wahed, Ahmed S.] Cairo Univ, Fac Phys Therapy, Dept Basic Sci, Giza, Egypt; [Koura, Ghada M.] King Khalid Univ, Dept Med Rehabil Sci, Collage Appl Med Sci, Abha, Saudi Arabia; [Zahran, Samah Saad] Univ Tabuk, Fac Appl Med Sci, Dept Phys Therapy, Tabuk, Saudi Arabia; [El Melhat, Ahmed M.] Cairo Univ, Fac Phys Therapy, Dept Phys Therapy Musculoskeletal Disorders & its, 7 Ahmed Zayat St,Near Ben El Sarayat Traff, Giza 11432, Egypt								2							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001534784500003	52	Article; Article		
J	O'Connor, Ciaran; Coyle, Eddie; Mc Intyre, Martin; Delahunt, Eamonn; Thorborg, Kristian								Exploring the effects of a weighted vs unweighted low-dose isometric Copenhagen adduction exercise training programme on hip adduction and abduction strength: a randomised controlled trial in senior-level male amateur rugby union players								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				75				29	37		10.1016/j.ptsp.2025.07.004			SEP 2025	2025	Objectives: To explore the effect of an isometric weighted Copenhagen adduction (WCA) exercise programme and an isometric unweighted Copenhagen adduction (CA) exercise programme on hip adduction strength, abduction strength and adduction:abduction strength ratio. Design: Randomized controlled trial, with flat outcome structure. Setting: Rugby training facility. Participants: Thirty-one male rugby players. Main outcome methods: Between-group differences in hip adduction strength, abduction strength and adduction: abduction ratio were assessed using independent-sample t-tests. Within-group differences in hip strength were assessed using paired-sample t-tests. Results: 15 participants were assigned to the CA group and sixteen to the WCA group. Post-intervention, a significant between-group difference in hip adduction:abduction strength ratio was observed (0.09 Nm/kg, p = 0.032) with large effect size (ES = 0.812). No significant between-group differences were evident for hip adduction strength (0.21 Nm/kg, p = 0.058) or hip abduction strength (0.01 Nm/kg, p = 0.856). The WCA group demonstrated significant increases in hip adduction (0.22 N/kg, +10 %, p = 0.008) and hip adduction:abduction ratio (0.06 N/kg, +7 %, p = 0.036), but not hip abduction (0.08 N/kg, +4 %, p = 0.055), following the 8-week programme. No significant changes in hip strength were observed in the CA group. Conclusions: A low-dose 8-week adductor exercise programme using the isometric WCA exercise elicits significant increases in hip adduction:abduction strength ratio when compared to an isometric CA exercise.		[O'Connor, Ciaran; Delahunt, Eamonn] Univ Coll Dublin, Sch Publ Hlth Physiotherapy & Sports Sci, Dublin, Ireland; [Coyle, Eddie] Technol Univ Shannon, Fac Sport & Hlth Sci, Westmeath, Ireland; [Mc Intyre, Martin] Sports Injuries & Sport Med Clin, Castlebar, Mayo, Ireland; [Delahunt, Eamonn] Univ Coll Dublin, Inst Sport & Hlth, Dublin, Ireland; [Thorborg, Kristian] Univ Copenhagen, Amager Hvidovre Hosp, Inst Clin Med,Dept Orthopaed Surg, Sports Orthopaed Res Ctr Copenhagen SORC C, Copenhagen, Denmark; [O'Connor, Ciaran] Univ Coll Dublin, Dublin, Ireland; [O'Connor, Ciaran] Univ Coll Dublin, Dublin, Ireland								3							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001534784500002	26	Article; Article		
J	Ryan, Stephanie F.; Ju, Wenting; Tofari, Paul J.; Hulm, Scott; Constantinou, Maria; Hickey, Jack T.								Reliability of tests assessing hamstring function during hip extension and their associations with maximal sprinting speed: a cross-sectional study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				75				21	28		10.1016/j.ptsp.2025.07.005			SEP 2025	2025	Objective: Establish test re-test reliability of three tests assessing hamstring function during hip extention and investigate their associations with maximal sprinting speed. Design: Cross-sectional. Setting: Biomechanics laboratory. Participants: Twenty healthy, physically active men (age = 26 +/- 5 years; height = 1.81 +/- 0.07 m; body mass = 81 +/- 7 kg). Main outcome measures: Participants performed a maximal sprinting speed test on a non-motorised-treadmill (NMT) and three tests assessing hamstring function (hamstring scooter, hamstring push and hamstring switch), during test and re-test sessions seven days apart. Hamstring scooter peak horizontal force was measured using the NMT, while hamstring push and hamstring switch peak hip extension forces were measured using force plates (ForceDecks Lite, Vald Performance, Brisbane, Australia). We calculated each test's intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC) with 95% confidence intervals (95% CI) within (ICC2,1) test and re-test sessions, respectively, and between (ICC2,k) test and re-test sessions, along with Pearson's correlation coefficient (r-value) with maximal sprinting speed. Results: Test re-test reliability ranged from moderate to excellent for all tests. The hamstring scooter was the only test with a statistically significant association (p < 0.01; r = 0.76) with maximal sprinting speed. Conclusions: The tests described in this study all had moderate to excellent test re-test reliability, but only the hamstring scooter was associated with maximal sprinting speed.		[Ryan, Stephanie F.; Tofari, Paul J.; Hulm, Scott] Australian Catholic Univ, Sch Behav & Hlth Sci, Melbourne, Australia; [Ju, Wenting] Australian Catholic Univ, Sch Allied Hlth, Ballarat, Australia; [Tofari, Paul J.; Hickey, Jack T.] Australian Catholic Univ, Sports Performance Recovery Injury & New Technol R, Melbourne, Australia; [Constantinou, Maria] Southern Cross Univ, Fac Hlth, Gold Coast, Australia; [Hickey, Jack T.] Maynooth Univ, Dept Sport Sci & Nutr, Maynooth, County Kildare, Ireland; [Hickey, Jack T.] Maynooth Univ, Maynooth W23 F2H6, County Kildare, Ireland								1							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001534784500001	31	Article; Article		
J	Song, Jun Seob; Kataoka, Ryo; Yamada, Yujiro; Hammert, William B.; Kang, Anna; Wong, Vickie; Spitz, Robert W.; Seffrin, Aldo; Kassiano, Witalo; Loenneke, Jeremy P.								Unilateral High-Load Resistance Training Increases Absolute but Not Relative Muscular Endurance in the Contralateral Untrained Limb								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				96	4			875	883		10.1080/02701367.2025.2528821			OCT 2 2025	2025	To investigate whether unilateral resistance training can enhance absolute and relative muscular endurance in a trained arm and an untrained arm (cross-education of muscular endurance), and if this is mediated by increases in strength. 160 participants were randomly assigned to one of four groups: 1) training on the dominant arm followed by non-dominant arm (D + ND), 2) training on the dominant arm (D-Only), 3) training on the non-dominant arm (ND-Only), and 4) a time-matched non-exercise control (Control). Training involved 6-week (x3/week) of elbow flexion exercise. Each training session started with 1RM training (=five attempts), followed by four sets of high-load exercise (8-12RM). Changes in muscular endurance and 1RM strength of the non-dominant arm were compared among groups. Mediation analysis was used to investigate the influence of 1RM strength changes on muscular endurance. Changes in absolute muscular endurance of the non-dominant arm were greatest in D + ND (10.7 reps) and ND-Only (10.1 reps), while the changes were greater in D-Only (4.9 reps) when compared to Control (1.2 reps). Changes in relative muscular endurance of the non-dominant arm were only observed in D + ND (1.6 reps) and ND-Only (2.0 reps). Increased 1RM strength positively mediated the changes in absolute muscular endurance, whereas it negatively mediated the changes in relative muscular endurance. Unilateral high-load resistance training increased absolute muscular endurance in both a trained and untrained arm, likely driven by increased strength. In contrast, no cross-education of relative muscular endurance was observed.		[Song, Jun Seob] Texas A&M Univ San Antonio, San Antonio, TX USA; [Kataoka, Ryo; Yamada, Yujiro; Hammert, William B.; Kang, Anna; Loenneke, Jeremy P.] Univ Mississippi, University, MS 38677 USA; [Wong, Vickie] Solent Univ, Southampton, Hants, England; [Spitz, Robert W.] Univ Mississippi, Med Ctr, University, MS 38677 USA; [Seffrin, Aldo] Univ Fed Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil; [Kassiano, Witalo] Univ Estadual Londrina, Londrina, Brazil; [Loenneke, Jeremy P.] Univ Mississippi, Dept Hlth Exercise Sci & Recreat Management, Kevser Ermin Appl Physiol Lab, POB 1848, University, MS 38677 USA								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001528149500001	39	Article; Article		
J	Pillitteri, Guglielmo; Musa, Rabiu Muazu; Clemente, Filipe Manuel; Bongiovanni, Tindaro; Petrucci, Marco; Bianco, Antonino; Beato, Marco; Battaglia, Giuseppe								Machine Learning Analysis of Intensity Profiles and Key Indicators in Standard Microcycle of Professional Male Soccer Players								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				96	4			827	855		10.1080/02701367.2025.2521495			OCT 2 2025	2025	This study examined intensity profiles and key load indicators across different Match Days (MD) and playing positions within a standard microcycle in professional soccer. Longitudinal observational study with a machine learning-based analytical approach. Twenty-nine Italian Serie B players (25.9 +/- 4.2 years) were monitored across 91 training sessions and 38 official matches during the 2023-2024 season. A total of 2,204 observations were recorded, categorizing players into six positional groups. A Light Gradient Boosting Machine (LightGBM) model was used to predict MD types (MD + 1, MD + 2, MD + 3, MD-3, MD-2, MD-1, and MD) based on external (Global Navigation Satellite Systems, GNSS data) and internal (Rating of Perceived Exertion, RPE) load indicators. The model achieved 84% accuracy with an Area Under the Curve (AUC) of 0.97, effectively classifying MD types. K-means clustering categorized intensity profiles into low, medium, and high levels, while feature importance analysis identified key variables. Significant interactions were found between playing position and MD types for total distance/min (F(25, 2168) = 2.764, p < .001), decelerations/min (F(25, 2168) = 1.58, p = .033), and distance per minute at 0-7 km/h (F(25, 2168) = 2.41, p < .001). No significant differences emerged for distance per minute > 14.4 km/h (F(25, 2168) = 0.952, p = .531), distance per minute > 19.8 km/h (F(25, 2168) = 0.843, p = .688), or accelerations/min (F(25, 2168) = 1.28, p = .162). Positional differences in training intensity across MD types, provide coaches with data-driven insights for optimizing training loads and recovery strategies.		[Pillitteri, Guglielmo; Petrucci, Marco; Bianco, Antonino; Battaglia, Giuseppe] Univ Palermo, Palermo, Italy; [Pillitteri, Guglielmo; Petrucci, Marco] Palermo Football Club, Palermo, Italy; [Musa, Rabiu Muazu] Univ Malaysia Terengganu, Terengganu, Malaysia; [Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Inst Politecn Viana Do Castelo, Viana Do Castelo, Portugal; [Clemente, Filipe Manuel; Bongiovanni, Tindaro] Sport Phys Act & Hlth Res & Innovat Ctr SPRINT, Melgaco, Portugal; [Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, Gdansk, Poland; [Bongiovanni, Tindaro] Univ Bologna, Bologna, Italy; [Beato, Marco] Univ Suffolk, Ipswich, England; [Musa, Rabiu Muazu] Univ Malaysia Terengganu, Ctr Fundamental & Continuing Educ, Kuala Nerus 21030, Terengganu, Malaysia								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001528697600001	62	Article; Article		
J	Southey, Benjamin M.; James, Lachlan P.; Connick, Mark J.; Austin, Damien J.; Wellington, Brandon M.; Green, Matthew J.; Scott, Tannath J.; Spits, Dirk R.; Beckman, Emma M.								A comparison of reactive strength in elite and sub-elite male and female Australian footballers								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				25	4			502	515		10.1080/14763141.2025.2524349			APR 3 2026	2026	Reactive Strength Index (RSI) correlates to locomotor performance, hence an important strength quality to develop in Australian footballers (AF). However, two common tests, the drop jump (DJ) and 10/5 repeated jump (RJ), have been suggested to reflect different qualities. Therefore, the aim was to compare RSI between the DJ and RJ. Additionally, AF cohort comparisons were made to observe impacts of competition level and sex on RSI. RJ, DJ and Isometric Mid-Thigh Pull (IMTP) tests amongst elite male (AFL, n = 21), female (AFLW, n = 19), and sub-elite male (U18B, n = 19) and female (U18G, n = 19) cohorts were explored over three testing sessions. Coefficient of determination and spearman's rank correlation compared relationships between RJ, DJ and IMTP. Analysis of variance was used to compare strength qualities across AF cohorts. p < 0.05. Results found DJ and RJ had low shared variance (r(2)) 0.32. Furthermore, cohort comparisons found significant competition level and sex differences between reactive strength qualities. This study found that the RJ and DJ represent different reactive strength qualities, with differences in age and sex found in both. Therefore, both DJ and RJ should be considered when holistically examining reactive strength in AF, and the reactive quality ratio can highlight these relative differences.		[Southey, Benjamin M.; Wellington, Brandon M.; Beckman, Emma M.] Univ Queensland, Sch Human Movements & Nutr Sci, St Lucia, Qld, Australia; [Southey, Benjamin M.; Austin, Damien J.] Brisbane Lions Australian Football Club, High Performance Dept, Springfield, Qld, Australia; [James, Lachlan P.] La Trobe Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Human Serv & Sport, Bundoora, Vic, Australia; [Connick, Mark J.] Queensland Univ Technol, Sch Exercise & Nutr Sci, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [Wellington, Brandon M.] Manly Warringah Sea Eagles, Phys Performance Dept, Brookvale, NSW, Australia; [Green, Matthew J.; Scott, Tannath J.] Brisbane Lions Australian Football Club, Womens Football Dept, Springfield, Qld, Australia; [Scott, Tannath J.] Griffith Univ, Sch Hlth & Social Work Clin Sci, Southport, Qld, Australia; [Spits, Dirk R.] Tennis Australia, Phys Performance Dept, Tennyson, Qld, Australia; [Southey, Benjamin M.] Univ Queensland, Sch Human Movements & Nutr Sci, St Lucia, Qld, Australia; [Southey, Benjamin M.] Brisbane Lions Australian Football Club, High Performance Dept, Springfield, Qld, Australia								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001524703500001	37	Article; Article		
J	Lozano, Marc; Casals, Marti; Ampuero, Rodrigo; Campos-Rius, Josep; De Pablo, Bernat; Baiget, Ernest								Match activity profile analysis during professional single male pickleball matches								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	3			1920	1928		10.1177/17479541251356028			JUN 2026	2026	This study aimed to carry out a descriptive analysis of the game actions and activity profile of professional men's singles pickleball. A cross-sectional design was used. Match activity profile of seven male singles pickleball matches from the Carvana Arizona Grand Slam tournament were analysed. Study variables, such as, playing and resting time parameters, shots per rally, type of shots, trajectory of the ball and its path and shot outcomes were studied. The mean match durations were 37.1 +/- 11.6 min, with a work-to-rest ratio of 1:3.8 (mean, 0.26 +/- 0.03), where the effective playing time represents 20.5% of the total playing time. Most rally durations (77.4%) lasted between 3-9 s and most resting times (76.9%) were between 9-18 s. 53.1% of rallies had between 3-5 shots. The forehand (32.3%), the serve (19.8%) and the backhand (19.5%) accounted for 71.6% of the shots. Cross-court play (55%) predominated over parallel (45%). Most of the shots (99%) were performed from the baseline (53.9%) and the transition zone (45.1%). The majority of the shots were intercepted (80.2%). This information enhances understanding of singles pickleball and can contribute to performance and training session improvements.		[Lozano, Marc; Casals, Marti; Ampuero, Rodrigo; Baiget, Ernest] Univ Barcelona, Natl Inst Phys Educ Catalonia INEFC, Ave Estadi 12-22, Barcelona 08038, Spain; [Casals, Marti; De Pablo, Bernat] Univ Vic Cent Univ Catalonia UVic UCC, Sport Exercise & Human Movement SEAHM, Barcelona, Spain; [Campos-Rius, Josep] Ramon Llull Univ, FPCEE Blanquerna, Barcelona, Spain; [Ampuero, Rodrigo] Univ Barcelona, Natl Inst Phys Educ Catalonia INEFC, Ave Estadi 12-22, Barcelona 08038, Spain								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001524603600001	47	Article; Article		
J	Kempfert, David J.; Clacher, Lucy H.; Clark, Nicholas C.								Relationship between single-leg balance, single-leg hop, and agility running performance in female field hockey players: Implications for lower extremity injury prevention screening								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				74				118	126		10.1016/j.ptsp.2025.06.002			JUL 2025	2025	Objectives: In field hockey, there is limited information regarding lower extremity (LE) injury prevention screening protocols. To help inform the design of field hockey LE injury prevention screening protocols, the purpose of this study was to investigate whether static and dynamic single-leg balance (SLB), single-leg hop (SLH), and agility running tasks with unilateral limb-loading bias capture similar or different aspects of LE motor performance. Design: Cross-sectional. Setting: Indoor training facility. Participants: Thirty adult female players. Main outcome measures: For the right and left LE, Pearson's correlations (r) and the coefficient of determination (r(2)) assessed between-task relationships and shared variance, respectively, for: eyes-closed SLB, Star Excursion Balance Test - anterior reach, triple-hop-for-distance, 6-m-hop-for-time, modified pro-agility test. Results: Across all correlations, 50% were not statistically-significant. Statistically-significant (P < 0.05) relationships were returned for the right LE (r = -0.69 to 0.42, r(2) = 0.17 to 0.48) and left LE (r = -0.62 to 0.53, r(2) = 0.17 to 0.38). Overall, between-task shared variance was <= 48.0%. Conclusions: Because between-task shared variance was <= 48.0%, static and dynamic SLB, SLH, and agility running tasks with unilateral limb-loading bias each assess different aspects of LE motor performance. Therefore, practitioners should incorporate a range of LE motor performance tasks when designing field hockey LE injury prevention screening protocols.		[Kempfert, David J.] Emory Univ, Sch Med, Dept Rehabil Med, Atlanta, GA 30307 USA; [Clacher, Lucy H.] St Marys Univ, Sch Allied Hlth & Life Sci, Twickenham, England; [Clark, Nicholas C.] Clark Hlth & High Performance Syst, Res & Dev, London, England; [Kempfert, David J.] Emory Univ, Sch Med, Dept Rehabil Med, Atlanta, GA 30307 USA								1							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001524974700002	62	Article; Article		
J	Rosten, Mathias; Aune, Tore Kristian; Dalen, Terje								The Impact of Touch Restrictions in Small-Sided Games on Soccer Players' Passing, Receiving, and Ball-Touch Temporal Intervals								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				98				107	116		10.5114/jhk/196142			JUL 2025	2025	The present study aimed to investigate how players' technical actions were influenced by different touch restrictions in small-sided games (SSGs). Specifically, it analysed differences in the temporal intervals separating players' first and second touches across varied field zones-defensive, centre, and offensive-in SSGs. The experimental design involved twelve male junior soccer players playing under three distinct 4v4 SSG conditions: 1) amaximum of two touches per player; 2) a maximum of three touches per player; and 3) unrestricted play with no touch restrictions. Ten games of 4v4 SSGs (4 players + goalkeeper per team) were held for each condition, resulting in a total of 30 games of 4v4 SSGs investigated across eight distinct test sessions. Players had the shortest intervals between their first and second touches in the offensive zone, followed by the centre and then the defensive zones. Furthermore, the imposition of touch restrictions in SSGs led to a heightened frequency of passes compared to SSGs characterised by unrestricted gameplay; by contrast, SSGs featuring free play facilitated a greater number of receptions compared to SSGs with constraints on the number of touches. In conclusion, the current study outlines distinct differences in temporal intervals between the first and second touches of the ball across distinct field zones, notably showcasing a significant reduction in the time elapsing between touches as players neared their opponents' goal.		[Rosten, Mathias; Aune, Tore Kristian; Dalen, Terje] Nord Univ, Fac Educ & Arts, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Bodo, Norway; [Dalen, Terje] Nord Univ, Fac Educ & Arts, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Bodo, Norway								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:001544447600009	29	Article; Article		
J	Chen, Chung-Yu; Yu, Ching-Hui; Chen, Ti-Yu; Su, Tai-Yuan								Effect of Sequential Kicks on Programming Time and Movement Time in Taekwondo								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				98				5	15		10.5114/jhk/194067			JUL 2025	2025	It is a critical tactic in combat sports to launch consecutive attacks that consist of two or more individual kicks strung together in time. The study aimed to assess how the number of round kicks would impact reaction time (RT) and movement time (MT). Twenty-eight experienced taekwondo athletes performed one of four different kick responses randomly in a simple RT paradigm: 1) clenched lead fist without a kick (task A); 2) round kick following task A (task B); 3) double kick following task B (task C); and 4) turning kick following task C (task D). Electromyography recordings from the thenar muscle and acceleration impulses from a triaxial accelerometer positioned at the heavy bag were used to determine premotor time and kick time, respectively. Repeated-measures ANOVA revealed that task B, task C, and task D significantly increased RTs (p < 0.001). The RT of task D was longer than that of task B and task C (p < 0.001). The movement time of the round kick in task C and task D was longer than in task B (p < 0.001). The movement time of the double kick in task D was longer than in task C (p = 0.003). Additional time is required to prepare for multi-kicks responses. An increased number of individual kicks to execute as a whole may slow down the kick movement.		[Chen, Chung-Yu] Natl Taiwan Univ Sport, Dept Phys Educ, Taichung, Taiwan; [Yu, Ching-Hui; Chen, Ti-Yu; Su, Tai-Yuan] Natl Changhua Univ Educ, Dept Sports, Changhua, Taiwan; [Chen, Chung-Yu] Natl Taiwan Univ Sport, Dept Phys Educ, Taichung, Taiwan								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001544447600001	37	Article; Article		
J	Wang, I. -Lin; Lai, Chien-Ting; Su, Yu; Gu, Chin-Yi								Analysis of Lower Limb Asymmetry in Drop Jumps from Different Heights								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				98				57	66		10.5114/jhk/194893			JUL 2025	2025	This study aimed to investigate the effects of lower limb muscular asymmetry on the bilateral variations observed in high platform drop jumps, with a particular emphasis on the side-to-side differences in both the initial and secondary ground contacts during these jumps. Seventy-one students from the Physical Education department were selected to perform countermovement jumps. Participants were further classified into two groups, strength symmetry and strength asymmetry groups, based on the asymmetry strength index calculated from data collected via the force plates. Drop jumps were performed from three designated heights, i.e., 30 cm, 40 cm and 50 cm (D130, D140 and D150, respectively). The mixed design two-way ANOVA revealed notable differences between the stronger and weaker legs. Significant differences were observed in the timing of the peak vertical ground reaction force at the first ground contact of the D130 (p < 0.05) and in the shape factor of the push-off phase of the D140 (p < 0.05). The unilateral preference might lead to an increased risk of lower limb injuries. Prolonged training may exacerbate the degree of lower limb asymmetry. Potentially these findings can provide valuable suggestions for athletes and coaches in their training.		[Wang, I. -Lin] Hubei Normal Univ, Coll Phys Educ, Huangshi, Peoples R China; [Lai, Chien-Ting] Chinese Culture Univ, Grad Inst Sport Coaching Sci, Taipei City, Taiwan; [Su, Yu] Hebei Gen Hosp, Dept Rehabil Med, Shijiazhuang, Hebei, Peoples R China; [Gu, Chin-Yi] Natl Dong Hwa Univ, Dept Phys Educ & Kinesiol, Shoufeng, Taiwan; [Gu, Chin-Yi] Natl Dong Hwa Univ, Dept Phys Educ & Kinesiol, Shoufeng, Taiwan								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:001544447600005	39	Article; Article		
J	Yoshimoto, Takaya; Chiba, Yoshihiro; Ohnuma, Hayato; Sugisaki, Norihide								Investigation of Trunk and Pelvis Muscle Activity during Sprinting using T2-Weighted Magnetic Resonance Imaging								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				98				195	204		10.5114/jhk/197315			JUL 2025	2025	There are few studies that clarify the level of muscle activity in the trunk and pelvis muscles during sprinting. This study aimed to investigate muscle activity in the trunk and pelvis muscles during sprinting using T2-weighted magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). The pre- and post-test designs were employed by measuring trunk and pelvis muscle activity using T2-weighted MRI before and after 60-m round-trip sprints. Ten male sprinters (N = 10, age, 23.3 +/- 6.7 years; body height, 175.1 +/- 3.6 cm; body mass, 66.8 +/- 4.3 kg; 100-m personal record, 11.18 +/- 0.48 s, means +/- standard deviations [SDs]) performed three sets of three 60-m round-trip sprints. Before and after the round-trip sprints, 3T MRI scans were performed to obtain the T2 values of the trunk and pelvis muscles. After the 60-m roundtrip sprints, the T2 values of lateral abdominal, psoas major, erector spinae, gluteus maximus, gluteus medius, rectus femoris, tensor fasciae latae, sartorius and pectineus muscles increased significantly. There were intermuscular differences in the rate of change of T2 values before and after the 60-m round-trip sprints, with significantly higher levels of muscle activity in lateral abdominals, psoas major, erector spinae, gluteus maximus, and pectineus. In sprinting, the trunk and pelvis muscles were found to be specifically activated.		[Yoshimoto, Takaya] Int Univ Kagoshima, Fac Welf Soc, Kagoshima, Japan; [Yoshimoto, Takaya; Ohnuma, Hayato] Japan Inst Sports Sci, Dept Sports Sci, Tokyo, Japan; [Chiba, Yoshihiro] Josai Univ, Fac Management, Saitama, Japan; [Ohnuma, Hayato] Kobe Womens Univ, Fac Hlth & Welf, Kobe, Hyogo, Japan; [Sugisaki, Norihide] Meiji Gakuin Univ, Ctr Liberal Arts, Tokyo, Japan; [Yoshimoto, Takaya] Int Univ Kagoshima, Fac Welf Soc, Kagoshima, Japan; [Yoshimoto, Takaya] Japan Inst Sports Sci, Dept Sports Sci, Tokyo, Japan								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:001544447600015	41	Article; Article		
J	Seo, Eunchul; Kim, Young-Vin; Ahn, Hyunkyun								Sports Ability-Beliefs, Goal Orientation, and Exercise Adherence among Korean Golfers: A Causal/Multiple Mediation Model Using Phantom Variables								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				98				217	230		10.5114/jhk/194132			JUL 2025	2025	Continual exercise has become an important concept for mental as well as physical health, with sporting industries and communities interested in promoting exercise adherence. This study examined the causal relationship among sports ability-beliefs, achievement goal orientation, and exercise adherence among Korean recreational golfers. Data from 806 golfers were collected after Institutional Review Board deliberation and approval. To reflect the characteristics of frequent participation, golfers were limited to those who had been registered members of a golf practice facility for more than three months. The measurements included the sports ability-belief scale, the achievement goal orientation scale, and the exercise adherence scale, with evidence of construct validity based on confirmatory factor analysis. The research questions were verified through a measurement model and structural model validation. The results showed that the learning factor under incremental beliefs explained task orientation (beta = 0.417, p < 0.001). Conversely, the gift factor under entity beliefs explained ego orientation (beta = 0.169, p < 0.001). Thus, the significant relationship between learning and task orientation implied that consistent practice and effort in golf could enhance the positive meaning of golf participation and the perception of achievement in golfers. Conversely, the static explanation of ego orientation of gift suggested that individuals with strong beliefs in their innate golf abilities or the influence of their motor skills on golf performance experienced a sense of achievement by comparing themselves with others. Secondly, when the sub factors of sports ability-beliefs were controlled, both task orientation (beta = 0.420, p < 0.001) and ego orientation (beta = 0.159, p < 0.001) were statistically significant in terms of exercise adherence. Thirdly, in the relationship between sports ability-beliefs and exercise adherence, both task orientation (indirect effect: 0.074, p < 0.001) and ego orientation (indirect effect: 0.012, p < 0.05) had complete mediation effects. Ultimately, the study confirmed that the relevance of sports ability-beliefs and achievement goal orientation for exercise adherence in elite sports could also be applicable in the realm of recreational sports.		[Seo, Eunchul] Wonkwang Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Jeonbuk, South Korea; [Kim, Young-Vin] Osan Univ, Dept eSports, Div Culture & Arts, Osan Si, Gyeonggi Do, South Korea; [Ahn, Hyunkyun] Myongji Coll, Dept Sport & Leisure Studies, Div Arts & Hlth Care, Seoul, South Korea; [Kim, Young-Vin] Osan Univ, Dept eSports, Div Culture & Arts, Osan Si, Gyeonggi Do, South Korea; [Ahn, Hyunkyun] Myongji Coll, Dept Sport & Leisure Studies, Div Arts & Hlth Care, Seoul, South Korea								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001544447600017	42	Article; Article		
J	Lin, Yijun; Zhang, Ruike; Zhang, Yifan; Xu, Yang; Gao, Qi; Luo, Qinglu								Comparing the Efficacy of Solely Scapular Stability Training versus Combined Thoracic Flexibility Training in Elite Table Tennis Players with Scapular Dyskinesis								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				98				93	106		10.5114/jhk/196512			JUL 2025	2025	This study aimed to compare the effects of scapular stability training (SST) alone and combined scapular stability and thoracic flexibility training (TFT) in elite table tennis players with scapular dyskinesis (SD). Thirty players were categorized into three groups based on the presence of scapular dysfunction: the control (n = 10), shoulder (n = 10, with dysfunction), and chest groups (n = 10, with dysfunction). The shoulder group underwent scapular stability training alone, while the chest group underwent combined scapular stability and thoracic flexibility training. Various variables, including average track error (ATE), angular velocity, lateral scapular slide test (LSST) positions, upper quarter Ybalance test (YBT) distance, and range of motion (ROM) of thoracic rotation, were measured before and after the interventions. For the shoulder group, the playing-side ATE decreased significantly after the experiment (p = 0.005), along with increased angular velocity. LSST positions one, two, and three were smaller after the experiment (p values of 0.008, 0.008, and 0.009, respectively), indicating improved proprioception. The chest group exhibited significant differences in playing-side ATE, angular velocity, LSST positions two and three, YBT distance, and ROM thoracic rotation after training (all p < 0.05). The playing-side YBT distance (p = 0.002), ROM of thoracic rotation to the right (p = 0.001), and angular velocity (p = 0.003) were all higher in the chest group than in the shoulder group. Both interventions positively impacted scapular stability, but combined training, especially in the chest group, showed additional benefits in terms of angular velocity, YBT distance and thoracic rotation. These findings suggest that combined scapular stability and thoracic flexibility training may offer superior outcomes in elite table tennis players with SD.		[Lin, Yijun; Zhang, Yifan; Xu, Yang] Sichuan Univ, West China Hosp, Inst Rehabil Med, Rehabil Med Ctr, Chengdu 610041, Peoples R China; [Lin, Yijun; Zhang, Yifan; Xu, Yang] Sichuan Univ, West China Hosp, Key Lab Rehabil Med Sichuan Prov, Chengdu, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Ruike] Guangzhou Med Univ, Affiliated Hosp 5, Therapy & Rehabil Guangdong Higher Educ Inst, Dept Rehabil Med, Guangzhou, Peoples R China; [Gao, Qi] Beijing Sport Univ, Sch Sports Med & Rehabil, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Luo, Qinglu] Southern Med Univ, Affiliated Hosp 10, Dongguan Peoples Hosp, Dept Rehabil Med, Dongguan, Peoples R China; [Luo, Qinglu] Dongguan Expt Ctr Sports Rehabil Res, Dongguan, Peoples R China; [Luo, Qinglu] Rehabil Dept, Dongguan Key Specialty Tradit Chinese Med, Dongguan, Peoples R China; [Gao, Qi] Beijing Sport Univ, Sch Sports Med & Rehabil, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Luo, Qinglu] Southern Med Univ, Affiliated Hosp 10, Dongguan Peoples Hosp, Dept Rehabil Med, Dongguan, Peoples R China; [Luo, Qinglu] Dongguan Expt Ctr Sports Rehabil Res, Dongguan, Peoples R China; [Luo, Qinglu] Rehabil Dept, Dongguan Key Specialty Tradit Chinese Med, Dongguan, Peoples R China								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:001544447600008	37	Article; Article		
J	Kuligowski, Tomasz; Cieslik, Blazej								Hamstring Myometric Properties and the Functional Outcome in Young Adults with Radicular Pain: A Cross-Sectional Study								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				98				79	92		10.5114/jhk/196356			JUL 2025	2025	Low back pain (LBP) is a widespread musculoskeletal condition caused by various pathologies, including peripheral nervous system dysfunction, resulting in stiffness, reduced strength, and compromised neuromuscular control. Therefore, this study aimed to evaluate the influence of single-leg radicular pain on hamstring biomechanics in young adults without significant concurrent lower back symptoms while investigating the association between the functional outcome and muscle biomechanical properties. This cross-sectional study included two groups: young adults with lower limb radicular pain (RAD, n = 15) and age-matched healthy asymptomatic individuals (CON, n = 15). Clinical characteristics were assessed using the Oswestry disability index (ODI), the numeric pain rating scale (NPRS), and the passive straight leg raise (PSLR) test. Myometric muscle analysis of the biceps femoris and semitendinosus muscles was conducted using the Myoton PRO (R) device, focusing on mechanical and viscoelastic properties such as frequency, stiffness, relaxation time, decrement, and creepability. The RAD group showed around 14% higher stiffness on the symptomatic side compared to the CON group (p = 0.003), while relaxation time and creepability were by approximately 14% (p = 0.008) and 13% (p = 0.01) lower, respectively. Similarly, the RAD group exhibited approximately 13% higher stiffness on the asymptomatic side compared to the CON group (p = 0.02). In conclusion, the biomechanical properties of the hamstrings-particularly stiffness, relaxation time, and creepability of the biceps femoris on the symptomatic side- may significantly impact pain management in individuals with radicular pain. Moreover, stiffness of the biceps femoris could be an important predictor of functional outcomes in younger adults.		[Kuligowski, Tomasz] Wroclaw Univ Hlth & Sport Sci, Fac Physiotherapy, Wroclaw, Poland; [Cieslik, Blazej] IRCCS San Camillo, Healthcare Innovat Technol Lab, Venice, Italy; [Cieslik, Blazej] IRCCS San Camillo, Healthcare Innovat Technol Lab, Venice, Italy								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:001544447600007	60	Article; Article		
J	Alder, Sam E.; Mcrobert, Allistair P.; Champ, Francesca M.; Causer, Joe; Andrew, Matthew								Practice activities and behaviours employed by youth soccer coaches within a professional female soccer academy in England: A case study								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	6			2652	2669		10.1177/17479541251350979			DEC 2025	2025	Previous research investigating the microstructure of practice activities and coach behaviours pre-date or coincide with the professionalisation of female soccer within England in 2018. Following substantial structural developments at youth level, an examination of these aspects within the female soccer context has become essential for supporting youth development. A case study approach was adopted to explore practice structure, coaching behaviours, and the rationale for their use within sessions. Fourteen youth soccer coaches and the Academy Director from a single Category 1 soccer academy within England participated. Systematic observations of activities and behaviours within practice sessions were conducted and analysed using a computerised coding program, followed by individual video feedback sessions and stimulated recall interviews with each coach. Coaches predominantly used games-based (54.3%) over drill-based activities (23.6%) within their sessions, which was consistent across all age categories (U10-U16), and was influenced by coach education, individual coaching styles and the environment created and managed by the academy director. Transition periods between activities were perceived as excessive (22.1%) but varied between age categories. High levels of instruction and praise were provided to maintain an intense and positive learning environment, whereas some coaches utilised silence to promote autonomous learning, reflecting varied coaching styles. Dual-coaching also effectively ensured players were engaged and appropriately challenged. This study provides contemporary data on coaching practice activities and behaviours to extend existing knowledge. It also explores these aspects in female soccer for the first time, offering practical implications for coaching.		[Alder, Sam E.; Mcrobert, Allistair P.; Champ, Francesca M.; Causer, Joe] Liverpool John Moores Univ, Res Inst Sport & Exercise Sci, Liverpool, England; [Andrew, Matthew] Manchester Metropolitan Univ, Inst Sport Bldg, Dept Sport & Exercise Sci, Bldg,99 Oxford Rd, Manchester, England; [Andrew, Matthew] Manchester Metropolitan Univ, Inst Sport Bldg, Dept Sport & Exercise Sci, Bldg,99 Oxford Rd, Manchester, England								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001518079500001	69	Article; Article		
J	Tian, Zhiqi; Chong, Shyue Chuan; Lee, Hui Shan; Qiu, Yiqi								Unveiling the Influence of Air Pollution on Sports Demand: Evidence from the Chinese Football Association Super League								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				26	7			842	866		10.1177/15270025251348232			OCT 2025	2025	In the midst of China's football fervor, where fans' roars fill packed stadiums, a hidden adversary emerges. Deteriorating air quality not only threatens the health of individuals but also casts a shadow over the very essence of sporting passion. This study dives into the Chinese Football Association Super League (CSL), unveiling the intricate relationship between air quality and stadium attendance. Bridging a gap in environmental economics and sports consumer behavior research, we employ a robust regression model analyzing 720 CSL matches from 2015 to 2017. The results reveal a significant inverse link between air pollution and spectator turnout. We establish a novel connection between air pollution and overall satisfaction and engagement in sports. Our findings suggest that addressing air pollution is not only a health necessity but also crucial for sustaining sports enthusiasts' fervor. We advocate for strategic interventions to combat air pollution's impact on cherished sporting activities.		[Tian, Zhiqi; Qiu, Yiqi] Sichuan Univ, Sch Tourism, Chengdu 610064, Peoples R China; [Chong, Shyue Chuan] Tunku Abdul Rahman Univ Management & Technol, SME Ctr, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia; [Lee, Hui Shan] Univ Tunku Abdul Rahman, Fac Accountancy & Management, Kajang 43000, Selangor, Malaysia; [Lee, Hui Shan] Univ Tunku Abdul Rahman, Fac Accountancy & Management, Kajang 43000, Selangor, Malaysia								1							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001514669700001	54	Article; Article		
J	Rommel, Kai; Meyerhoff, Juergen								Preferences for attributes of running events: evidence from a choice experiment among recreational runners								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				27	1			63	80		10.1108/IJSMS-06-2024-0141			FEB 4 2026	2026	PurposeThe paper contributes to research on runners' preferences for attributes of running events. The number of events has increased significantly due to increased demand. In this popular sport, there are a variety of ways to design running event profiles to meet the heterogeneous demand. It is therefore important for event organizers to be able to assess the preference structure of their target groups as accurately as possible. A key goal of this study is therefore to estimate the marginal willingness to pay (MWTP), which reflects the preferences for characteristics of running events.Design/methodology/approachUsing a sample of 214 recreational runners in Germany, this study employs a discrete choice experiment based on McFadden's random utility theory (RUM). Respondents were asked to reveal their preferences by making trade-offs among the following event characteristics: distance, altitude difference, route profile, service, distance to home and participation fee.FindingsThe distance in running competitions is the decisive factor that determines preferences. The increasing demand for running events will tend to be for short- and medium-distance events.Research limitations/implicationsA limitation that applies in general is the hypothetical nature of the responses that could lead to the so-called hypothetical bias. Future studies should also investigate whether the assumptions underlying the RUM are fulfilled or whether other conceptual frameworks such as random regret minimization are more suitable to capture the preferences of runners or other athletes.Practical implicationsThe heterogeneous MWTP values for each attribute are an indication that organizers can achieve competitive advantages if they succeed in identifying the target groups of runners of short-term and medium-term distances and aligning the respective event with the corresponding preference structures. At running competitions, the selection of different running distances should include the very heterogeneous preference structure for this attribute as precisely as possible. A practical implication here is, e.g. the change in the offer structure through the inclusion of new or the termination of previous run offers.Originality/valueThe results show clear preferences for the landscape around the running route. It also becomes clear that personal experiences with the event, such as the environment and the running route profile, strengthen self-satisfaction and long-term commitment to individual running events. The results provide useful input for designing running tracks and for the development of a strategy concept for the marketing of running events.		[Rommel, Kai] Int Sch Management, Dortmund, Germany; [Meyerhoff, Juergen] Berlin Sch Econ & Law, Berlin, Germany; [Rommel, Kai] Int Sch Management, Dortmund, Germany								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001512204900001	50	Article; Article		
J	Kang, Philip; Ko, Yongjae; Youm, Sangpil; Chun, Yoonki; Davis, Sean; Connaughton, Daniel								Application of machine and deep learning techniques on sport non-fungible token tweets: exploration of perceived values and risks								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				26	4			862	883		10.1108/IJSMS-07-2024-0170			DEC 2 2025	2025	PurposeThe current study attempted to unravel the complexities of sport Non-Fungible Token (NFT) consumption by exploring consumers' perceived values and risks of sport NFTs.Design/methodology/approachTo achieve this goal, the authors conducted an exploratory study by collecting 23,445 tweets from Twitter and adopted artificial intelligence tools (i.e. latent Dirichlet allocation topic modeling and visualization, Word2Vec and uniform manifold approximation and projection) to analyze the data.FindingsThe results revealed that sport NFT platforms (i.e. NBA Top Shot, NFL All Day and UFC Strike) engage users through a blend of intrinsic and extrinsic motivations, including personal enjoyment, financial rewards and social recognition.Originality/valueThe current research not only illuminates the newly emerged NFT market but also provides exploratory evidence to understand sport NFT consumers' value perception by using machine and deep learning approaches. Practically, the current study provides valuable insights to sport NFT brand managers by identifying significant values that trigger sport NFT consumers' engagement with sport NFT consumption behavior.		[Kang, Philip] Augusta Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Augusta, GA 30912 USA; [Ko, Yongjae; Connaughton, Daniel] Univ Florida, Dept Sport Management, Gainesville, FL USA; [Youm, Sangpil] Univ Florida, Dept Comp & Informat Sci & Engn, Gainesville, FL USA; [Chun, Yoonki] Univ Alabama Huntsville, Dept Kinesiol, Huntsville, AL USA; [Davis, Sean] Univ North Florida, Jacksonville, FL USA; [Kang, Philip] Augusta Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Augusta, GA 30912 USA								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001512205500001	89	Article; Article		
J	Cisyk, Jeffrey								Special ticket packages and stadium giveaway promotions and the effect on demand for live sporting events								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				27	1			96	112		10.1108/IJSMS-02-2025-0059			FEB 4 2026	2026	PurposeSpecial-ticket packages are an emerging promotion strategy designed to drive demand for live sporting events. Unlike traditional stadium giveaways & horbar;where promotion items are distributed on a first-come, first-served basis - special-ticket packages guarantee that fans will receive the item with their ticket purchase. While both promotion distribution strategies align with price discrimination theory, only stadium giveaways have been widely studied for their effects on demand. This research addresses this gap in the literature by examining the impacts of these strategies on demand for live sporting events separately.Design/methodology/approachUsing a unique dataset of Major League Baseball bobblehead promotions from 2012 to 2023 (excluding COVID-impacted seasons), multi-variate regression analysis is employed to measure the effects of both special-ticket packages and stadium giveaways on paid game attendance.FindingsResults reveal that special-ticket packages increase paid attendance by 8%, while stadium giveaways by as much as a 13%.Originality/valueThis is the first empirical evidence that special-ticket packages significantly influence demand, offering new insights for sports marketers and event organizers.		[Cisyk, Jeffrey] Charles River Associates Inc, Dept Antitrust & Competit, Chicago, IL 02116 USA; [Cisyk, Jeffrey] Charles River Associates Inc, Dept Antitrust & Competit, Chicago, IL 02116 USA								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001511216500001	28	Article; Article		
J	Becker, Kevin A.; Hebert, Edward P.; Aiken, Christopher A.; Diez, Cameron								When might an internal focus prove beneficial? An exploration of attentional focus instructions and learner experience								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	5			1950	1957		10.1177/17479541251349431			OCT 2025	2025	Utilizing an external focus of attention has consistently been reported as being beneficial relative to an internal focus. Recent reviews have questioned the universality of this effect and proposed that an internal focus of attention may enhance skill acquisition in some instances. Traditional viewpoints of the stages of learning suggest early learners focus on the movement itself while an effective motor pattern is being developed, and shift attention to target outcomes in later stages. The purpose of the present study was to determine how an internal focus, external focus, and shifting between these strategies during practice impact the learning of a bowling task. Participants (N = 63) who self-reported beginner and intermediate experience level with the task were randomly assigned to practice with an internal focus (INT), external focus (EXT), or transition from an internal to external focus at the midpoint of practice (INT-EXT). They completed 50 practice trials across three days, and 10-trial retention and transfer tests two days later. Accuracy scores were analyzed using factorial ANOVAs for different study phases. Results indicated that beginners in the INT group bowled more accurately during retention and transfer (p < .05) than those in the EXT and INT-EXT groups. No differences were observed among intermediate learners. This study provides initial evidence that at the earliest stage of learning an internal focus promoted learning relative to an external focus or internal-to-external focus transition. This finding warrants further replication but suggests the external focus benefit may not be as universal as previously reported.		[Becker, Kevin A.] Univ Tennessee, Dept Kinesiol Recreat & Sport Studies, Knoxville, TN USA; [Hebert, Edward P.; Diez, Cameron] Southeastern Louisiana Univ, Dept Kinesiol & Hlth Studies, SLU Box 10845, Hammond, LA 70402 USA; [Aiken, Christopher A.] New Mexico State Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Las Cruces, NM USA; [Hebert, Edward P.] Southeastern Louisiana Univ, Dept Kinesiol & Hlth Studies, SLU Box 10845, Hammond, LA 70402 USA								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001510097400001	40	Article; Article		
J	Fujimoto, Masaki								The Impact of Pool Sharing on the Distribution of Playing Talent in the N-Team Leagues								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				26	7			816	841		10.1177/15270025251348166			OCT 2025	2025	This article exactly determines the impact of pool sharing on the talent distribution in the league for a general n-team model where each team is a profit maximizer, each team has the Nash conjectures, each team's revenue depends only on relative team qualities, and the supply of talent is fixed. It is shown that when a pool-sharing agreement is introduced, larger-market teams with greater marginal revenues of winning before sharing will demand more wins and talents than before sharing, while smaller-market teams with smaller marginal revenues of winning before sharing will demand less wins and talents than before sharing.		[Fujimoto, Masaki] Kindai Univ, Fac econ, Higashiosaka, Japan; [Fujimoto, Masaki] Kindai Univ, Fac econ, Higashiosaka, Japan								0							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001509884600001	29	Article; Article		
J	Silva-Pereyra, Valentina; Biancardi, Carlo M.; Fabrica, Gabriel								Comparative analysis of measurement systems and methods for force and velocity determinations in loaded and unloaded vertical jumps								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	9			2449	2465		10.1080/14763141.2025.2511759			SEP 2 2025	2025	Vertical force and velocity are key elements for evaluating jump performance. This study investigated the measurement agreement of force and velocity computed from kinetics, using a force platform, and from kinematics, using a motion capture system, during unloaded and loaded (+20% of body weight) vertical jumps. Synchronized kinetics and kinematics recordings were taken from 23 young basketball players while performing countermovement jumps (CMJ) and squat jumps (SJ). Five measurement of force and nine of velocity were analysed to evaluate the impact of different approaches on results interpretation. Results were compared within groups, intra class correlation and Bland-Altman analyses. Our result showed that loaded conditions did not affect the force estimation through double differentiation of kinematics data, however in SJ a systematic error appeared. Motion capture system and force platform disagreements on different velocity computations were detected, which increased in loaded conditions. Also, we observed a low agreement between a theorical approach of velocity estimation and force platform. Our findings indicate a disparity in measurement agreement of vertical force and velocity across alternative computation techniques and conditions (loads and vertical jump type), and therefore care must be taken while choosing a methodology for evaluating these important variables.		[Silva-Pereyra, Valentina; Biancardi, Carlo M.] Univ Republ, Dept Biol Sci, CENUR Litoral Norte, Paysandu, Uruguay; [Fabrica, Gabriel] Univ Republica, Fac Med, Dept Biophys, Montevideo, Uruguay; [Fabrica, Gabriel] Univ Catolica Santisima Concepcion, Educ Fac, Dept Sports Sci & Phys Conditioning, Concepcion, Chile; [Silva-Pereyra, Valentina] Univ Republ, Dept Biol Sci, CENUR Litoral Norte, Paysandu, Uruguay								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001522970000001	50	Article; Article		
J	Yamaki, Kaisei; Kanai, Daijirou; Matsubara, Shigehito; Shimamura, Takeshi; Miyazaki, Takasuke; Honda, Keita								Relationship between explosive lower limb strength and impact force during landing in healthy young individuals								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	12			3493	3509		10.1080/14763141.2025.2514231			DEC 2 2025	2025	Excessive peak vertical ground reaction force (VGRF) during landing is a risk factor for anterior cruciate ligament injury. Identifying the physical characteristics associated with peak VGRF is essential for injury prevention. The relationship between peak VGRF and maximum voluntary contraction (MVC) of the thigh muscle is weak, possibly because MVC does not reflect the muscle strength exerted at the knee joint posture and timing when peak VGRF occurs. This study explored the relationship between peak VGRF during landing and the rate of torque development (RTD), a measure of the rapid generation of muscle force, assessed at three different knee joint flexion angles. RTD and MVC of the quadriceps and hamstrings were measured in 36 physically active adults (18 males) using an isokinetic dynamometer at 30 degrees and 60 degrees knee joint flexion angles, simulating the joint angle at landing, and at a conventional 90 degrees knee joint flexion angle. Results showed a significant negative correlation between hamstring RTD at 30 degrees knee flexion and peak VGRF (r = -0.71, p = 0.001), but no significant correlations were found with others. Therefore, it is important to assess muscle strength at the posture and timing when peak VGRF occurs to reduce peak VGRF and prevent injury.		[Yamaki, Kaisei; Kanai, Daijirou; Matsubara, Shigehito; Shimamura, Takeshi; Miyazaki, Takasuke; Honda, Keita] Kumamoto Hlth Sci Univ, Grad Sch Hlth Sci, Kumamoto, Japan; [Matsubara, Shigehito; Shimamura, Takeshi; Miyazaki, Takasuke; Honda, Keita] Kumamoto Hlth Sci Univ, Dept Rehabil, Kumamoto, Japan; [Honda, Keita] Kumamoto Hlth Sci Univ, Grad Sch Hlth Sci, Kumamoto, Japan; [Honda, Keita] Kumamoto Hlth Sci Univ, Dept Rehabil, Kumamoto, Japan								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001504891700001	57	Article; Article		
J	Cisyk, Jeffrey; Courty, Pascal; Kouhbor, Amin								Are English Premier League Teams Paid Like Bureaucrats? An Incentive Analysis of Monetary Match Importance								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				26	7			783	815		10.1177/15270025251348181			OCT 2025	2025	Teams playing in the top English football league-English Premier League-face three types of financial incentives: rank-based prize money, qualification to European competitions, and relegation. For each type of incentive, we compute the monetary importance of each match for each team. A team's monetary match importance (MMI) is the difference between the team's expected award in the event it wins versus loses the match. We find that strong EPL teams have low average MMI relative to other teams. They are paid like bureaucrats as they face no risk of relegation, yet still receive a large and guaranteed award. We also show that total EPL MMI could be greatly increased by having a league with competitive balance.		[Cisyk, Jeffrey] Charles River Associates Inc, Chicago, IL USA; [Courty, Pascal] Univ Victoria, Econ, Victoria, BC, Canada; [Courty, Pascal; Kouhbor, Amin] Univ Victoria, Victoria, BC, Canada; [Courty, Pascal] Ctr Econ Policy Res, London, England; [Courty, Pascal] Univ Victoria, Victoria, BC, Canada								0							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001503425300001	24	Article; Article		
J	Ben Zaki, Benjamin; Julia, Marc; Desmyttere, Gauthier; Perrey, Stephane; Dusfour, Gilles								Altered landing strategy during vertical jump tasks in elite volleyball players with patellar tendinopathy								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				74				96	103		10.1016/j.ptsp.2025.05.011			JUL 2025	2025	Objective: To describe the biomechanical strategies during the landing phase of vertical jumps in volleyball players with or without patellar tendinopathy. Design: Cross-sectional observational study. Setting: Field-based study. Participants: Twenty-three elite volleyball players, 9 of whom where symptomatic for patellar tendinopathy (PT; Victorian Institute of Sport Assessment-Patella (VISA-P) score <= 80). Main outcome measures: Participants performed 4 types of vertical jumps: squat jump (SJ), countermovement jump without/with hands (CMJNH/CMJWH), and drop jump (DJ). Landing biomechanics were recorded using inertial measurement units and force platforms. Results: The PT group exhibited greater maximal knee flexion angles during CMJNH and DJ (p = 0.02 and p = 0.02; Hedges' g = -0.92 and -1.01, respectively), along with increased knee sagittal plane range of motion across CMJNH, CMJWH, and DJ (p = 0.007, p = 0.04, and p = 0.05; Hedges' g = -1.16, -0.85, and -0.88, respectively). Additionally, the PT group demonstrated higher rates of velocity decrease during CMJWH and DJ (p = 0.015 and p = 0.005; Hedges' g = -0.97 and -1.17, respectively). Conclusions: This study highlighted key knee joint kinematics differences in PT athletes during jump landing. Future applications may include early detection of the pathology, before functional impairments develop.		[Ben Zaki, Benjamin; Julia, Marc; Desmyttere, Gauthier; Dusfour, Gilles] CHU Montpellier CARTIGEN, Montpellier, France; [Ben Zaki, Benjamin; Julia, Marc; Dusfour, Gilles] Univ Montpellier, EuroMov Digital Hlth Mot, IMT Mines Ales, Montpellier, France; [Ben Zaki, Benjamin] CHU Montpellier CARTIGEN, Montpellier, France								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001508998900001	33	Article; Article		
J	Baumann, Stuart; Singleton, Carl								They were Robbed! Scoring by the Middlemost to Attenuate Biased Judging in Boxing								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				26	7			771	782		10.1177/15270025251348186			OCT 2025	2025	Boxing has long grappled with the problem of biased or "bad" judging. At its worst, this leads to "Robberies", where boxers are widely seen as being denied rightful victories. Such incidents risk alienating fans and athletes. To address this problem, we propose a minimalist adjustment to the scoring system: the winner would be decided from the round-by-round scores of the judges, rather than relying on the judges' overall bout scores. This approach, known as consensus scoring, is rooted in social choice theory and utilises majority rule alongside middlemost aggregation functions. We show that this scoring method creates a coordination problem for actively partisan judges and theoretically attenuates their influence on fight outcomes. Our analysis and simulations, using a stylised model of strategic judging behaviour, demonstrate the potential of consensus scoring to significantly decrease the likelihood of a single partisan judge from swaying the result of a closely contested bout.		[Singleton, Carl] Univ Stirling, Stirling Management Sch, Econ Div, Stirling FK9 4LA, Scotland; [Singleton, Carl] Univ Stirling, Stirling Management Sch, Econ Div, Stirling FK9 4LA, Scotland								0							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001502557200001	37	Article; Article		
J	dos Santos, William; Santos, Izabela A.; Mota, Gustavo R.; Puggina, Enrico Fuini								Ischemic Preconditioning Reduces Concentric Fatigue Index, Improves in O<sub>2</sub> Saturation Post Exercise at Low Velocities, and Increases Work Output at High Velocities								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				96	4			802	811		10.1080/02701367.2025.2510620			OCT 2 2025	2025	Purpose: Pursuing athletic performance optimization has driven interest in ischemic preconditioning (IPC) techniques. IPC, involving limb occlusion and reperfusion cycles, has shown promise due to its noninvasive nature and ease of application. This study aimed to analyze whether IPC can positively affect isokinetic elbow flexion testing at different speeds assessed by electromyographic (EMG) and variables such as nitric oxide (NO), heart rate (HR), and oximetry. Methods: Thirteen trained men (23.8 +/- 2.7 years, 88.6 +/- 14.5 kg, 178 +/- 0.9 cm, 27.7 +/- 3.1 kg/m2 body mass index) underwent isokinetic elbow flexion testing at 60 degrees/s and 180 degrees/s under IPC (3 cycles of 5 min at 220 mmHg - 5 min of reperfusion at 0 mmHg) and control conditions. Results: IPC significantly increased total work at 180 degrees/s (4589.6 +/- 1828.0 J vs. 3587.8 +/- 1277.0 J, p = .01; ES = 0.59) and reduced the concentric fatigue index at both 60 degrees/s and 180 degrees/s (according to the smallest worthwhile change (SWC)). At 60 degrees/s, post-exercise oxygen saturation improved significantly (p < .01). No differences were observed in torque, mean power, EMG, or nitric oxide levels (p > .01). Conclusion: IPC enhanced total work at 180 degrees/s and reduces concentric fatigue index at both speeds. No differences were found in EMG activity, may suggest that IPC effects may relate more to peripheral than neuromuscular mechanisms. These findings suggest IPC is a viable strategy to optimize strength and recovery, particularly in speed-dependent movements.		[dos Santos, William; Santos, Izabela A.; Mota, Gustavo R.; Puggina, Enrico Fuini] Univ Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Santos, Izabela A.] Univ Uberaba UNIUBE, Uberaba, Brazil; [Mota, Gustavo R.] Fed Univ Triangulo Mineiro UFTM, Uberaba, Brazil; [Santos, Izabela A.] Univ Sao Paulo, Fac Med Ribeirao Preto, Ave Bandeirantes,3900,Monte Alegre, BR-14049900 Ribeirao Preto, SP, Brazil								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001504243200001	43	Article; Article		
J	Reynolds, Sian; Chidley, Joel; Briley, Simon; Outram, Tom								The impact of minor crank length adjustments on lower body cycling kinematics								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				25	3			454	467		10.1080/14763141.2025.2511755			MAR 4 2026	2026	This study examined the effect of minor crank length adjustments on lower body cycling kinematics and exercise tolerance. Fourteen amateur cyclists performed sub-maximal cycling trials with five different crank lengths, preferred (165.0-172.5 mm), +/- 5 and 10 mm. An RPE prescription method determined intensity, and three-dimensional kinematics were collected using Vicon motion capture. Statistical parametric mapping was employed to analyse lower body kinematics. Changes in crank length had no effect on the mean power output (199.1 +/- 50.5 W). However, minor reductions were associated with significant decreases in knee (0-24%; 58-100%) and hip (0-13%) flexion as well as increases in the anterior pelvic tilt (0-40%; 74-100%). Additionally, shorter cranks resulted in less pelvic obliquity and rotation, hip abduction and knee rotation. Minor reductions in crank length can decrease hip and knee flexion, can limit non-sagittal plane motion and could serve as an effective bike manipulation to reduce the risk of overuse injury. Shorter cranks also enable riders to achieve anterior pelvic tilt and could limit stress on the lumbar spine. As minor adjustments did not impact power output, crank length alterations should be considered during bike fits and by bike manufacturers.		[Reynolds, Sian; Chidley, Joel; Briley, Simon; Outram, Tom] Univ Derby, Coll Sci & Engn, Sch Sport & Exercise Sci, Derby, England; [Outram, Tom] Univ Derby, Coll Sci & Engn, Sch Sport & Exercise Sci, Derby, England								2							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001503008900001	40	Article; Article		
J	Hou, Tingyu; Zhang, Yuchen; Wang, Yuanyuan; Chen, Shushu; Matsuoka, Hirotaka								Customer citizenship behaviour of older adults in community fitness centres: effects of service quality and satisfaction								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				26	5			1050	1070		10.1108/IJSMS-01-2025-0016			DEC 5 2025	2025	PurposeThe physical and mental health well-being of China's ageing population has garnered significant political attention, driven by the substantial and growing number of older individuals within the country. Accordingly, a key policy intervention in China has been the establishment of community-based fitness centres within a 15-min walking distance to ensure accessibility for the ageing population. Shanghai has been a frontrunner in implementing this initiative, with the number of community senior fitness centres increasing from just one in 2016 to 136 by 2023. However, the extent to which the service quality of these community-based fitness centres meets the needs of older adults in fostering satisfaction and how this satisfaction subsequently influences their citizenship behaviour remains relatively unknown. Drawing on social exchange theory, this research aims to address this gap.Design/methodology/approachA theoretical model, centred on the impact of perceived service quality (PSQ) on participant satisfaction (PS) and customer citizenship behaviour (CCB), is proposed, with "trust" serving as a moderator. After piloting, quantitative data were collected from 348 members of Shanghai senior fitness centres, with analysis conducted via structural equation modelling.FindingsThe findings reveal that all seven dimensions of PSQ, including the newly introduced access quality and innovation quality, positively impact PS. PS then fully mediates the link between PSQ dimensions and CCB, while trust moderates the relationship between satisfaction and CCB.Originality/valueThis research introduces a novel perspective by demonstrating that older adults' satisfaction with fitness centre service quality fosters voluntary citizenship behaviours, creating a positive virtuous cycle that enhances engagement and attracts more older adults to participate. This insight extends existing knowledge by highlighting the reciprocal relationship between service quality, user behaviour and community growth in fitness settings for older populations.		[Hou, Tingyu; Zhang, Yuchen] Waseda Univ, Grad Sch Sport Sci, Tokyo, Japan; [Wang, Yuanyuan] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Econ & Management, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Chen, Shushu] Univ Birmingham, Sch Sport Exercise & Rehabil Sci, Birmingham B15 2TT, England; [Matsuoka, Hirotaka] Waseda Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Tokyo, Japan; [Matsuoka, Hirotaka] Waseda Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Tokyo, Japan								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001504918100001	66	Article; Article		
J	Jin, Pengfei; Yang, Chen; Ren, Jie								The kinetic differences in knee joint loading under different foot support patterns in table tennis players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	6			2561	2570		10.1177/17479541251344591			DEC 2025	2025	This study aimed to investigate the impact of different foot support patterns on knee joint loading in elite table tennis athletes. Eighteen right-handed with shake-hand grip, national I level table tennis athletes were included. Their average age was 20.33 +/- 1.53 years, with a height of 1.73 +/- 0.08 meters, weight of 66.75 +/- 9.35 kilograms, and 11.67 +/- 1.81 years of training experience. The athletes performed forehand loop strokes using different support patterns: alternating support pattern (ASP) and full-foot support pattern (FSP). Kinematic and kinetic data were collected using 8 infrared cameras and 3 force plates. Compared to the ASP, the FSP significantly reduced heel-to-forefoot rotation angle (-30.67%), knee compressive force (-9.14%), knee extension moments (-13.94%), hip (-5.6%) and thorax (-3.8%) Z-axis angular speed, but increased free moment by 19.92%. The moment graph also revealed the FSP had a higher knee internal rotation moment (0%similar to 69%) and external rotation moment (70%similar to 100%), as well as a higher hip external rotation moment (6%similar to 64%). The FSP decreased athletic performance and increased knee joint load during the forehand loop. It is recommended that athletes avoid using the FSP during training or competition.		[Jin, Pengfei; Ren, Jie] Shanghai Univ Sport, China Table Tennis Coll, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Yang, Chen] Shandong Sport Univ, Coll Sport & Hlth, Jinan, Peoples R China; [Yang, Chen] Qufu Normal Univ, Coll Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Qufu, Peoples R China; [Ren, Jie] 399 Changhai Rd, Shanghai 200438, Peoples R China								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001500760700001	39	Article; Article		
J	Chang, Kai-Lung; Tang, Wen-Tzu; Tai, Mu-Lin; Knudson, Duane, V; Huang, Tsung-Yu								Influence of lower limb asymmetry on the two-handed backhand stroke in female tennis players								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	9			2733	2749		10.1080/14763141.2025.2511762			SEP 2 2025	2025	This study explored the influence of lower limb asymmetry on the kinematic characteristics of the tennis two-handed backhand (2HB) stroke in skilled female players. It included 14 right-handed tennis players. Lower limb symmetry was assessed using the hurdle step test (HDS) from the Functional Movement Screen (FMS (TM)). Based on the results, participants were divided into two groups: eight in the symmetric (SYM) group and six in the asymmetric (ASYM) group. Motion capture cameras recorded both groups performing backhand strokes. Data were analysed to measure linear and angular displacement of the trunk and lower limb segments throughout the preparation, acceleration, and follow-through phases. Differences in selected mean kinematics were assessed using independent t-tests. The ASYM group demonstrated a less closed stance in the initial backswing, less linear movement towards the left, and greater dependence on internal rotation of the left hip during acceleration The ankle having greater external rotation, resulted in more leg twist. The ASYM group also exhibited a greater forward lean at impact, with the follow-through characterised by continued forward lean, and greater leftward movement of both the trunk and lower limbs. SYM and ASYM grouping resulted in 11 significant mean differences in 2HB kinematics. Lower extremity symmetry assessed in the HDS task in skilled female tennis players may be an indicator of trunk, pelvis, and lower extremity technique in the 2HB.		[Chang, Kai-Lung; Tang, Wen-Tzu; Tai, Mu-Lin; Huang, Tsung-Yu] Natl Taiwan Sport Univ, Inst Athlet & Coaching Sci, Taoyuan, Taiwan; [Chang, Kai-Lung] Natl Chengchi Univ, Phys Educ Off, Taipei, Taiwan; [Knudson, Duane, V] Texas State Univ, Dept Hlth & Human Performance, San Marcos, TX USA; [Tang, Wen-Tzu] Natl Taiwan Sport Univ, Inst Athlet & Coaching Sci, Taoyuan, Taiwan								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001507915000001	36	Article; Article		
J	Mastromartino, Brandon; Sveinson, Katherine; Su, Yiran								A gendered socialization perspective on gender differences in sport fandom								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				26	5			1071	1089		10.1108/IJSMS-12-2024-0335			DEC 5 2025	2025	PurposeThis study aims to examine how paternal socialization in sports fandom extends beyond initial exposure, shaping fan motivations and behaviors differently for males and females. Grounded in gendered socialization theory, it seeks to clarify the unique role fathers play in influencing long-term sport fan engagement patterns.Design/methodology/approachA total of 612 sports fans participated in an online survey measuring perceived paternal influence, motivations for consuming sports and fan behavior outcomes. Data were analyzed using MANOVA to assess main and interaction effects of gender and paternal influence.FindingsResults indicate that paternal influence significantly affects fan motivations and behaviors, exhibiting distinct gender-specific patterns. Fathers' influence showed stronger positive associations with certain motivations and behaviors for males, while among females, increased paternal influence correlated with decreases in some behavioral outcomes such as purchasing team-related merchandise and watching games on TV. These findings demonstrate that paternal socialization processes reinforce or constrain fan engagement differently depending on gender.Originality/valueThis study advances theoretical understanding by applying gendered socialization theory to paternal influence in sports fandom beyond initial exposure. Unlike previous work that emphasizes early introduction, the results highlight fathers' ongoing role in shaping differentiated motivational and behavioral outcomes. Such insights encourage sport marketers and organizations to develop more inclusive, gender-sensitive strategies that acknowledge the pivotal, long-term influence of fathers on a fan's lifelong journey of fandom.		[Mastromartino, Brandon] San Diego State Univ, L Robert Payne Sch Hospitality & Tourism Managemen, San Diego, CA 92182 USA; [Sveinson, Katherine; Su, Yiran] Univ Massachusetts Amherst, Isenberg Sch Management, Amherst, MA USA; [Mastromartino, Brandon] San Diego State Univ, L Robert Payne Sch Hospitality & Tourism Managemen, San Diego, CA 92182 USA								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001498735000001	90	Article; Article		
J	Jia, Yuexin; Geng, Meihou; Chen, Yiwei; Wang, Yiyang; Ge, Xinying; Zhao, Jianhua; Kong, Yu								Effect and Mechanism of a New Method of Low-Intensity Resistance Training Combined with Blood Flow Restriction on Sports Biomechanics of Young People								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				24	2			388	396		10.52082/jssm.2025.388			JUN 2025	2025	High-intensity resistance training is effective in improving muscle strength but poses a higher risk of atherosclerosis. Combining high-intensity resistance training with aerobic exercise can reduce atherosclerosis levels. Low-intensity resistance training combined with blood flow restriction does not require high-load force to stimulate muscles and may improve muscle strength and maintain arterial elasticity. The objective of the study was to investigate the effects of 12 weeks of low-intensity resistance training combined with blood flow restriction on body composition, muscle strength, and arterial elasticity in young people. The primary aim is to clarify whether the low-intensity resistance training combined with blood flow restriction training is a scientific training method to improve muscle strength and maintain arterial elasticity, and providing theoretical support for the scientific implementation of blood flow restriction training and the development of individualized training programs. Fifty-five college students were randomly divided into three groups: high-intensity resistance training, high-intensity resistance training combined with aerobic exercise, and low-intensity resistance training combined with blood flow restriction. Each group underwent 12 weeks of their respective training programs, and the effects on body composition, muscle strength, and arterial elasticity were examined. After 12 weeks, lean body mass significantly increased in both the high-intensity resistance training and low-intensity resistance training combined with blood flow restriction groups (P < 0.05). 1RM and knee isometric muscle strength significantly increased in all three groups (P < 0.05). Arterial elasticity significantly improved in both the high-intensity resistance training combined with aerobic exercise group and the low-intensity resistance training combined with blood flow restriction group (P < 0.05). Twelve weeks of high-intensity resistance training and low-intensity resistance training combined with blood flow restriction significantly improved body composition. All three training methods increased muscle strength. Low-intensity resistance training combined with blood flow restriction was more effective in improving arterial elasticity than high-intensity resistance training combined with aerobic exercise. Therefore, low-intensity resistance training combined with blood flow restriction is recommended as the preferred method to improve body composition, muscle strength, and arterial elasticity, reducing the risk of atherosclerosis.		[Jia, Yuexin; Geng, Meihou; Chen, Yiwei; Wang, Yiyang; Ge, Xinying; Kong, Yu] Jiangsu Hlth Vocat Coll, Nanjing, Jiangsu, Peoples R China; [Zhao, Jianhua] Jiangsu Open Univ, Nanjing, Jiangsu, Peoples R China; [Kong, Yu] Jiangsu Hlth Vocat Coll, Nanjing, Jiangsu, Peoples R China								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:001505125700015	42	Article; Article		
J	Li, Mingbang; Zeng, Yang; Wei, Lixin; Li, Junlin								Leveling The Playing Field in Youth Basketball: How Compensatory Training With Small-Sided Games Enhances Physical Fitness and Reduces Relative Age Effect Bias in Match Selection								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				24	2			341	350		10.52082/jssm.2025.341			JUN 2025	2025	The purpose of this study was to analyze the effects of compensatory training on later-born basketball players, who had match time compared to their peers, focusing on their physical fitness and skill development. A prospective cohort study pared three groups of male youth basketball players (ages 14). One group consisted of later-born players with a high volume of match play in competitive scenarios (lbHPT), while the two groups had match play below the median of the teams. Among these two groups, one received compensatory training (lbLPTcomp), and the other did not (lbLPTreg). Players evaluated at three time points: baseline, 3 months, and 6 months. The assessments measured aerobic capacity (using the Yo-Yo termittent recovery test), 10-meter sprint performance, 5-0-5 change of direction (COD deficit), and performance on the ketball technical test (LSPT). The compensatory training sisted of two weekly sessions in which, after regular training, later-born players participated in 2v2 or 3v3 small-sided games lasting 15 minutes per session. The results revealed that lbLPTcomp was significantly effective in reducing the differences lbHPT, as no significant differences were observed between two cohorts over the 6 months for any of the outcomes (p > 0.05). Additionally, lbLPTcomp performed significantly better lbLPTreg post-6 months in the LSPT (p = 0.033) and COD deficit (p = 0.003). The lbLPTreg group was also significantly worse than lbHPT in the YYIRT (p = 0.022), LSPT (p = 0.036), COD deficit (p = 0.005). No significant between-group differences were found in 10-m sprint after 6 months (p = 0.241), though lbHPT and lbLPTcomp improved significantly (both 0.001). In conclusion, while compensatory training like twice weekly small-sided games may help later-born youth athletes with limited playtime, further research is needed before broad plementation.		[Li, Mingbang; Wei, Lixin] Geely Univ China, Coll Phys Educ & Hlth, Chengdu, Peoples R China; [Zeng, Yang; Li, Junlin] Sichuan Univ Sci & Technol, Meishan 620500, Peoples R China; [Zeng, Yang] Sichuan Univ Sci & Technol, Meishan 620500, Peoples R China								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001505125700011	31	Article; Article		
J	de Dios-Alvarez, Vicente; Rey, Ezequiel; Padron-Cabo, Alexis; Castellano, Julen								Impact of Weekly Eccentric Overload Training on Locomotor and Mechanical Performance in Youth Soccer Players								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				24	2			351	362		10.52082/jssm.2025.351			JUN 2025	2025	This study examined the impact of weekly eccentric overload training (EOT) on locomotor and mechanical performance during small-sided games (SSGs) in elite youth soccer players. A total of 22 elite male youth soccer players participated in this study. A controlled, non-randomized study design was employed. Players were assigned to either an eccentric overload training group (EOT, n = 9) or a control group (CON, n = 13). The EOT group incorporated one additional eccentric training session into their regular regimen, while the control group maintained their standard training schedule throughout the 8-week study. The Eccentric Overload Training (EOT), known for its benefits in injury prevention and performance enhancement, incorporated five exercises using flywheel devices: K-box squats, split squats, dynamic forward and backward lunges, and unilateral hamstring kicks on the Versa-Pulley. A total of 1,117 small-sided game (SSG) observations were analyzed (EOT = 528, CON = 589). No significant differences were found in locomotor variables, including zScore for total distance covered (TD), high-speed distance (HSD), very high-speed distance (VHSD), and sprint distance (SD). However, the intervention group showed lower acceleration (ACC) and deceleration (DEC) compared to controls (p < 0.05). Player load (PL) varied significantly between groups and over time (p < 0.05). These findings suggest that incorporating a weekly eccentric overload training (EOT) session may enhance locomotor performance despite temporary reductions in mechanical performance in elite youth soccer players. The practical application of the study is that minimal preventive eccentric work can be added into the intervention process without compromising physical performance capacity during that period.		[de Dios-Alvarez, Vicente; Rey, Ezequiel; Padron-Cabo, Alexis] Univ Vigo, Fac Educ & Sports Sci, Pontevedra, Spain; [Castellano, Julen] Univ Basque Country UPV EHU, Fac Phys Act & Sports Sci, Vitoria, Spain; [de Dios-Alvarez, Vicente] Soc Deport Ponferradina SAD, Ponferrada, Leon, Spain; [de Dios-Alvarez, Vicente] Univ Vigo, Fac Educ & Sports Sci, Pontevedra, Spain; [de Dios-Alvarez, Vicente] Soc Deport Ponferradina SAD, Ponferrada, Leon, Spain								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:001505125700012	48	Article; Article		
J	Daneshgar-Pironneau, Sarvenaz; Audiffren, Michel; Lorcery, Alison; Benraiss, Abdelrahni; Mirabelli, Francesco; Gargioli, Davide; Andre, Nathalie								Endurance Athletes Are More Resistant to Mental Fatigue Than Nonathletes								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				96	4			780	791		10.1080/02701367.2025.2501972			OCT 2 2025	2025	Acute mental fatigue refers to a temporary decline in cognitive function resulting from prolonged mental effort pertaining to a cognitively demanding task. Previous studies have indicated that acute mental fatigue decreases performance on subsequent physical effortful tasks as well as the capacity and/or motivation to invest mental effort. Scholars have recently suggested that aerobic training can enhance willpower. We hypothesized that endurance athletes are less responsive to the detrimental effects of acute mental fatigue than are nonathletes. Two groups of participants (50 athletes vs. 50 nonathletes) completed a sequential task protocol involving 30 minutes of a modified computerized incongruent Stroop task (effortful task) and 30 minutes of watching a documentary (control task), which were counterbalanced between two separate sessions; these tasks were followed by a time-to-exhaustion (TTE) handgrip task at 13% of participants' maximal voluntary contraction (dependent task). Psychophysiological indices (preejection period, heart rate variability, and respiratory rate) were assessed continuously throughout the experiment. The behavioral results indicated that only nonathletes exhibited worse performance on the TTE handgrip task after performing the Stroop task. The performance of participants in both groups was similarly impacted by mental fatigue during the Stroop task, and all the participants reported higher levels of subjective fatigue after completing the Stroop task. The psychophysiological data suggest that sympathetic activity decreased over time during these two cognitive tasks due to habituation (i.e. decreased arousal). Overall, these results suggest that endurance athletes are less susceptible to the negative effects of acute mental fatigue.		[Daneshgar-Pironneau, Sarvenaz; Audiffren, Michel; Lorcery, Alison; Benraiss, Abdelrahni; Andre, Nathalie] Univ Poitiers, Poitiers, France; [Mirabelli, Francesco; Gargioli, Davide] Univ Roma Foro Italico, Rome, Italy; [Mirabelli, Francesco] Univ Genoa, Genoa, Italy; [Gargioli, Davide] Southern Cross Univ, Lismore, Australia; [Audiffren, Michel] CNRS, CeRCA, UMR 7295, MSHS Batiment A5 5 Rue, F-86073 Theodore Lefebvre, France								10							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001501334300001	68	Article; Article		
J	Micke, Florian; Isenmann, Eduard; Geisler, Stephan; Held, Steffen								Effects of Repeated 1RM Testing on Strength, Velocity, and Load-Velocity Profiling: A Repeated Measurement Trial								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				24	2			303	310		10.52082/jssm.2025.303			JUN 2025	2025	Maximal strength assessment, particularly the one-repetition maximum (1RM) test, is essential in resistance training and sports science. Velocity-based metrics like mean concentric velocity (MCV) at 1RM and load-velocity profiling enhance neuromuscular monitoring, yet the stability of parameters such as load-velocity slope (VL-Slope) and peak power position (PP-Position) over repeated tests remains uncertain. Thus, 14 resistance-trained male participants (age: 25.2 +/- 3.3 years; training experience: 2.1 +/- 2.0 years) performed five 1RM tests in the squat and bench press over a seven-week period. Strength and velocity parameters, including 1RM, MCV at 1RM, VL-Slope, and PP-Position, were assessed using an inertial measurement unit. A repeated-measures ANCOVA was conducted to analyze changes over time, with effect sizes quantified using partial eta squared (eta p2) and standardized mean differences (SMD). No significant training-induced adaptations were observed for 1RM or MCV at 1RM across all testing sessions (p > 0.05). VL-Slope and PP-Position remained stable, indicating no systematic changes over time. However, exercise-specific differences were found, with higher absolute loads and velocities in the squat compared to the bench press. Additionally, PP-Position was significantly higher in the squat, suggesting that peak power output occurs at a higher relative load for lowerbody exercises. Repeated 1RM testing does not appear to induce relevant strength or velocity adaptations over time. Coaches and practitioners should consider exercise-specific differences in force-velocity characteristics when designing training programs and interpreting performance diagnostics.		[Micke, Florian; Held, Steffen] IST Univ Appl Sci, Dept Sport & Management, Dusseldorf, Germany; [Isenmann, Eduard; Geisler, Stephan] IST Univ Appl Sci, Dept Fitness & Hlth, Dusseldorf, Germany; [Micke, Florian] IST Univ Appl Sci, Dept Sport & Management, Dusseldorf, Germany								7							Sport Sciences	WOS:001472767900001	43	Article; Article		
J	Dai, Xinyu; Yan, Jihong; Bi, Xuecui								Weekly Fluctuations in Subjective and Objective Measures of Internal Training Load and Their Relationships in Male Elite Rowers								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				24	2			269	276		10.52082/jssm.2025.269			JUN 2025	2025	Subjective and objective methods are commonly used to evaluate the load and physiological adaptations of athletes in training. However, there is a lack of data and their relationship concerning these tools in professional rowing training. This study aimed to investigate the relationship between the subjective and objective training loads of male rowers during a mesocycle. Field data were collected from 26 professional rowers over 6 consecutive weeks. Subjective training load variables (perceived exertion, acute: chronic workload ratio, training monotony and strain), and objective variables (white blood cell, red blood cell, blood urea, creatine kinase, testosterone, and cortisol) was collected, and correlations between various TL's were analyzed. All participants completed 6 weeks of training, which consisted of resistance (315 +/- 88.5min/week), on-water (817.5 +/- 9min/week), ergometer (341.9 +/- 194.1min/week) and functional training (60min/week). Week 5 had the highest average weekly subjective training load (10849.23 +/- 1361.14 AU), whereas Week 2 showed the highest training monotony (TM) with statistically significant differences compared to Week 1, week 3, week 5 and week 6 (p < 0.05), with small to moderate effect sizes (ES: 0.275-0.619). There were correlations among all the subjective training load variables. A positive correlation was found between sRPETL and TS (r = 0.80). Blood urea (BU) was positively correlated with weekly sRPETL (r = 0.44, p < 0.05), TM (r = 0.40, p < 0.05), TS (r = 0.43, p < 0.05) and ACWR (r = 0.44, p < 0.05). Similarly, creatine kinase (CK) was also associated with these indicators (r = 0.50-0.60). Testosterone and cortisol showed a consistently negative correlation (r =-0.64), but no relationship were found between these hormones and subjective training load. In conclusion, this study demonstrates a significant correlation between subjective and objective training loads in elite rowers. Our findings provide empirical evidence that ACWR, TM and TS serve as sensitive indicators of biochemical markers (CK and BU) fluctuations in professional rowing athletes. Given the correlation between the above objective and subjective indicators, coaches can adjust the training schedules based on the subjective data during training week, and combine with hematological tests to further promote positive adaptations.		[Dai, Xinyu] Xiamen Univ Technol, Dept Phys Educ, Xiamen, Fujian, Peoples R China; [Yan, Jihong] Jimei Univ, Inst Phys Educ, Xiamen, Fujian, Peoples R China; [Bi, Xuecui] Capital Univ Phys Educ & Sports, Inst Phys Educ & Training, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Yan, Jihong] Jimei Univ, Inst Phys Educ, Xiamen, Fujian, Peoples R China								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:001464295300001	35	Article; Article		
J	Dolata, Michal; Zwierko, Teresa; Bojkowski, Lukasz; Moran, Brandon; Sliwowski, Robert								Reliability and Utility of the Skills.Lab Arena as A Real-Time Measurement Technology for Soccer Technique and Cognitive Performance								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				24	2			277	291		10.52082/jssm.2025.277			JUN 2025	2025	While motor and technical skills are typically assessed through field-based soccer tests, cognitive skills are usually evaluated in controlled laboratory environments. The Skills.Lab Arena is a newly developed testing and training device that enables motor, technical, and cognitive assessments in a soccer-specific setting. This study evaluated the reliability and usefulness of the Skills.Lab Arena technology. In a test-retest design (7 days, 1 month), 31 young soccer players (age, 13.5 +/- 0.5 years) performed 10 trials of technical and motor-cognitive tests. Absolute and relative intersession reliability were determined using the intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC) and coefficient of variation (CV). Bland-Altman analysis was used to assess agreement, mean differences, and limits of agreement (LoA). A repeated-measures ANOVA was applied to identify potential learning effects between test sessions. The smallest worthwhile change and typical error (TE) were calculated to assess the intersession usefulness of the tests. The Skills.Lab Arena tests demonstrated good relative and absolute intersession reliability, with ICC values ranging from 0.75 to 0.89 for time-based tasks and 0.71 to 0.91 for accuracy-based tasks. Bland-Altman analysis revealed minimal mean differences with acceptable 95% LoA. CV values ranged from 1.78% to 4.5% for time-based tasks and were slightly higher, ranging from 8.08% to 19.87%, for accuracy-based tasks. Learning effects were observed in one ball-related agility test. In light of the results, the Skills.Lab Arena can be considered a reliable diagnostic tool for assessing motor-cognitive performance in young soccer players. However, despite its reliability, further validation is needed before it can be recommended for practical use.		[Dolata, Michal; Moran, Brandon] KKS Lech Poznan, Poznan, Poland; [Zwierko, Teresa] Univ Szczecin, Inst Phys Culture Sci, Funct & Struct Human Res Ctr, Lab Kinesiol, Szczecin, Poland; [Bojkowski, Lukasz] Poznan Univ Phys Educ, Dept Psychol, Poznan, Poland; [Moran, Brandon] Seattle Pacific Univ, Sch Exercise Sci, Seattle, WA USA; [Sliwowski, Robert] Poznan Univ Phys Educ, Dept Theory & Methodol Team Sport Games, Poznan, Poland; [Dolata, Michal] KKS Lech Poznan, Poznan, Poland								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:001462886200001	50	Article; Article		
J	Veiga, Santiago; Fischer, Sebastian; Qiu, Xiao; Stosic, Jelena; Fuhrmann, Stefan; Kibele, Armin; Braun, Claudia								What Is the Best Step Technique for Swimming Relay Starts?								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				24	2			227	235		10.52082/jssm.2025.227			JUN 2025	2025	There is a great heterogeneity in the starting techniques used by international-level swimmers in relay events. The aim of the present study was to analyse and compare the two most commonly used relay start techniques by male and female competitive swimmers. Thirteen males and seven females national and international-level swimmers performed several 25-m trials with their preferred relay start (n = 91, short-step; n = 54, long-step technique). Linear mixed models examined the effects of gender and start technique, with 5-m start times as a covariate. Swimmers performing long-step showed faster 5-m (0.09 s, d = 1.10) and 10m (0.09 s, d = 0.39) times than those performing short-step starts, regardless of gender (all p < 0.001). This was the result of i) longer block times, ii) faster horizontal velocities with lower peak forces during the leg step and iii) faster velocities with higher peak forces when driving-off the block in the long-step technique. In both relay techniques, females showed 0.11 s (d = 1.38) longer 5-m and 0.69 s (d = 2.99) longer 10-m (both p < 0.001) times compared to males with longer block times and slower velocities in all key events. Swimmers should take advantage of the new starting platforms to apply long-step start techniques that increase horizontal displacement but also forward velocity before leaving the block.		[Veiga, Santiago; Qiu, Xiao; Stosic, Jelena] Univ Politecn Madrid, Sports Dept, Madrid, Spain; [Fischer, Sebastian; Qiu, Xiao; Kibele, Armin; Braun, Claudia] Univ Kassel, Inst Sports & Sport Sci, Kassel, Germany; [Fuhrmann, Stefan] Hamburg Olymp Training Ctr, Hamburg, Germany; [Veiga, Santiago] Univ Politecn Madrid, Sports Dept, Madrid, Spain								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:001455146200001	29	Article; Article		
J	Friedrich, Mathilde Fogh								Immersive training in ice hockey: Evaluating the impact of virtual reality on engagement, enjoyment, and motivation								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	6			2551	2560		10.1177/17479541251343272			DEC 2025	2025	Virtual reality (VR) is emerging as a transformative tool in sports training, offering immersive environments to enhance athlete development. This study examines the potential of VR as a supplementary off-ice training method for ice hockey players, focusing on engagement, enjoyment, usability, motivation, and perceived competence. Ice hockey's fast-paced and skill-intensive nature makes innovative tools like VR valuable for addressing logistical challenges while enriching training experiences. Using a cross-over design, 33 ice hockey players participated in both VR and traditional off-ice drills, with their experiences assessed through questionnaires and statistical analysis. Results showed that VR significantly enhances engagement compared to traditional methods. However, traditional drills outperformed VR in usability and perceived competence. No significant differences were observed in enjoyment and motivation between the two modalities. These findings highlight VR's potential as a complementary training tool, particularly for boosting focus and involvement, while underscoring the need for improved usability and alignment with athletes' skill levels. By bridging psychological insights with practical applications, this study contributes to the understanding of VR in sports training and calls for longitudinal research to explore its impact on performance and skill transfer. This research addresses gaps in the application of VR in team sports, providing a foundation for advancing innovative, adaptable, and engaging training methods in ice hockey and other sports.		[Friedrich, Mathilde Fogh] Aarhus Univ, Dept Business & Technol, Aarhus, Denmark; [Friedrich, Mathilde Fogh] Aarhus Univ, Dept Business & Technol, Aarhus Ctr, DK-8000 Aarhus, Denmark								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001498698300001	41	Article; Article		
J	Carboch, Jan; Mrazova, Kristina; Brenton, John								Perceptual-cognitive training effect on the development of anticipation skills in tennis serve return								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	6			2512	2520		10.1177/17479541251346119			DEC 2025	2025	Perceptual training can be used to develop anticipation skills, however, is not commonly integrated into tennis practice sessions. The aim of this study was to assess the effect of perceptual-cognitive training based on video recordings of tennis serves, modified by temporal occlusion, on the development of anticipatory skills of high-performance tennis players and tennis beginners. A total of 32 participants were divided into intervention and control groups based on skill level. We used pre and post-test design with intervention and control groups. The intervention group underwent a 3-week video-based perception training program. Results revealed a perception-cognitive training led to greater anticipation performance in the intervention group of high-performance players compared to beginners. Furthermore, improvements were observed in specific occlusion conditions across skill levels with key moments of racket-ball contact. These findings indicate that video-based perceptual training can effectively enhance visual anticipation development of tennis players, and ought to be included as a method in the comprehensive training of tennis players.		[Carboch, Jan; Mrazova, Kristina] Charles Univ Prague, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Prague, Czech Republic; [Brenton, John] Accelerated Skill Acquisit, Perth, Australia; [Carboch, Jan] Charles Univ Prague, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Dept Sport Games, Jose Martiho 31, Prague, Czech Republic								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001498607700001	44	Article; Article		
J	Nunes, Guilherme S.; Valle, Isabela Cortiana Machado; Rigo, Daniela; Signori, Luis Ulisses; Mota, Carlos Bolli; Solner, Matheus Weide								People with patellofemoral pain have task-dependent postural control alterations								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				74				58	64		10.1016/j.ptsp.2025.05.006			JUL 2025	2025	Objectives: To compare postural control between people with and without patellofemoral pain (PFP) during the Star Excursion Balance Test (SEBT), single-legged stance, single-legged squat, and single-legged landing tasks. Design: Cross-sectional. Settings: Laboratory. Participants: Forty-four participants (22 with PFP and 22 controls). Main outcomes measures: Postural control was evaluated by measuring reach distance in three directions during the SEBT, and center of pressure (CoP) behavior during the single-legged tasks. Results: The PFP group demonstrated a larger CoP ellipse area during the single-legged squat (effect size [ES] = 0.82, p < 0.01) and landing tasks (ES = 0.70, p < 0.05) compared to controls. Additionally, the PFP group showed alterations in anteroposterior CoP behavior during the single-legged squat compared to controls, including increased displacement (ES = 0.78, p < 0.01), trajectory length (ES = 0.62, p < 0.05), and velocity (ES = 0.61, p < 0.03). No significant differences were found between groups for any distance in the SEBT or for CoP variables during the single-legged stance. Conclusions: People with PFP exhibit postural control alterations during more dynamic tasks, such as singlelegged squats and landings. However, no alteration during static tasks like single-leg stance or during any SEBT direction were observed.		[Nunes, Guilherme S.; Valle, Isabela Cortiana Machado; Rigo, Daniela; Signori, Luis Ulisses; Solner, Matheus Weide] Fed Univ St Maria, Dept Physiotherapy & Rehabil, Santa Maria, RS, Brazil; [Mota, Carlos Bolli] Univ Fed Santa Maria, Dept Sports Methods & Tech, Santa Maria, RS, Brazil; [Nunes, Guilherme S.] Fed Univ St Maria, Dept Physiotherapy & Rehabil, Santa Maria, RS, Brazil; [Nunes, Guilherme S.] Ave Roraima 1000, BR-97105900 Santa Maria, RS, Brazil								1							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001502350700001	40	Article; Article		
J	Schornstein, Barbara J.; Wells, Meredith D.; Dickin, D. Clark; Jutte, Lisa S.; Wang, Henry								Biomechanical adjustments during an exhaustive treadmill run: comparison of compression tights and running shorts								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	9			2696	2706		10.1080/14763141.2025.2508241			SEP 2 2025	2025	Fatigue induces changes to running form resulting in movements that are less efficient. Reducing the amount of fatigue and its subsequent effect on form is valuable for improving running performance. It is unknown what effects compressive clothing has on musculature; however, there have been claims that it may reduce fatigue. The aim of this study was to determine whether compressive tights or running shorts are more beneficial for improving performance when running to exhaustion. Eleven runners ran at their current five-kilometre race pace on a treadmill to voluntary exhaustion in a repeated measures design wearing both compression tights and running shorts while their biomechanics, heart rate and rate of perceived exertion were recorded. Fatigue effects showed a less extended knee angle (p = 0.03) and a smaller ankle dorsiflexion angle (p = 0.04) at initial contact, and increased loading rate (p = 0.02) and vertical impact peak (p = 0.05). Condition effects included a shorter stride length (p = 0.01), faster stride rate (p = 0.01), and decreased hip range of motion (p = 0.02) with compression tights. There was no significant difference in time to exhaustion between conditions (p = 0.88). Thus, the length of time to fatigue was unaffected by condition, however, the altered mechanics when running in compression tights may reduce potential injury.		[Schornstein, Barbara J.; Dickin, D. Clark; Wang, Henry] Ball State Univ, Sch Kinesiol, Muncie, IN 47306 USA; [Wells, Meredith D.] Superfeet Worldwide LLC, Ferndale, WA USA; [Jutte, Lisa S.] Xavier Univ, Coll Profess, Cincinnati, OH USA; [Wang, Henry] Ball State Univ, Sch Kinesiol, Muncie, IN 47306 USA								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001493094600001	36	Article; Article		
J	Deuker, Albert; Wittkugel, Joris; Jakobs, Joerg; Raabe, Dominik; Vogt, Tobias								Shall we double the box? - Pitch scaling strategies for enhanced representativeness in soccer training								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	4			1516	1531		10.1177/17479541251343589			AUG 2025	2025	Purpose While UEFA soccer pitches have an area per player (APP) of 325m(2), Small-Sided Games (SSG) are commonly designed with an APP of approximately 150m(2), thus lacking spatial representativeness. We hypothesize that sub-tasks scaled by a match-derived APP more accurately simulate spatial full-size match conditions compared to prototypical conventional strategies and evaluate this empirically. Methods Positional data was gathered using a crossover, controlled, trial-based methodology with a professional farm team of a German Bundesliga club to quantify spatial representativeness. A total of N = 60 trials contrasted two SSG-based designs (S5vs5 and S7vs7) and two representatively scaled designs (RP5vs5 and RP7vs7) and compared the inter-personal positioning (dyadic distances in attack and defense, Delaunay triangle area) to the spatial conditions of a referential 11vs11. Results Repeated measures ANOVA across the five conditions indicated that while the representative designs resembled full-size condition, the SSG-scaled designs differed significantly from full-sized condition (contrasts full-size 11vs11 against S5vs5; S7vs7: distance to nearest mate in attack and defense, p < .001; distance to nearest opponent, p < .001, and Delaunay Triangle Area in attack and defense, p < .001). Two elements enhanced spatial representativeness: increasing the APP, regardless of format, and involving more players in the format, both led to a closer resemblance to the full-sized 11vs11 condition. Conclusion The data suggest that a match-derived APP allows players to better explore spatial affordances in practice, preparing them for full-size matches. We encourage coaches to design practice formats with a stronger sensitivity to spatial task representativeness.		[Deuker, Albert; Wittkugel, Joris; Jakobs, Joerg; Vogt, Tobias] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Profess Sport Educ & Sport Qualificat, Sect Didact & Methodol Sports, North Rhine Westphalia,AmSportpark Mungersdorf 6,D, D-50933 Cologne, Germany; [Raabe, Dominik] Raabe Analyt, D-50933 Cologne, Germany; [Deuker, Albert] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Profess Sport Educ & Sport Qualificat, Sect Didact & Methodol Sports, North Rhine Westphalia,AmSportpark Mungersdorf 6,D, D-50933 Cologne, Germany								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001494165500001	53	Article; Article		
J	Jaffri, Abbis; Koldenhoven, Rachel; Lempke, Alexandra; Park, Joseph; Hart, Joe; Hertel, Jay; Saliba, Susan								Intrinsic foot muscles size and quality changes after impairment-based rehabilitation in patients with chronic ankle instability								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				74				51	57		10.1016/j.ptsp.2025.05.008			JUL 2025	2025	Objective: To determine IFMs size and quality using US imaging following rehabilitation in patients with CAI. Design: Prospective cohort study. Settings: University Laboratory. Participants: 26 patients with CAI (age:21.9 +/- 3.5 yrs; 18F, 8M) completed 8 clinician-supervised rehabilitation sessions over a 4-week period. Main outcome measures: US imaging assessed IFM cross-sectional area (CSA) in seated and standing positions for both trained and untrained legs before and after the intervention. Muscle quality was evaluated using grey scale analysis for echogenicity. Results: Significant (P <0.01) increases in normalized CSA were observed for AbH and FDB in both seated and standing positions. Significant improvements (P <0.05) were also seen in the untrained leg during standing. No significant changes were found in seated positions or in echogenicity for AbH (P = 0.26) and FDB (P = 0.052) for the trained leg. Conclusion: IFM CSA increased post-rehabilitation, with some cross-over effects in the untrained leg. There was a certain cross-over effect observed. The muscle quality measures didn't change for the IFMs before and after rehabilitation. The IFMs strengthening should be included in CAI rehabilitation programs. There is a definite increase in size after rehabilitation. However, for quality changes there may be a need of longer rehabilitation programs.		[Koldenhoven, Rachel; Lempke, Alexandra; Park, Joseph; Hart, Joe; Hertel, Jay; Saliba, Susan] Univ Virginia, Dept Kinesiol, Charlottesville, VA USA; [Jaffri, Abbis] Creighton Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, 2500 Calif Plaza, Omaha, NE 68178 USA; [Hart, Joe] Univ North Carolina, Sch Med, Chapel Hill, NC USA; [Lempke, Alexandra] Virginia Commonwealth Univ, Dept Phys Med & Rehabil, Richmond, VA USA; [Koldenhoven, Rachel] Texas State Univ, Dept Hlth & Human Serv, San Marcos, TX USA; [Jaffri, Abbis] Creighton Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, 2500 Calif Plaza, Omaha, NE 68178 USA								2							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001501272200001	41	Article; Article		
J	Villarejo-Garcia, Diego H.; Puche-Ortuno, Daniel; Gomez-Carmona, Carlos D.; Pino-Ortega, Jose								Multivariate analysis of performance indicators in elite women's futsal: A principal component approach to understanding game dynamics								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	6			2463	2472		10.1177/17479541251343609			DEC 2025	2025	The current study analysed Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) specific to high-performing female futsal players using univariate and multivariate statistical approaches to better understand team dynamics in conjunction with individual performance. Data were collected from a sample of 10 female futsal players (mean age: 23.9 +/- 3.4 years) over 25 official matches of the Spanish first division. Twenty KPIs were selected in collaboration with coaches and researchers to represent diverse offensive and defensive aspects of play. This study used observational methods and principal component analysis (PCA) to reduce the dimensionality of data and determine key performance factors. Descriptive statistics and factor analysis were conducted, with Kaiser-Meyer-Olkin (KMO = 0.63) values and communalities evaluated for sampling adequacy. PCA shown two main components explaining 64.09% of the total variance. The first component, "Aggressiveness in Attack", (47.02% variance), was strongly associated with offensive production, including high rates of goal plays, shots, goals, assists, and fouls received. The second component, "Forceful Defence" (17.07% variance), primarily reflected defensive effectiveness, characterized by high rates of successful disputes, ball recoveries, and defensive intensity indicators, along with fewer ball losses. Individual player profiles revealed distinct tactical roles, with some players showing strong tendencies toward either offensive or defensive abilities. In conclusion, the use of multivariate analyses provides valuable insights into the performance of women's futsal, offering practical implications for coaches and players seeking to improve strategies and enhance individual and team performance through data-informed training and tactical planning.		[Villarejo-Garcia, Diego H.; Puche-Ortuno, Daniel; Pino-Ortega, Jose] Univ Murcia, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Act & Sport, San Javier, Spain; [Gomez-Carmona, Carlos D.; Pino-Ortega, Jose] Univ Murcia, BioVetMed & SportSci Res Grp, Murcia, Spain; [Gomez-Carmona, Carlos D.] Univ Zaragoza, Dept Mus Plast & Body Express, Res Grp Training Phys Act & Sports Performance ENF, Teruel, Spain; [Gomez-Carmona, Carlos D.] Univ Extremadura, Res Grp Optimizat Training & Sports Performance GO, Caceres, Spain; [Gomez-Carmona, Carlos D.] Univ Zaragoza, Fac Human & Social Sci, C Atarazanas 4, Teruel 44003, Spain								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001493316700001	33	Article; Article		
J	Facchini, Mauricio; Afonso, Jose; Ramos, Ana; Coutinho, Patricia; Nakamura, Fabio Yuzo; Clemente, Filipe Manuel; Mesquita, Isabel; Ribeiro, Joao								Exploring the interplay between long-term planned goals and short-term plan implementation in coaching a youth male soccer team: A qualitative case study								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	5			2159	2169		10.1177/17479541251341429			OCT 2025	2025	In soccer, planning should be based on long-term goals but is typically highly dictated by each week's game. Planning unfolds through the constant interplay between long-term goals and short-term constraints, making it one of the biggest challenges for coaches to articulate and intertwine these two timeframes. This qualitative case study explored how a soccer coach managed the interplay between contents planned in the long-term and the implementation of short-term plans in a youth soccer team. One coach and twelve players participated in this study over eight consecutive weeks. The lead author assumed the dual role of researcher and head-coach, collecting data through documented coach planning, field notes, and reflective diary. Data was examined through thematic analysis, which emerged three major themes: (1) changes in short-term planning due to intrinsic factors (e.g., responses to the proposed drills); (2) adaptations in short-term planning due to extrinsic factors (e.g., absence of the players in training); (3) consequences of the interplay between short-term and long-term planning contents. These factors led the coach to modify short-term training plans to address emerging player and team needs, resulting in adjustments to the sequence of long-term planned content. To support this process, the coach employed pedagogical approaches to design and adapt tasks within short-term plans while continuously assessing key performance indicators to advance long-term planning. Therefore, coaches can establish long-term goals to guide short-term planning. Still, these must remain flexible to accommodate players and the team's needs, reinforcing the dynamic interplay between planning and adaptation in coaching practice.		[Facchini, Mauricio; Afonso, Jose; Ramos, Ana; Coutinho, Patricia; Mesquita, Isabel; Ribeiro, Joao] Univ Porto, Fac Sport, Ctr Res Educ Innovat & Intervent Sport CIFI2D, Porto, Portugal; [Nakamura, Fabio Yuzo] Univ Maia, Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev CIDESD, Maia, Portugal; [Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Inst Politecn Viana do Castelo, Escola Super Desporto & Lazer, Rua Escola Ind & Comercial NunAlvares, Viana Do Castelo, Portugal; [Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, Gdansk, Poland; [Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Sport Phys Act & Hlth Res & Innovat Ctr, Viana Do Castelo, Portugal; [Facchini, Mauricio] Univ Porto, Fac Sport, Ctr Res Educ Innovat & Intervent Sport CIFI2D, Porto, Portugal								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001493323000001	47	Article; Article		
J	Lever, Jonathon R.; Murray, Andrew; Bartlett, Jonathan D.; Aurellado, Isabela; Duffield, Rob; Fullagar, Hugh H. K.								Revisiting the playbook: Coaches' opinions and current views of performance, development and load monitoring in highly-trained male youth basketball players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	5			1828	1838		10.1177/17479541251342023			OCT 2025	2025	This study examines basketball coaches' perceptions and current views on performance, player development, and training load monitoring in highly trained male youth academy basketball players. Through semi-structured interviews with nine coaches, we explore their philosophies on player performance, key indicators of success, and the integration of training load monitoring into their coaching practices. Reflexive thematic analysis identified 37 lower-order themes and 14 higher-order themes, which were categorized into four dimensions: Holistic Preparation, Physical and Athletic Performance, Measurement of Physical Output, and Integration of Data. Coaches emphasized psychological, skill-based, and physical aspects of player development, particularly lateral quickness, explosive movements, and coachability. While some coaches value data-informed approaches to optimize training and mitigate injury risk, others remain skeptical about its practical impact. By investigating how coaches perceive and apply performance monitoring, this study provides insights into bridging subjective coaching expertise with objective data analysis. The findings offer practical applications for sport scientists and coaching staff seeking to enhance developmental pathways for highly trained youth basketball players.		[Lever, Jonathon R.; Aurellado, Isabela; Duffield, Rob; Fullagar, Hugh H. K.] Univ Technol Sydney, Fac Hlth, Sch Sport Exercise & Rehabil, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Lever, Jonathon R.; Murray, Andrew; Bartlett, Jonathan D.; Aurellado, Isabela] Natl Basketball Assoc, Int Basketball Operat, New York, NY USA; [Lever, Jonathon R.] Univ Notre Dame, Sports Performance, Notre Dame, IN USA; [Bartlett, Jonathan D.] Manchester Metropolitan Univ, Inst Sport, Dept Sport & Exercise Sci, Manchester, England; [Fullagar, Hugh H. K.] Aspetar Orthopaed & Sports Med Hosp, Doha, Qatar; [Fullagar, Hugh H. K.] Reykjavik Univ, Dept Sport Sci, Reykjavik, Iceland; [Lever, Jonathon R.] Univ Technol Sydney, Fac Hlth, Sch Sport Exercise & Rehabil, Sydney, NSW, Australia								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001492600400001	39	Article; Article		
J	Steinberg, Nili; Elbaz, Liav; Eliakim, Alon; Nemet, Dan; Bar-Sella, Shelly; Peleg, Smadar; Dar, Gali								Prevalence and physical features associated with tendon, bone, and joint pain in young artistic, acrobatic, and rhythmic female gymnasts								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				74				39	50		10.1016/j.ptsp.2025.05.007			JUL 2025	2025	Objectives: To evaluate the prevalence of tendon, bone, and joint pain, and to examine the physical features associated with pain, in young artistic, acrobatic, and rhythmic female gymnasts. Design: Cross-sectional. Participants: 274 gymnasts, aged 9-16 years. Main outcome: All gymnasts were clinically assessed for joint, bone, and tendon pain and for training-impact, anthropometric-measures, bone-properties, muscle-strength, and joint range-of-motion (ROM). Results: Pain was identified in 69.7 % of the participants. Artistic gymnasts suffered a higher prevalence of tendon and bone pain compared to rhythmic gymnasts (p = 0.011 and p = 0.005, respectively). Logistic-regression showed that greater BMI% and lower plantar-flexor strength were associated with tendon pain; greater BMI%, increased age, menarche, reduced tibial-strength, and reduced muscle strength with bone pain; and, increased age, reduced muscle strength and increased ROM with joint pain (p < 0.05). A reduced risk of tendon and joint pain was found in rhythmic and acrobatic gymnasts compared to artistic gymnasts, and reduced risk of bone pain when practicing rhythmic gymnastics compared to artistic gymnastics (p < 0.05). Conclusions: Young female gymnasts are at a high risk of developing pain during training. Physical features are specific to pain categories and to gymnastics disciplines. Clinically, young gymnasts should be routinely screened for physical features and for injuries.		[Steinberg, Nili; Elbaz, Liav; Bar-Sella, Shelly; Peleg, Smadar] Acad Coll Levinsky Wingate, Wingate Campus, Netanya, Israel; [Eliakim, Alon; Nemet, Dan] Tel Aviv Univ, Child Hlth & Sport Ctr, Meir Med Ctr, Sackler Sch Med,Pediat, Tel Aviv, Israel; [Dar, Gali] Univ Haifa, Fac Social Welf & Hlth Studies, Dept Phys Therapy, Haifa, Israel; [Steinberg, Nili] Acad Coll Levinsky Wingate, Wingate Inst, Wingate campus, Netanya, Israel								2							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001498985400001	64	Article; Article		
J	Kinnerk, Paul; Kearney, Philip E.; Harvey, Stephen; Lyons, Mark								Gaelic Football Coaches' Use of a Game-Based Approach Impacts Game Performance, Session Characteristics, and Player Perceptions								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				96	4			732	747		10.1080/02701367.2025.2496263			OCT 2 2025	2025	This study investigated the impact of a Game-Based Approach (GBA) intervention on practice session characteristics, player performance outcomes, and perceptions within Gaelic football. Employing a mixed-methods multiple baseline design, two squads (Under 14 and Under 15) from a Gaelic football academy underwent the intervention, one after 4 weeks and the other after 9 weeks of baseline. Framed by Complex Learning Theory (CLT), the intervention comprised systematic observations of coaching sessions, quantitative assessment of skill execution and decision-making in assessment games, and qualitative interviews and focus groups with players. The GBA intervention positively influenced practice session characteristics, promoting playing form and non-linear sequencing of activities. The evaluation of players' game performance showed significant improvement across all decision-making variables for both squads. In skill execution, there was limited support, with improvements observed only in the Under 14 squad. Systematic tracking of practice activity sequencing, supported by player data, revealed players' awareness of purposeful organization, with the explicit connection between tasks fostering knowledge development and reflection, potentially enhancing decision-making. While players appreciated conditioned games and the tactical curriculum, they were less receptive to the player-centered strategy of "player huddles." The comprehensive data collection approach of this study fills gaps in sports coaching research, offering insights into the design and efficacy of GBA interventions. GBA interventions are suggested to enhance player performance and session quality, providing guidance for coaches in optimizing training methodologies. Integration of GBA pedagogy with CLT offers a promising framework for coaches seeking tangible changes in their practice.		[Kinnerk, Paul; Kearney, Philip E.; Lyons, Mark] Univ Limerick, Dept Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Limerick V94T9PX, Ireland; [Harvey, Stephen] Ohio Univ, Athens, OH 45701 USA; [Kinnerk, Paul] Univ Limerick, Dept Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Limerick V94T9PX, Ireland								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001490725800001	64	Article; Article		
J	Okunuki, Takumi; Yamaguchi, Ryusei; Wakamiya, Kazuki; Maemichi, Toshihiro; Liu, Zijian; Ogawa, Yuki; Kobayashi, Yusuke; Nagamoto, Hideaki; Hoshiba, Takuma; Kumai, Tsukasa								Activities of the intrinsic muscles of the foot and lower leg during a single-leg stance and drop landing in individuals with chronic ankle instability								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				74				32	38		10.1016/j.ptsp.2025.05.003			JUL 2025	2025	Objectives: The aim of this study was to compare intrinsic foot muscle activity during single-leg standing and single-leg drop landing between participants with and without chronic ankle instability. Design: A cross-sectional study. Setting: Laboratory. Participants: Twelve participants with chronic ankle instability and eleven control participants. Main outcome measures: The main outcomes were the muscle activities of the abductor hallucis, abductor digiti minimi, peroneus longus, and soleus muscles and the center of pressure during single-leg standing and single-leg drop landing. Results: Participants with chronic ankle stability showed increased soleus muscle activity during single-leg standing with eyes closed and after single-led drop landing compared with that of controls. In the chronic ankle instability group, lower Cumberland Ankle Instability Tool scores were associated with reduced abductor digit minimi muscle activity during landing. No significant differences were found in other outcomes. Conclusions: Reduced abductor digit minimi muscle activity may be associated with greater severity of chronic ankle instability. Increased soleus muscle activity in individuals with chronic ankle instability may serve as a compensatory mechanism for other impairments during single-leg standing with eyes closed and single-leg drop landing tasks.		[Okunuki, Takumi] Ritsumeikan Univ, Japan Soc Promot Sci, Res Org Sci & Technol, Tokyo, Japan; [Okunuki, Takumi; Yamaguchi, Ryusei; Wakamiya, Kazuki; Liu, Zijian; Ogawa, Yuki; Kobayashi, Yusuke] Waseda Univ, Grad Sch Sport Sci, Saitama, Japan; [Okunuki, Takumi; Maemichi, Toshihiro] Toyo Univ, Inst Life Innovat Studies, Tokyo, Japan; [Maemichi, Toshihiro; Kumai, Tsukasa] Waseda Univ, Fac Sport Sci, 2-579-15 Mikajima, Tokorozawa, Saitama 3591192, Japan; [Nagamoto, Hideaki; Hoshiba, Takuma] Waseda Inst Sport Sci, Saitama, Japan; [Kumai, Tsukasa] Waseda Univ, Fac Sport Sci, 2-579-15 Mikajima, Tokorozawa, Saitama 3591192, Japan								1							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001495146300002	41	Article; Article		
J	Frederick, Ginny M.; Threadgill, E. Grace; Yli-Piipari, Sami; Kirk, T. N.								Validity of the International Physical Activity Questionnaire-Short Form Among Individuals With Visual Impairments								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				96	4			723	731		10.1080/02701367.2025.2494266			OCT 2 2025	2025	This study (a) assessed the concurrent validity of the International Physical Activity Questionnaire-Short Form (IPAQ-SF) compared to accelerometer data among individuals with visual impairments (VI); (b) examined differences in validity of the IPAQ-SF among those with no usable vision (NUV) and those with some usable vision (SUV); and (c) assessed validity using both Freedson and Troiano cutpoints. Eighty adults with VI (M-age = 47.7; 62.5% female) wore waist-mounted accelerometers for seven days then completed the IPAQ-SF. For data analysis, participants were grouped by VI level as having SUV or NUV. Physical activity (PA) levels were compared using Mann-Whitney U tests, while Friedman tests assessed differences between IPAQ-SF and accelerometer-derived estimates. Chi-square tests assessed adherence to PA guidelines. Participants engaged in a median of 125.5 minutes of moderate-to-vigorous PA during the week. Agreement between IPAQ-SF and accelerometer-derived moderate and moderate-to-vigorous PA were moderate (rho = 0.49 and 0.50, respectively; both p < .01) though mean absolute percent error values were high. Agreement was similar across Freedson and Troiano cutpoints (rho range = 0.22-0.54; all p < .05) and slightly stronger among those with NUV compared to SUV. Agreement for sedentary behavior was negligible (rho < 0.20; p > .05). Self-reported MVPA from IPAQ-SF showed weak agreement with accelerometer data for both NUV and SUV groups. Researchers should use caution when using IPAQ-SF to assess PA in this population.		[Frederick, Ginny M.; Threadgill, E. Grace; Yli-Piipari, Sami; Kirk, T. N.] Univ Georgia, Athens, GA USA; [Frederick, Ginny M.] Univ Georgia, Dept Kinesiol, 330 River Rd, Athens, GA 30602 USA								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001487865100001	44	Article; Article		
J	Chiang, Chieh-Ying; Chiang, Yi-Chien; Chen, Wei-Yin; Weakley, Jonathon								"Which autoregulation strategy should we use?" the effects of velocity loss thresholds on RPE and their individual differences in the back squat								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	5			1929	1936		10.1177/17479541251339905			OCT 2025	2025	Velocity loss thresholds (VLT) and rating of perceived exertion (RPE) are two autoregulatory (AR) methods often implemented in resistance training. To provide coaches with a clearer understanding of the interplay of the two different methods, the aim of this study was to investigate the effects of 10%, 20%, 30% and 40% VLTs on RPE and repetition characteristics during the back squat exercise. 17 resistance-trained males performed one repetition max (1RM) back squat testing to determine individual load-velocity profiles. In a subsequent session, subjects completed sets to failure at 85% 1RM with 10%, 20%, 30%, and 40% VLTs. Kinematic outputs were measured with a linear position transducer, and RPE was recorded after each set. Significance was set at p < 0.05. Linear mixed models revealed significant effects of VLT on RPE and repetitions, with analyses demonstrating that RPE was significantly higher at greater VLT. Additionally, there was substantial inter-subject variability in the number of repetitions completed at each threshold. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that VLT significantly influence both perceived exertion and repetition characteristics and can help regulate the proximity to failure and exertion of athletes. Furthermore, the heterogenous response of RPE and repetitions between subjects suggests that VLT may induce varying levels of perceived exertion and repetition totals. This may be due to individual factors such as muscular endurance and ability to gauge exertion. Thus, AR prescriptive methods (e.g., RPE or VLT) should be used alongside traditional prescriptive methods to guide training and support the adjustment of training loads and volume.		[Chiang, Chieh-Ying] Natl Taiwan Sport Univ, Dept Sports Training Sci Combats, Technol Bldg 1F,250,Wenhua 1st Rd, Taoyuan 333, Taiwan; [Chiang, Chieh-Ying] Taiwan Inst Sports Sci, Dept Sport Sci Res, Kaohsiung, Taiwan; [Chiang, Yi-Chien; Chen, Wei-Yin] Natl Taiwan Sport Univ, Grad Inst Athlet & Coaching Sci, Taoyuan, Taiwan; [Weakley, Jonathon] Australian Catholic Univ, Sch Allied Hlth, Brisbane, Australia; [Weakley, Jonathon] Australian Catholic Univ, Sports Performance Recovery Injury & New Technol S, Brisbane, Australia; [Chiang, Chieh-Ying] Natl Taiwan Sport Univ, Dept Sports Training Sci Combats, Technol Bldg 1F,250,Wenhua 1st Rd, Taoyuan 333, Taiwan								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001488849100001	37	Article; Article		
J	Andrade-Lara, Karina Elizabeth; Huete, Victor Serrano; Montilla, Juan Antonio Parraga; Sanchez, Jesus Salas; Robles-Fuentes, Alejandro; Conceicao, Filipe; Roman, Pedro Angel Latorre								Physical fitness and motor competence percentiles: A multi-criteria approach to identify sporting potential in children								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	5			1889	1905		10.1177/17479541251341418			OCT 2025	2025	Aim: This study aimed to establish reference values for assessing physical fitness (PF) and motor competence (MC) in children aged 6 to 11 years, determine the prevalence of physically gifted and talented children and to explore the association between PF and MC as indicators of talent. Methods: 1108 Spanish schoolchildren aged 6 to 11 years (mean age = 8.45 +/- 1.70 years old; 51% boys) participated in this study. The PF tests included the 20 m SRT (CRF), 25 m sprint (speed), handgrip strength and SLJ tests (muscular strength), while MC was assessed using the SDT. To identify prevalence, two criteria from the Gagn & eacute; model were used: physical talent (>= 95th percentile in one or more tests) and physical giftedness (>= 75th percentile in all tests). Results: Boys demonstrated better performance compared to girls across all age groups: speed (p < 0.001; Cohen's d = 0.977), handgrip strength (p < 0.001; Cohen's d = 0.383), SLJ (p < 0.001; Cohen's d = 0.992) and CRF (p < 0.001; Cohen's d = 1.299). In the SDT, differences were observed between age groups (p < 0.001) but not between sexes. Likewise, boys showed a higher prevalence of talent (19% vs. 15%; p < 0.001) and physical giftedness (10% vs. 5%; p < 0.001) compared to girls. Additionally, different associations were found between PF and MC (p < 0.001). Conclusions: Boys showed a higher prevalence of being categorized as talented or physically gifted than girls. Furthermore, differences in PF and MC are influenced by sex and age, with boys showing a better performance in PF.		[Andrade-Lara, Karina Elizabeth; Montilla, Juan Antonio Parraga; Roman, Pedro Angel Latorre] Univ ofJaen, Dept Mus Plast & Corporal Express, Jaen 23071, Spain; [Huete, Victor Serrano] Int Univ La Rioja, Dept Phys Educ Didact & Hlth, Logrono, Spain; [Sanchez, Jesus Salas] Univ Autonoma Chile, Int Univ Rioja, Fac Educ, Logrono, Spain; [Robles-Fuentes, Alejandro] Ayuntamiento Santiago Pontones, Jaen, Spain; [Conceicao, Filipe] Univ Porto, Fac Sports, Ctr Res Educ Innovat & Intervent Sport, LABIOMEP Porto Biomech Lab, Porto, Portugal; [Andrade-Lara, Karina Elizabeth] Univ ofJaen, Dept Mus Plast & Corporal Express, Jaen 23071, Spain								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001488842100001	79	Article; Article		
J	Fernandes, Carla dos Santos; Fernandes, Mariana Tavares; Souto, Cassio de Oliveira; Ladislau, Brenda Rodrigues; Alves, Bruna Cristina de Jesus; Sengling, Larissa Verona; de Faria, Juliana Xavier; Lobato, Daniel Ferreira Moreira								Effects of the FIFA 11+kids program on hip and knee muscle torque in soccer players of different age groups: a prospective quasi-experimental study								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	9			2647	2661		10.1080/14763141.2025.2498331			SEP 2 2025	2025	This study compares the effects of the FIFA 11+ Kids program on lower limb isometric torque among young soccer athletes. Sixty-six male soccer athletes (aged 6-14 years) were allocated for convenience into three groups of different ages: G1 = 12-14 years, G2 = 9-11 years, and G3 = 6-8 years, on whom muscle assessments of isometric knee flexor and extensor torque and of isometric hip abductor and adductor torque were conducted before and after 8 weeks of the intervention. There was an increase in knee extensor torque (p < 0.001) in G1 and G2 and in knee flexor torque in G1 and G3 (p < 0.05) after the intervention, as well as an increase in hip abductor torque in G3 (p = 0.012). Further observations include an increase in hip adductor torque among all groups (p < 0.05) and in time-to-peak knee extensor torque in G1 (p = 0.005), as well as a decrease in time-to-peak knee extensor and hip adductor torque in G3 (p < 0.05) and in time-to-peak knee flexor torque in G2 (p = 0.022). As such, the FIFA 11+Kids program may produce a positive effect on knee extensor/flexor torque and hip abductor/adductor torque in young soccer athletes of different age groups, with an even greater effect when applied early (6-8 years).		[Fernandes, Carla dos Santos; Fernandes, Mariana Tavares; Souto, Cassio de Oliveira; Ladislau, Brenda Rodrigues; Alves, Bruna Cristina de Jesus; Sengling, Larissa Verona; de Faria, Juliana Xavier; Lobato, Daniel Ferreira Moreira] Univ Fed Triangulo Mineiro, Dept Appl Phys Therapy, Uberaba, Brazil; [Lobato, Daniel Ferreira Moreira] Univ Fed Triangulo Mineiro, Dept Appl Phys Therapy, Uberaba, Brazil								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001487863400001	39	Article; Article		
J	Oliveira, Saulo F. M.; Oliveira, Jose Igor, V; Alves, Joao Fillype V. V.; Lourenco, Thiago; Haiachi, Marcelo C.; Felder, Hanno								Muscle power performance in parabadminton athletes: Influence of classification, impairment type, and anthropometric factors								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	6			2587	2595		10.1177/17479541251341500			DEC 2025	2025	This study compared muscle power indicators among Parabadminton athletes and identified the contributions of anthropometric factors and types of impairment. Seventy-four athletes, comprising 47 in the ST group (STANDING-ST, SL3, SL4, SU5, and SH6) and 27 in the WH group (WHEELCHAIR-WH, WH1 and WH2), underwent muscle power tests. The ST group performed three countermovement jumps (CMJ), measuring maximum height (CMJMax, cm), percentage of maximum height (%CMJMax), power (PO, W), and reactivity index (RI). The WH group performed three medicine ball throws, with the best throw (BEST, m), percentage of the best throw (%DIFMax), absolute power (PO, W), and relative power (PO, W/kg) measured. MANCOVA comparison tests were conducted (p < 0.05). For PO (W), SU5 athletes exhibited higher values than SL3 and SH6 athletes (1920 W vs. 1020 W and 814 W), and SL4 athletes showed higher values than SL3 and SH6 athletes (1604 W vs. 1020 W and 814 W). In the WH group, BEST and PO (W) were superior for the WH2 class (5.27 m vs. 6.40 m; and 10.5 W vs. 12.8 W). In the ST group, type of impairment and body mass index significantly influenced CMJMax (F = 522.837, p = 0.028) and RI (F = 561.829, p = 0.023), while in the WH group, the sport classes influenced BEST (F = 8.410, p = 0.008) and PO (W) (F = 96.181, p = 0.005), with height affecting BEST (F = 19.154, p < 0.001) and PO (W) (F = 191.539, p < 0.001). It can be concluded that type of impairment, body mass index, and height influence the best indicators of muscle power regardless of the classes analyzed.		[Oliveira, Saulo F. M.; Alves, Joao Fillype V. V.] Univ Fed Pernambuco, Dept Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Movement Rehabil & Sport Study Grp, Recife, Brazil; [Oliveira, Jose Igor, V] Univ Estadual Campinas, Sch Phys Educ, Appl Kinesiol Lab, Ave Er Verissimo 701 Geraldo, BR-13083851 Campinas, Brazil; [Lourenco, Thiago] Brazilian Paralymp Comm, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Haiachi, Marcelo C.] Univ Fed Sergipe, Dept Phys Educ, Aracaju, Brazil; [Felder, Hanno] Hermann Neuberger Sportschule, Olymp Training Ctr Rhineland Palatinate Saarland, Saarbrucken, Germany; [Oliveira, Jose Igor, V] Univ Estadual Campinas, Sch Phys Educ, Appl Kinesiol Lab, Ave Er Verissimo 701 Geraldo, BR-13083851 Campinas, Brazil								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001486594600001	33	Article; Article		
J	Campos, Bruno Teobaldo; Rodrigues, Joao Gabriel da Silveira; Abad, Cesar Cavinato Cal								Absolute and relative peak power and optimum power load in Back Squat and bent-over row exercises in judo athletes: The role of body weight								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	6			2603	2612		10.1177/17479541251341501			DEC 2025	2025	This study aimed to compare absolute and relative peak power outputs at the optimal power load (OPL) between upper and lower limbs, as well as between lighter and heavier high-level judo athletes of both sexes. A total of 34 black belt judokas (26 men and 8 women) with extensive training backgrounds participated in this cross-sectional study. Athletes were tested during the pre-season for peak power output (PP) and OPL expressed as a percentage of body weight (OPL%BW) in two exercises: Back Squat (lower limbs) and Bent-Over Row (upper limbs). A linear encoder measured bar velocity and power output. Data were analyzed in absolute terms, relative to body mass, and using allometric scaling. The results showed that male athletes exhibited significantly higher absolute PP than females in both exercises. Lighter athletes showed greater relative and allometric PP values than heavier athletes. No significant difference in absolute PP was found between upper and lower limbs. However, OPL%BW was significantly higher in the Back Squat compared to the Bent-Over Row. No difference in OPL%BW was observed between weight categories. In conclusion, lower-limb exercises require a higher percentage of body mass to reach OPL, while power output is similarly developed in both limbs, likely due to sport-specific demands. These findings support the need for individualized training prescriptions based on limb, sex, and weight category to optimize performance in judo athletes.		[Campos, Bruno Teobaldo; Abad, Cesar Cavinato Cal] SESI, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Rodrigues, Joao Gabriel da Silveira] Univ Fed Minas Gerais, Belo Horizonte, Brazil; [Campos, Bruno Teobaldo] SESI, Sao Paulo, Brazil								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001485981600001	39	Article; Article		
J	Brunelli, Matteo; Brunelli, Giulia; Wilson, Cassie; Delahunt, Eamonn; Nutarelli, Sebastiano								One exercise session a day keeps the physio away: effect of a newly designed daily exercise programme on injury prevention in youth football-A randomised controlled trial								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				74				9	17		10.1016/j.ptsp.2025.04.005			JUL 2025	2025	Objectives: To compare the effect of a newly conceived daily injury prevention programme with FIFA11+ on injury incidence and severity in academy football players. Design: Randomised controlled trial. Setting: Football academy. Participants: Ninety-three male academy football players were randomly assigned to either the control group (FIFA11+ or FIFA11+ Kids) or the intervention group (new injury prevention programme). Main outcome measures: Injury incidence rate (per 1000 hours) and severity (days lost). Results: Over 6 months, the control group recorded 45 injuries (incidence rate = 9.07/1000 hours), while the intervention group recorded 50 injuries (incidence rate = 10.10/1000 hours). The median number of days lost was 16 [95% confidence interval: 11, 27] in the control group and 15 [95% confidence interval: 7, 23] in the intervention group. No significant differences were found in injury incidence or severity between the two groups. Conclusions: The newly conceived injury prevention programme was as effective as the FIFA11+ in reducing injury incidence and severity, thus representing an easy-to-implement injury prevention programme for football academies. Trial registration: The trial was registered with the Australian New Zealand Clinical Trials Registry (ACTRN12623000359639) retrospectively, as it was initially conducted for academic purposes, negating the requirement for prospective registration.		[Brunelli, Matteo; Wilson, Cassie] Univ Bath, Dept Hlth, Bath BA2 7AY, England; [Brunelli, Matteo] Lamex Stadium, Acad Med & Sports Sci Dept, Broadhall Way, Stevenage SG2 8RH, England; [Brunelli, Giulia] Univ Siena, Med Genet, Banchi Sotto 55, I-53100 Siena, Italy; [Brunelli, Giulia] Univ Siena, Med Biotech Hub & Competence Ctr, Dept Med Biotechnol, Banchi Sotto 55, I-53100 Siena, Italy; [Brunelli, Giulia] CNR, Inst Informat & Telematics, Via Giuseppe Moruzzi, I-56124 Pisa, Italy; [Delahunt, Eamonn; Nutarelli, Sebastiano] Univ Coll Dublin, Sch Publ Hlth Physiotherapy & Sports Sci, Dublin, Ireland; [Delahunt, Eamonn] Univ Coll Dublin, Inst Sport & Hlth, Dublin, Ireland; [Nutarelli, Sebastiano] EOC, Dept Surg, Serv Orthopaed & Traumatol, Via Capelli 1, CH-6962 Lugano, Switzerland; [Nutarelli, Sebastiano] Sports Rehab, Phys Therapy & Sports Med Ctr, Via Balestra 11, CH-6900 Lugano, Switzerland; [Brunelli, Matteo] London Stadium, Med & Sports Sci Dept, London E20 2ST, England; [Brunelli, Matteo] Univ Bath, Dept Hlth, Bath BA2 7AY, England								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001491283200001	40	Article; Article		
J	Qi, Yufei; Li, Fang; Yin, Yao; Lin, Qian; Hamzah, Sareena Hanim; Peng, Wenzhi								Ecological Network Analysis: Utilizing Machine Learning to Unravel the Effects of Multilevel Pathways of Moderate⁃to⁃Vigorous Physical Activity Facilitators Among School Children								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				96	4			637	649		10.1080/02701367.2025.2478870			OCT 2 2025	2025	The objective of the present study was to ascertain whether the association between moderate-to-vigorous intensity physical activity (MVPA) levels and individual, interpersonal, organizational, and environmental factors among school children is influenced by their attitudes toward emerging sports participants (ESP). To this end, machine learning (ML) was employed to analyze the data. This cross-sectional study, involved 655 child-parent pairs in Changsha City to assess children's MVPA. Data were collected via self-administered questionnaires, evaluating MVPA levels and attitudes from children and caregivers. Various statistical models, including random forest and LASSO regression, were utilized for analysis. The study revealed that boys engaged in more MVPA than girls. Most participants liked ESP, with significant teacher support noted. Random forest and LASSO regression models identified key factors influencing MVPA, with notable variability among non-achievers. The gradient boosting machine and K-nearest neighbors models demonstrated similar predictive performance. The final model, comprising 37 parameters, indicated significant relationships between variables, particularly highlighting the importance of school offerings ESP and living near sports field. This study concludes that offering ESP in schools, along with positive modeling and encouragement from caregivers and peers, effectively enhances children's participation in MVPA. Living near sports field also positively impacts MVPA levels.		[Qi, Yufei; Li, Fang; Lin, Qian; Peng, Wenzhi] Cent South Univ, Changsha, Peoples R China; [Yin, Yao] Beijing Coll Finance & Commerce, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Hamzah, Sareena Hanim] Univ Malaya, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia; [Peng, Wenzhi] Cent South Univ, Dept Phys Educ & Res, 932 Lushan South Rd, Changsha 410083, Hunan, Peoples R China								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001485907700001	68	Article; Article		
J	Nyitrai, N.; James, C.; Brunton, M.; Edwards, S.								Face validity of a new aquatic skill assessment tool: RAEE (refuse, assist, effective, efficient)								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	4			1683	1692		10.1177/17479541251334018			AUG 2025	2025	Drowning is recognized globally as a neglected public health issue. Learning to swim is one important component of a multi-sectoral approach to drowning prevention. The assessment of aquatic skills can be complicated due to the variety of disparate approaches and programs found within learn-to-swim. Establishing the validity of any assessment tools is necessary. A descriptive qualitative design with face-to-face focus groups of AUSTSWIM trainers was used to establish the face validity of an assessment tool known as RAEE (Refuse, Assisted, Effective, Efficient), against the Australian Water Safety Council's 2016 benchmarked aquatic skills. Three assessment related themes were found: Issues with the competent/not yet competent approach; more wide-ranging concerns within the learn-to-swim industry in general; and the usefulness of the RAEE tool. This study confirmed the face validity of the RAEE assessment tool and was found to be a useful tool to implement in aquatic skills assessment.		[Nyitrai, N.; Edwards, S.] Univ Newcastle, Sch Hlth Sci, Callaghan, NSW, Australia; [James, C.; Edwards, S.] Univ Sydney, Sydney Sch Hlth Sci, Camperdown, NSW, Australia; [Brunton, M.] Australian Catholic Univ, Sch Exercise Sci, Strathfield, NSW, Australia; [Edwards, S.] Univ Sydney, Fac Med & Hlth, Sydney Sch Hlth Sci Discipline Exercise & Sport Sc, Susan Wakil Hlth Bldg, Camperdown, NSW 2006, Australia								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001484336300001	57	Article; Article		
J	Barley, Oliver R.; Vial, Shayne; Scanlan, Mark; Tapsell, Liam C.; Wilson, Corey; Giustiniano, Julian; Plush, Matthew G.; Doherty, Colin S.								Influence of height and reach on fight-ending punches in the ultimate fighting championship™ mixed martial arts promotion								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	5			2137	2148		10.1177/17479541251338509			OCT 2025	2025	In mixed martial arts, punches commonly lead to a knockout (KO) or technical knockout (TKO), though factors influencing such punches are unclear. This study assessed how differences in height, reach, and combined difference (height + reach) influence fight-ending punches. We analysed 264 Ultimate Fighting Championship contests that concluded with a KO/TKO from hooks, straights, uppercuts, or overhand punches. Three multinomial logistic regression analyses assessed the influence of (a) reach, (b) height and (c) combined difference on likelihood of punch type, with overhand punches as the reference category. Pairwise comparisons for punch type were conducted, and probability differences were compared across the lower, middle, and highest point difference for reach (-20, 0, + 20 cm), height (-20, + 10, + 40 cm), and combined (-50, 0, + 50 cm). The punches with the highest frequency were hooks (51%) and straights (35%). For all models, the straight punch was more likely than the overhand (odds ratio: 1.06-1.10, p < 0.05). At 0 cm and 20 cm reach difference, the punch probability differences for straight and uppercut punches compared to uppercut and overhand was between 27-47% (p < 0.05). Similar findings were observed at +10 cm height difference, but at height +40 cm straights were 76% more likely than uppercuts and overhands (p < 0.05) for bouts that concluded with a KO/TKO. The combined model showed similar results to the reach model findings. These results can help inform coaches and fighters to prepare both offensive and defensive tactics by providing information on the most likely fight-ending punch depending on their specific matchups.		[Barley, Oliver R.; Vial, Shayne; Scanlan, Mark; Tapsell, Liam C.; Wilson, Corey; Plush, Matthew G.; Doherty, Colin S.] Edith Cowan Univ, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, 270 Joondalup Dr, Joondalup, WA 6027, Australia; [Barley, Oliver R.] Edith Cowan Univ, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, 270 Joondalup Dr, Joondalup, WA 6027, Australia								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001483739500001	22	Article; Article		
J	Zheng, Shuaiwei; Wang, Hsuan-Po								The association between perceived coach identity leadership and athlete engagement: The chain mediating role of team communication and team resilience								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	4			1376	1385		10.1177/17479541251335164			AUG 2025	2025	This study aims to explore the association between perceived coach identity leadership and athlete engagement, as well as the mediating roles of team communication and team resilience in this process. Using a stratified random sampling method, a questionnaire survey was conducted with 672 athletes, utilizing the Identity Leadership Scale, the Scale for Effective Communication in Team Sports, the Characteristics of Resilience in Sports Teams Inventory, and the Athlete Engagement Scale. The average age of the participants was 20.73 years, with an average of 6.81 years of athletic experience, and all participants were athletes at the second-tier competitive level or above. Through correlational analysis and regression analysis of the collected valid data, the results revealed significant positive correlations between coaches' identity leadership, team communication, team resilience, and athlete engagement. Additionally, team communication and team resilience played both independent partial mediating roles and chain mediating roles between coaches' identity leadership and athlete engagement. These findings not only enrich social identity theory but also emphasize the important role of identity leadership in promoting team resources and athlete psychological development, highlighting the close connection between team resources and athlete psychology.		[Zheng, Shuaiwei; Wang, Hsuan-Po] Dhurakij Pundit Univ, Chinese Int Coll, Laksi Prachachuen Rd 110-1-4, Bangkok, Thailand; [Wang, Hsuan-Po] Dhurakij Pundit Univ, Chinese Int Coll, Laksi Prachachuen Rd 110-1-4, Bangkok, Thailand								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001481677100001	53	Article; Article		
J	Kostrna, Jason; Astudillo, Anamaria; Perez, Elizabeth								Effects of a Secondary Cognitive Task on Psychological and Stretch Performance								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				96	4			770	779		10.1080/02701367.2025.2496765			OCT 2 2025	2025	Extensive research supports the positive effects of stretching on joint flexibility. During stretching, an individual's perceptions of stretch-related discomfort and pain negatively influence affective response. This study examined the effects of a dissociative attentional strategy on performance and perception during stretching. To induce dissociation, participants completed a secondary cognitive task (mental math) during passive and active static stretching. Participants (n = 16) stretched in the following conditions: (1) active-mental math, (2) active-control, (3) passive-mental math, and (4) passive-control. Participants completed conditions in a block randomized order (i.e. Latin Square Design). MANOVA of range of motion (ROM) did not support an interaction of stretch and cognitive load condition or a main effect of cognitive load. However, there was a significant effect of stretch condition on pleasantness and a significant effect of cognitive load on perceived stretch intensity and pleasantness. Passive stretching resulted in a greater ROM, reduced perceived stretch intensity, and increased pleasantness compared to active stretching. The introduction of a secondary cognitive task resulted in no significant change to ROM, but did result in reduced perception of stretch intensity and increased pleasantness. Conclusion: These findings provide evidence that dissociation during static stretch can reduce perceived stretch intensity without reduction in ROM. This effect exists even during active stretching, with the added benefit of improved ROM.		[Kostrna, Jason; Astudillo, Anamaria; Perez, Elizabeth] Florida Int Univ, Dept Teaching & Learning, 11200 SW 8th St, Miami, FL 33199 USA; [Kostrna, Jason] Florida Int Univ, Dept Teaching & Learning, 11200 SW 8th St, Miami, FL 33199 USA								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001479290100001	65	Article; Article		
J	Nicholson, Gareth; Parelkar, Parag; Dinsdale, Alexander J.; Bissas, Athanassios; Walker, Josh								A comparison between common measurement systems for quantifying spatiotemporal variables during the early sprint acceleration phase								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	4			1651	1660		10.1177/17479541251333937			AUG 2025	2025	There has been increasing interest in new measurement systems that provide instantaneous spatiotemporal data whilst being less expensive and more accessible to practitioners. The aim of this study was to examine the agreement between the OptoJump Next system (OJ), videography and force platform methods for measuring spatiotemporal variables during the acceleration phase of sprinting. Ninety-nine university students completed two maximal 20 metre sprints in which spatiotemporal parameters (contact time [CT], flight time [FT], step length [SL] and step rate) were simultaneously obtained using the OJ system (1000 Hz), videography (200 Hz), and force platforms (1000 Hz). The OJ and video systems showed high agreement for the measurement of step length (bias: 0.003-0.007 m, random error [RE]: 0.057-0.071 m). For temporal parameters, OJ tended to overestimate CT compared to the force platforms (bias: 0.012-0.014 s, RE: 0.009-0.021 s) and also underestimated FT (bias: 0.012-0.013 s, RE: 0.011-0.012 s). Despite the lower sampling rate, videography showed a closer agreement with the force platform for both CT (bias: 0.005-0.010 s, RE: 0.009-0.021 s) and FT (bias: 0.005-0.007 s, RE: 0.008-0.010 s). Although OptoJump next provides instantaneous spatiotemporal parameters, coaches may wish to adjust for the systematic overestimation of CT (0.013 s) and underestimation of FT (0.012 s) in order to obtain sprint spatiotemporal data that aligns to force platforms.		[Nicholson, Gareth; Parelkar, Parag; Dinsdale, Alexander J.; Walker, Josh] Leeds Beckett Univ, Carnegie Sch Sport, Leeds, England; [Bissas, Athanassios] Univ Gloucestershire, Sch Educ & Appl Sci, Gloucester, England; [Nicholson, Gareth] Leeds Beckett Univ, 214 Fairfax Hall,Headingley Campus, Leeds LS6 3QT, England								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001478246900001	34	Article; Article		
J	Bedo, Bruno L. S.; Assis, Ronaldo D.; Alves, Arthur; Vieira, Luiz H. Palucci; Aquino, Rodrigo; Moura, Felipe A.								Effect of video assistant referee (VAR) system on match statistics: A nine-year retrospective analysis of the Brazilian national league								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	5			2044	2050		10.1177/17479541251334533			OCT 2025	2025	This study aimed to assess the impact of the Video Assistant Referee (VAR) system on soccer match statistics during the Brazilian Serie A/first division, using nine years of retrospective data from 3420 matches. Between 2015 and 2018, 1520 matches were played without VAR, while from 2019 to 2023, 1900 matches included using the VAR system. The variables include fouls, goals, offsides, penalties, playing time in each half, total playing time, and red and yellow cards. The data were obtained through an API and cross-verified with match summaries. A generalized linear model and pairwise z-tests were applied to compare seasons before and after the implementation of VAR, with a 95% significance level. The results revealed that VAR reduced the number of offsides and increased playing time in both halves, resulting in longer overall match durations. No significant changes were observed in yellow cards, red cards, penalties, or goals. These findings are consistent with results reported in other major leagues, suggesting that cultural factors may play a role in how VAR influences match statistics across different contexts.		[Bedo, Bruno L. S.; Assis, Ronaldo D.; Alves, Arthur] Univ Sao Paulo, Sch Phys Educ & Sport, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Vieira, Luiz H. Palucci] Univ Cesar Vallejo UCV, Fac Ingeniera & Arquitectura, Grp Invest Tecnol Aplicada Segur Ocupac Desempeno, Lima, Peru; [Aquino, Rodrigo] Univ Fed Espirito Santo, Ctr Phys Educ & Sports CEFD, Dept Sports, LabSport, Vitoria, ES, Brazil; [Moura, Felipe A.] Univ Estadual Londrina, Sport & Phys Educ Ctr, Londrina, PR, Brazil; [Bedo, Bruno L. S.] Univ Sao Paulo, Sch Phys Educ andSport, Dept Sport, Ave Prof Mello Moraes,65 Vila Univ, BR-05508030 Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001477831800001	29	Article; Article		
J	Kim, Yongjae; Kim, Soojin; Kim, Jeeyoon								Exploring the role of team-related cues on viewer behavior and engagement with corporate social marketing on sport team Twitter pages								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				26	5			1007	1030		10.1108/IJSMS-09-2024-0229			DEC 5 2025	2025	PurposeThe purpose of this study is to examine the role of team-related cues and team identification in influencing visual attention and engagement with corporate social marketing (CSM) messages on sport team Twitter pages.Design/methodology/approachAn experimental design was adopted using a 2 x 2 x 2 factorial approach, with two levels for each of the following factors: message framing (positive vs negative), team-related cues (with vs without team logos) and team identification (high vs low). Eye-tracking technology was used to identify visual attention and engagement with cause promotion messages. Eye-tracking data from 140 participants, recruited from the East Coast of the USA, were analyzed using a combination of statistical methods.FindingsThe results demonstrate that negatively framed messages with team logos significantly increase visual attention and engagement, especially among individuals with high team identification. Team-related cues were found to enhance the effect of negative message framing on visual attention, with this effect being further intensified by high levels of team identification. The study also reveals that visual engagement, as measured by duration time, mediates the relationship between message framing and donation behavior.Originality/valueThis study contributes to the literature by integrating message framing theory within the context of sport marketing, highlighting the complex interplay between message framing, team-related cues and team identification. By employing eye-tracking technology, the study provides novel insights into how visual attention impacts the effectiveness of CSM messages. Furthermore, this study provides actionable insights for optimizing digital marketing strategies in sport contexts to maximize the impact of CSM initiatives.		[Kim, Yongjae; Kim, Soojin] Kutztown Univ Penn, Dept Sport Management, Kutztown, PA 19530 USA; [Kim, Jeeyoon] Syracuse Univ, Dept Sport Management, David B Falk Coll Sport & Human Dynam, Syracuse, NY USA; [Kim, Soojin] Kutztown Univ Penn, Dept Sport Management, Kutztown, PA 19530 USA								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001474119300001	83	Article; Article		
J	Azizmohammadi, Sama; Seidi, Foad; Zandi, Shahrzad								Effect of a lumbopelvic stability training program on lower extremity kinematic parameters in low back pain developers during single-leg squat								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				73				181	191		10.1016/j.ptsp.2025.04.007			MAY 2025	2025	Objectives: Objective Altered movement patterns and lower extremity misalignment are key features in low back pain developers (LBPDs), leading to significant changes in functional movements such as squats. These changes may result in clinical low back pain (LBP) based on the kinesiopathology model. Core muscles are crucial for creating a stable platform for limb movement, but LBPDs typically have weak and poorly activated deep muscles, contributing to inefficient movement patterns. This study aims to assess the effect of a lumbopelvic stability program on lower extremity kinematics in LBPDs during single-leg squats (SLS). Design: Pre-post study. Setting: University dormitory gym. Participants: Thirty female participants identified as LBPDs, divided into two groups of experimental (n =15) and control (n = 15). Main outcome measures: Kinematic variables, including hip and knee flexion and abduction, and ankle dorsiflexion and abduction (eversion), were measured during SLS using two-dimensional video analysis before and after the intervention. Results: Significant differences were found in hip flexion (F = 13.36, p = 0.001), hip abduction (F = 73.42, p = 0.001), knee flexion (F = 23.65, p = 0.001), and knee abduction (F = 13.37, p = 0.001) post-intervention. Conclusion: A 6-week lumbopelvic stability program improved hip and knee kinematics in LBPDs, highlighting the importance of core stability in optimizing movement and potentially preventing future LBP.		[Azizmohammadi, Sama; Seidi, Foad; Zandi, Shahrzad] Univ Tehran, Fac Sport Sci & Hlth, Dept Hlth & Sports Med, Tehran, Iran; [Seidi, Foad] Univ Tehran, Fac Sport Sci & Hlth, Dept Hlth & Sports Med, Tehran, Iran								1							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001482694200001	65	Article; Article		
J	Bailey, Luke S.; Phillips, Joe; Farrell, George; McQuilliam, Stephen J.; Erskine, Robert M.								Effect of Six Weeks' Isometric Strength Training Compared to Traditional Strength Training on Gains in Strength, Power, and Speed in Male Academy Soccer Players								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				96	4			689	696		10.1080/02701367.2025.2488843			OCT 2 2025	2025	Purpose: Elevated sport-specific physical demands and congested fixture schedules leave little recovery time and augment fatigue levels in soccer players. Compared to traditional strength training (TST), isometric strength training (IST) may elicit comparative improvements in strength and performance-related parameters in soccer players, while reducing fatigue during periods of elevated competitive loading. Methods: This study compared the effects of 6-weeks' IST and TST on gains in strength, power, and speed in male academy soccer players. Eighteen athletes from a Football Association League 2 club's academy (age: 17.2 +/- 0.6 years, height: 1.79 +/- 0.06 m, body mass: 71.6 +/- 3.4 kg) were randomly assigned to either the IST (n = 9) or TST (n = 9) group. Baseline and post-training testing included trap bar squat one-repetition maximum (1-RM), isometric mid-thigh pull (IMTP), bilateral vertical countermovement jump (CMJ), and 10 m and 40 m linear sprints. Each group completed 12 training intervention sessions over six weeks, which comprised either an isometric or dynamic variation of a mid-thigh (clean) pull, split squat, and hip thrust. Results: Results indicated no group x time interaction effect on trap bar squat 1-RM (p = .171, eta(2)(p) = 0.107), IMTP peak force (p = .478, eta(2)(p) = 0.039), CMJ jump height (JH; p = .463, eta(2)(p) = 0.028), CMJ peak power (PP; p = .868, eta(2)(p) = 0.001), 10 m acceleration (p = .074, eta(2)(p) = 0.186), or sprint velocity (p = .348, eta(2)(p) = 0.058). However, there were main effects of time on trap bar squat 1-RM (p < .001, eta(2)(p) = 0.634), CMJ JH (p = .031, eta(2)(p) = 0.255) and sprint velocity (p = .012, eta(2)(p) = 0.324). Conclusion: In conclusion, IST is just as effective as TST in improving (or maintaining) strength, power, and speed during fixture-congested schedules in men's academy soccer.		[Bailey, Luke S.; McQuilliam, Stephen J.; Erskine, Robert M.] Liverpool John Moores Univ, Sch Sport & Exercise Sci, Liverpool L3 3AF, England; [Bailey, Luke S.; Phillips, Joe; Farrell, George] Crewe Alexandra Football Club, Crewe, England; [Erskine, Robert M.] UCL, London, England; [Erskine, Robert M.] Liverpool John Moores Univ, Sch Sport & Exercise Sci, Liverpool L3 3AF, England								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001475103000001	66	Article; Article		
J	Heidrich, Caroline Valente; Cardozo, Priscila; Chiviacowsky, Suzete								Multiple Gender Stereotype Threats in Motor Performance and Learning								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				96	4			714	722		10.1080/02701367.2025.2492183			OCT 2 2025	2025	Purpose: Stereotype threat occurs when individuals from stereotyped groups fear confirming a negative stereotype, which undermines performance and learning. This study compared the effects of multiple gender stereotype threats (ST) on motor performance and learning of a soccer dribbling task. Method: One hundred women, with low domain identification (mean age = 27.1 years, SD = 7.0), twenty per group, were randomly assigned to four ST groups, considering the target (self or group) and the source (ingroup or outgroup) of the stereotype: ST/self-outgroup, ST/self-ingroup, ST/group-outgroup, ST/group-ingroup, and a nullified-stereotype threat group (NST). After the pretest (1 trial) and before practice (15 trials), the NST group was informed that no gender differences existed in the task, while the ST groups were told that men perform better in dribbling. Participants in the self or group as targets conditions were respectively informed that their individual performance or the performance of women as a group would be evaluated. The outgroup as source groups were assessed by male players, and the ingroup as source groups by female players. Retention and transfer (adding a cone) tests (5 trials each) were conducted next day. Perceived self-efficacy and stereotype endorsement were also examined. Results: The NST group outperformed the ST groups at all phases of the experiment, with no differences between the ST conditions. Also, the participants endorsed the negative stereotype, and self-efficacy was lower in the self/in and group/out groups. Conclusion: The multiple gender stereotype threats equally impair motor performance and learning among women with low domain identification.		[Heidrich, Caroline Valente; Cardozo, Priscila; Chiviacowsky, Suzete] Univ Fed Pelotas, Escola Super Educ Fis, Rua Luis Camoes 625, BR-96055630 Pelotas, Brazil; [Chiviacowsky, Suzete] Univ Fed Pelotas, Escola Super Educ Fis, Rua Luis Camoes 625, BR-96055630 Pelotas, Brazil								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001474179200001	54	Article; Article		
J	Gilson, Laurens; Martins, Ricardo; Bjorndal, Christian Thue; Rudd, James; Gjesdal, Siv; Beuckels, Maxime; Randers, Morten Bredsgaard; Seabra, Andre; Julin, Mikko; Kokstejn, Jakub; Musalek, Martin; Behan, Stephen; Macnamara, Aine; Sweeney, Liam; Crotti, Matteo; Lovecchio, Nicola; Bardid, Farid; Weldon, Anthony; Lenoir, Matthieu; Duncan, Michael								Fundamental movement skills in grassroots soccer: A comparative study of coaches' perceptions and practices in 9 European countries								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	5			1814	1827		10.1177/17479541251336673			OCT 2025	2025	Fundamental Movement Skills (FMS) are proven to be beneficial for development across sports domains, including soccer. Grassroots soccer provides a substantial platform to promote and develop FMS. However, coaches often have limited knowledge about FMS. Therefore, this study aimed to explore the perceptions and practices of FMS among grassroots soccer coaches across nine European countries and various coaching profiles. This study surveyed 1055 grassroots coaches from 9 countries based on prior studies to understand their perceptions and practices regarding FMS. Firstly, 14 questions were divided into three components with a Principal Component Analysis to enable clearer analysis: 'Coaching Effectiveness,' 'Influencing Factors,' and 'Importance of FMS.' The second phase involved comparing countries and coaching profiles to see how perceptions and practices varied by coaches' expertise, experience, and the age group they coach. Kruskal-Wallis group comparisons revealed varied awareness and understanding of FMS among grassroots coaches in nine European countries (p < 0.001). Post-hoc results showed that perceptions and practices were influenced more by coaching experience (p < 0.01) and the age group coached (p < 0.01) rather than qualifications. Coaches with over 10 years of experience and those working in the fundamental phase (U7-U12) recognized the benefits of FMS to a greater extent. While FMS awareness exists, deep understanding and practical implementation remain challenging. Differences between countries suggest a unified approach to FMS in coach education is missing. Strengthening FMS education will ensure that grassroots coaches are better equipped to develop young players, ultimately contributing to more effective long-term player development.		[Gilson, Laurens; Beuckels, Maxime; Lenoir, Matthieu] Univ Ghent, Dept Movement Sci, Watersportlaan 2, B-9000 Ghent, Belgium; [Martins, Ricardo; Duncan, Michael] Coventry Univ, Ctr Sport Exercise & Life Sci, Coventry, England; [Bjorndal, Christian Thue; Rudd, James; Gjesdal, Siv] Norwegian Sch Sport Sci, Dept Coaching & Psychol, Oslo, Norway; [Randers, Morten Bredsgaard] Univ Southern Denmark, Dept Sports Sci & Clin Biomech, SDU Sport & Hlth Sci Cluster, Odense, Denmark; [Seabra, Andre] Portuguese Football Federat, Portugal Football Sch, FPF, Oeiras, Portugal; [Julin, Mikko] Laurea Univ Appl Sci, Res Dev & Innovat RDI Unit, Espoo, Finland; [Kokstejn, Jakub; Musalek, Martin] Charles Univ Prague, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Prague, Czech Republic; [Behan, Stephen; Macnamara, Aine] Dublin City Univ, Fac Sci & Hlth, Sch Hlth & Human Performance, Dublin, Ireland; [Sweeney, Liam] Maynooth Univ, Fac Sci & Engn, Dept Sport Sci & Nutr, Kildare, Ireland; [Crotti, Matteo; Lovecchio, Nicola] Univ Bergamo, Dept Human & Social Sci, Bergamo, Italy; [Bardid, Farid] Univ Strathclyde, Strathclyde Inst Educ, Glasgow, Scotland; [Weldon, Anthony] Birmingham City Univ, Ctr Life & Sport Sci, Birmingham, England; [Weldon, Anthony] Aston Villa Fdn, Aston Villa Football Club, Birmingham, England; [Gilson, Laurens] Univ Ghent, Dept Movement Sci, Watersportlaan 2, B-9000 Ghent, Belgium								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001476423000001	51	Article; Article		
J	Fields, Jennifer B.; Hahn, Joseph; Jagim, Andrew R.; King, Erica L.; Allen, Leah; Horlock, Conor; Jones, Margaret T.								Relationships between smart ring-measured sleep variables and next-day basketball game performance: A case series								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	4			1726	1730		10.1177/17479541251334461			AUG 2025	2025	Sleep is critical to athlete health and sport performance. Purpose: To evaluate the relationship between objective sleep data and next-day basketball game performance. Methods: Collegiate men basketball athletes (n = 4) wore smart ring sleep trackers the night before games (n = 22). Sleep variables included hours of total sleep (TS), rapid eye movement sleep duration (RM), deep sleep duration (DS), and heart rate variability (HRV). Game performance was evaluated using field goal percentage (FG%) and player efficiency (EFF). Results: TS, RM, DS, and HRV demonstrated very weak relationships with FG% (p > 0.05) and EFF (p > 0.05). Individual player analysis revealed one athlete exhibited strong to moderate correlations for TS-EFF (r = 0.67), RS-EFF (r = 0.41), TS-FG% (r = 0.51), and RM-FG% (r = 0.67) (p < 0.05). Sleep metrics had no effect on FG% (R2 = 0.025) and EFF (R2 = 0.053) (p > 0.05). Conclusions: Results suggest a lack of group-level associations between smart ring-measured sleep variables and next-day game performance. This highlights the need for individualized sleep monitoring rather than relying solely on objective metrics.		[Fields, Jennifer B.; Allen, Leah; Horlock, Conor] Univ Connecticut, Dept Nutr Sci, Storrs, CT 06269 USA; [Fields, Jennifer B.; Hahn, Joseph; Jagim, Andrew R.; King, Erica L.; Jones, Margaret T.] George Mason Univ, Frank Pettrone Ctr Sports Performance, Patriot Performance Lab, Fairfax, VA USA; [Jagim, Andrew R.] Mayo Clin Hlth Syst, Sports Med Dept, La Crosse, WI USA; [King, Erica L.] George Mason Univ, Dept Bioengn, Fairfax, VA USA; [Jones, Margaret T.] George Mason Univ, Sport Recreat & Tourism Management, Fairfax, VA USA; [Fields, Jennifer B.] Univ Connecticut, Dept Nutr Sci, Storrs, CT 06269 USA								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001473833600001	22	Article; Article		
J	Fernandez, Jordi; Borrallo, Alex; Vilanova, Anna; Balague, Natalia								Methodological approaches of Spanish professional football academies								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	5			2020	2030		10.1177/17479541251334296			OCT 2025	2025	The growing importance of football methodology has led to the creation of specialized departments within professional clubs. Spanish professional football academies, popular around the world, have been pioneers in introducing holistic and complex systems approaches to training methodologies, which initially sparked some controversies and caused epistemological confusion. This study aims to identify the methodological approaches used by Spanish professional football academies, and explore their theoretical and practical coherence. Nine methodology department coordinators, representing a cross-section of the target sample, voluntarily agreed to participate in the study. They responded a semi-structured interview covering: (a) the theoretical foundations of their training methodologies, (b) the consistency between the theoretical principles and the practical applications, and (c) the interactions among specialists from different club sections and the alignment between the methodologies applied in the academy and the first team. The interviews were analyzed using reflexive thematic analysis (RTA). A qualitative content analysis revealed a dominant lack of epistemological coherence both among and within participants, a disconnect between their theoretical frameworks and practical applications, and an inexistent or insufficient dialogue among experts and sections within the same club, along with a lack of alignment between the methodologies applied in the academy and the first team. These inconsistencies and lack of coordination may hinder both players performance and health. In conclusion, coaches' education in complex systems science is proposed to clarify epistemological inconsistencies, empower them to create and contextualize training methodologies, bridge the gap between theory and practice, and enhance collaboration with other professionals.		[Fernandez, Jordi] Univ Limerick, Limerick, Ireland; [Fernandez, Jordi] Venezia FC, Venice, Italy; [Borrallo, Alex; Balague, Natalia] Univ Barcelona UB, Inst Nacl Educ Fis Catalunya INEFC, Complex Syst Sport Res Grp, Barcelona, Spain; [Vilanova, Anna] Univ Barcelona UB, Inst Nacl Educ Fis Catalunya INEFC, Grup Invest Social & Educ Activitat Fis & Esport G, Barcelona, Spain; [Balague, Natalia] Univ Barcelona, Hlth & Appl Sci Dept, Complex Syst Sport Res Grp, INEFC Barcelona, Ave Estadi 12-22, Barcelona 08038, Spain								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001473420500001	59	Article; Article		
J	Kite, Rich J.; Parris, Zac								Athletes' transitions from part-time to full-time performance programmes: Athletes' and coaches' perceptions								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	4			1409	1419		10.1177/17479541251334740			AUG 2025	2025	As an athlete develops through their respective talent pathway, those who are continually retained will eventually reach a critical transition point, whereby successful selection will commonly result in a part-time to full-time performance programme transition. Though such offerings remain sport-dependent, these transitions are typically accompanied by substantial increases in training demands, which further add to the risk of injury and overreaching. Given the significance of such junctures, investigating the preparedness of athletes to endure these changes warrants further research. Semi-structured interviews were undertaken to examine the experiences of those involved in such pathway transitions, speaking with four national performance pathway athletes who had recently moved from part-time to full-time programmes and five national performance pathway coaches. Interview responses were analysed deductively, using the holistic athletic career model and reflexive thematic analysis. The findings indicated that (un)successful athlete transitions were dependent on physical factors (load management and recovery provisions), psychosocial factors (dealing with adversity, social pressures, and external influence) and access to resources (support services and resource barriers). Practical implications included the need for key stakeholders to i) ensure a moderation of load is applied for transitioning athletes, ii) provide support and guidance to equip the athletes to deal with psychosocial strain, and iii) educate athletes on the benefits of resources to aid recovery provisions and fatigue management. These insights are valuable, as they can help inform coaches, key stakeholders, and National Governing Bodies to support athletes better in the future.		[Kite, Rich J.] Bournemouth Univ, Dept Rehabil & Sport Sci, Bournemouth, England; [Parris, Zac] Loughborough Coll, Higher Educ Sport, Loughborough, England; [Kite, Rich J.] Bournemouth Univ, Dept Rehabil & Sport Sci, Bournemouth, England								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001473431100001	74	Article; Article		
J	Nugent, F.; De Toledo, Z.; Myers, E.; Kearney, P. E.								What do elite rowing coxswains say during races?								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	5			2109	2117		10.1177/17479541251335448			OCT 2025	2025	Coxing is a highly specialised skillset in the sport of rowing which has received limited research to date. The aim of this study was to explore what elite coxswains say during rowing races. The study involved a thematic analysis of coxswain recordings that were publicly available on YouTube. Sixteen elite coxswain recordings were found and eight met the inclusion criteria. Video recordings were from the following competitions: one from the World Senior Championships (2011), one from the World Under-23 Championships (2021), one from a World Cup (2022), two from Henley Royal Regatta semi-finals (2015 and 2022) and three from Henley finals (2014, 2017 and 2022). Coxswains made an average of 32 calls per minute. Out of the coxes' total calls, 94% were directed towards the crew however on occasion coxes directed calls to individual rowers or specific sections of the boat (e.g., bow side). The content of the elite coxswains' calls was classified under three themes: technical calls (40.4% of total calls), motivational calls (38.6%) and tactical calls (21%). In addition, four themes were developed in relation to how coxes delivered the calls: the direction, timing and tone of calls, as well as the use of chiding. This exploratory study provides a first step towards gaining a richer and broader understanding of what elite coxswains say during races and may stimulate reflection among coxswains and rowing coaches. The findings provide a basis for evaluating coxswain education and future research.		[Nugent, F.; Myers, E.; Kearney, P. E.] Univ Limerick, Fac Educ & Hlth Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Limerick, Ireland; [Nugent, F.; Kearney, P. E.] Univ Limerick, Sport & Human Performance Res Ctr, Limerick, Ireland; [De Toledo, Z.] Oxford Univ Hosp NHS Trust, Oxford, England; [Nugent, F.] Univ Limerick, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Off P1026, Limerick, Ireland								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001473419700001	52	Article; Article		
J	Mason, Billy R. J.; Lea, Rhodes; Mckune, Andrew J.; Pyne, David B.; Ball, Nick B.								Comparison of stable load, unstable load and variable resistance training interventions								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	4			1661	1672		10.1177/17479541251333955			AUG 2025	2025	Two alternate loading strategies that are increasingly prevalent within athletic, rehabilitation and general settings are unstable load and variable resistance training. However, the relative effectiveness of these strategies compared with conventional stable load training is unclear. We compared three different 4-week resistance training interventions using unstable loads, variable resistance, or traditional stable loads (i.e., barbells, dumbbells), on measures of strength, power, endurance and stability, as well as acceleration and change of direction performance. Twenty-seven recreationally trained males (age 23.4 +/- 2.9 years; resistance training experience 4.1 +/- 2.8 years, mean +/- SD) participated in this study. A single leg quiet stand; single leg land-and-hold; countermovement jump; 10-metre sprint; modified 5-0-5 change of direction test; the athletic shoulder test; isometric mid-thigh pull; 30 degrees isometric hamstring test; and the 60 degrees trunk flexion test were measured before and after each of the three interventions. There were significant improvements in shoulder strength for all three groups, and improvements in other measures: isometric hamstring strength (stable, variable training) stability (stable and unstable), core endurance (unstable, variable), 10 m sprint (unstable) but not in countermovement jumping, or change of direction running. It appears that training with an unstable load can yield substantial improvements in core endurance, whereas the use of variable resistance loads showed improvements in isometric shoulder strength across a range of positions. All three forms of resistance training loads (stable, unstable, variable) offer athletes and coaches the opportunity to target discrete strength, power, endurance and stability qualities.		[Mason, Billy R. J.; Lea, Rhodes; Mckune, Andrew J.; Pyne, David B.; Ball, Nick B.] Univ Canberra, Res Inst Sport & Exercise, Canberra, ACT, Australia; [Mckune, Andrew J.] Univ KwaZulu Natal, Sch Hlth Sci Biokinet Exercise & Leisure Sci, Durban, South Africa; [Mason, Billy R. J.] Univ Canberra, Res Inst Sport & Exercise, Canberra, ACT, Australia								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001472746200001	43	Article; Article		
J	Andreu-Caravaca, Luis; Ramos-Campo, Domingo J.; Moncada-Jimenez, Jose; Rubio-Arias, Jacobo A.								Role of Maximum and Explosive Strength in the Relationship Between the Expanded Disability Status Scale (EDSS) and Functional Capacity in People with Multiple Sclerosis: A Mediation Analysis								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				96	4			706	713		10.1080/02701367.2025.2490165			OCT 2 2025	2025	The relationship between functional capacity and disability status in individuals with Multiple Sclerosis (MS) is well established. However, to date, the interference of lower limb strength in this classic correlation has not been studied. Therefore, this study aimed to investigate the mediating role of muscle lower limb strength variables, including maximum strength (MVIC) and explosive strength (RFD), in the relationship between the disability status, measured by Expanded Disability Status Scale (EDSS), and functional test outcomes in a MS sample. A total of 49 patients performed 4 functional tests: timed up-and-go test (TUG), sit-to-stand (STS), 10-meter walk test (10MWT), and 6-minute walk test (6MWT), as well as the measurement of MVIC and RFD. A statistical mediation analysis was conducted to examine the influence of maximum and explosive strength on the relationship between EDSS and functional capacity. Regarding MVIC, the effect of EDSS on the 6MWT (indirect effect = 48%, p = .013), 10MWT (indirect effect = 18.1%, p = .015) and TUG test (indirect effect = 27.2%, p = .003) decreased. Regarding RFD late (0-200), the effect of EDSS on the 6MWT (indirect effect = 34.8% p = .0048), 10MWT (indirect effect = 18.0%, p = .021) and TUG test (indirect effect = 25.0%, p = .014) decreased. MVIC and RFD late variables play a significant role and influence the relationship between the EDSS and functional capacity.		[Andreu-Caravaca, Luis] UCAM Univ Catolica Murcia, Murcia, Spain; [Ramos-Campo, Domingo J.] Univ Politecn Madrid, Madrid, Spain; [Moncada-Jimenez, Jose] Univ Costa Rica, San Jose, Costa Rica; [Rubio-Arias, Jacobo A.] Univ Almeria, Almeria, Spain; [Andreu-Caravaca, Luis] UCAM Univ Catolica Murcia, Fac Deporte, Campus Jeronimos s-n, Murcia 30107, Spain; [Andreu-Caravaca, Luis] UCAM Univ Catolica Murcia, Fac Hlth Sci, Physiol Dept, Campus Jeronimos s-n, Murcia 30107, Spain								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001472343000001	34	Article; Article		
J	Pennartz, Kase J.; Perlet, Michael R.; Batman, Genevieve B.; Ransom, Kyndall V.; Keller, Joshua L.								Skeletal Muscle Resaturation Relates to Aerobic Fitness in Adults Participating in Strength and Aerobic Exercises								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				96	4			668	676		10.1080/02701367.2025.2482108			OCT 2 2025	2025	Purpose: This study examined differences in metrics of skeletal muscle re-saturation between strength and aerobically oriented individuals and potential relations between re-saturation and aerobic fitness. Methods: Forty-nine healthy young adult men and women completed body composition analysis, a maximal lower-body strength assessment, a maximal aerobic fitness (<(V)ovev dot> O-2 (max)) test, and a near-infrared spectroscopy vascular occlusion test (NIRS+VOT). Skeletal muscle tissue oxygenation (StO(2)), oxygenated hemoglobin (O(2)Hb), and deoxygenated (HHb) hemoglobin were collected from a NIRS device attached to the vastus lateralis. Re-saturation measures (e.g. upslope, re-saturation max, and hypersaturation area under the curve (AUC)) were derived from the reperfusion phase of the NIRS+VOT. Results: All O(2)Hb and StO(2) re-saturation metrics, particularly upslope (r = 0.622 and r = -.613, respectively), were significantly (p < .05) related to (<(V)ovev dot> O-2 (max). In the strength group, O(2)Hb and HHb upslope (r = 0.584; p < .001; r = -.550; p = .001, respectively) and re-saturation max (r = 0.372; p = .036; r = .562, p < .001, respectively) were significantly related to <(V)ovev dot> O-2 (max). For the aerobic group, O(2)Hb upslope (r = .486; p = .048), re-saturation max (r = 0.535; p = .027), and hypersaturation AUC (r = 0.564; p = .018) were significantly related to <(V)ovev dot> O-2 (max). The aerobic group had significantly (p = .011; BF10 = 8.043) greater O(2)Hb upslope (1.6 +/- .789 vs. 1.1 +/- .474 A.U.s(-1)) and (p = .027; BF10 = 2.929) hypersaturation AUC (1158.3 +/- 545.02 vs. 860.4 +/- 365.35 A.U.s(-1)) than the strength group. Conclusion: Upslope was the most related to (<(V)ovev dot> O-2 (max) in strength and aerobically oriented adults. Interestingly, O(2)Hb re-saturation max may not be sensitive to differences between routine strength and aerobic exercise and may reflect shared underlying physiological mechanisms of the predominant fitness orientation.		[Pennartz, Kase J.; Perlet, Michael R.; Keller, Joshua L.] Univ North Texas, Dept Kinesiol Hlth Promot & Recreat, Appl Physiol Lab, 1921 Chestnut St,PEB 210-G, Denton, TX 76201 USA; [Batman, Genevieve B.; Ransom, Kyndall V.] Univ S Alabama, Mobile, AL 36688 USA; [Keller, Joshua L.] Univ North Texas, Dept Kinesiol Hlth Promot & Recreat, Appl Physiol Lab, 1921 Chestnut St,PEB 210-G, Denton, TX 76201 USA								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001472012800001	45	Article; Article		
J	Anker-Petersen, Charlotte; Clausen, Mikkel Bek; Juul-Kristensen, Birgit; Holmich, Per; Thorborg, Kristian								Sports-related pain prevalence in TeamGym during normal and reduced training periods: A survey of 579 Danish gymnasts								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				73				144	151		10.1016/j.ptsp.2025.04.001			MAY 2025	2025	Objectives: To describe the pain prevalence and its regional body distribution in TeamGym gymnasts, ondly, to compare pain prevalence during a period with normal training load with a period with reduced load. Design: Cross-sectional study. Setting: Data from (1) a period with normal training load (Aug-Dec 2020), and (2) a period with reduced load (COVID-19 restrictions, Jan-June 2021) were included. Participants: TeamGym gymnasts aged 10-30 years. Main outcome measures: Self-reported history of pain/discomfort. Results: In total, 65 % of the invited gymnasts completed the survey at both time points, which included gymnasts. The pain prevalence due to gymnastics was 80 % with the most prevalent pain regions being % [95 %CI 18.1; 21.8]), wrist (17 % [95 %CI 15.5; 19.0]) and foot (16 % [95 %CI 14.4; 17.8]). Gradual onset was described in 42 % of all cases. During the reduced training period, the number of painful decreased by 26 %, but regional body pain distribution remained unchanged. Conclusions: Four of five gymnasts experienced pain/discomfort during a normal five-month training Knee, wrist and foot were the most common painful regions with gradual pain onset as the most reported. Reduced training load decreased the absolute pain prevalence, but regional body distribution unaffected.		[Anker-Petersen, Charlotte; Holmich, Per; Thorborg, Kristian] Copenhagen Univ Hosp, Amager Hvidovre Hosp, Sports Orthoped Res Ctr Copenhagen, Dept Orthoped Surg, Copenhagen, Denmark; [Clausen, Mikkel Bek] Univ Coll Copenhagen, Fac Hlth, Dept Midwifery Physiotherapy Occupat Therapy & Psy, Copenhagen, Denmark; [Juul-Kristensen, Birgit] Univ Southern Denmark, Dept Sports Sci & Clin Biomech, Res Unit Musculoskeletal Funct & Physiotherapy, Odense, Denmark; [Anker-Petersen, Charlotte] Copenhagen Univ Hosp, Sports Orthoped Res Ctr Copenhagen SORC C, Amager Hvidovre Kettegaard 30, DK-2650 Hvidovre, Denmark								1							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001475362400001	37	Article; Article		
J	Hamaguchi, Kazuto; Liu, Lingjun; Shiokawa, Matsuhisa; Deguchi, Tatsuya								A biomechanical study of judo <i>uchimata</i>: a comparison of <i>judokas</i> with different skill levels								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	9			2540	2555		10.1080/14763141.2025.2474515			SEP 2 2025	2025	This study aimed to elucidate the biomechanical factors contributing to effective uchimata throwing by comparing highly skilled and less skilled judokas. Ten highly skilled and 10 less skilled judokas performed uchimata, with movement data recorded using a Mac3D motion analysis system (250 hz). The peak values of the body centre of mass velocity in the anterior-posterior and vertical directions were significantly greater in highly skilled judokas compared to their less skilled counterparts. Furthermore, the peak angular velocity of the hips, shoulders and arms, as well as the peak angular momentum of the technique recipient (uke), were significantly greater in highly skilled judokas than in less skilled ones. This suggests that judokas with advanced skills may execute throws more efficiently during throwing movements. Furthermore, a larger forward propulsion during the turning phase may be crucial in generating angular velocity in the hips, shoulders and arms during the throwing phase. Judo coaches should be aware of the accelerated body rotation during throwing that can be achieved by increasing the whole-body forward velocity. This insight can guide in enhancing the training protocol design when teaching uchimata and assist judokas in mastering the technique more efficiently.		[Hamaguchi, Kazuto; Deguchi, Tatsuya] Hiroshima Univ, Grad Sch Humanities & Social Sci, Higashihiroshima, Japan; [Liu, Lingjun] Shanghai Antidoping Agcy, Shanghai Res Inst Sports Sci, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Shiokawa, Matsuhisa] Hiroshima Int Univ, Fac Hlth & Sports Sci, Higashihiroshima, Japan; [Deguchi, Tatsuya] Hiroshima Univ, Grad Sch Humanities & Social Sci, Higashihiroshima, Japan								2							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001467045600001	25	Article; Article		
J	Liu, Xuan; Kim, Seungmo; Lee, Soonhwan								The impacts of organizational justice on collegiate coaches' attitudinal outcomes: Mediating effect of trust								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	3			873	887		10.1177/17479541251333921			JUN 2025	2025	The main purpose of this study was to examine the mediating effects of trust in the relationships between organizational justice (i.e., distributive justice, procedural justice, and interactional justice) and attitudinal outcomes (i.e., career commitment and job satisfaction) among Chinese collegiate coaches. A total of 208 Chinese collegiate coaches across 8 sports were recruited in 73 universities. Data were analyzed using partial least square structural equation modelling (PLS-SEM). The results demonstrated that trust in supervisor partially mediated the relationship between interactional justice and job satisfaction (beta = 0.188, p < .05). Moreover, trust in organization fully mediated the relationship between interactional justice and career commitment (beta = 0.211, p < .05). This study demonstrates the importance of interactional justice in improving collegiate coaches' job satisfaction and career commitment as well as the mediating role of trust in supervisor in the relationship between interactional justice and job satisfaction and the mediating role of trust in organization in the relationship between interactional justice and career commitment. The findings offer suggestions to college athletics departments that may improve collegiate coaches' work attitudes by fostering a just and trustworthy work environment.		[Liu, Xuan; Kim, Seungmo] Hong Kong Baptist Univ, Dept Sports & Hlth Sci, Kowloon Tong, AAB 932,Acad & Adm Bldg, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [Lee, Soonhwan] Indiana Univ Indianapolis, Dept Tourism Event & Sport Management, Indianapolis, IN USA; [Kim, Seungmo] Hong Kong Baptist Univ, Dept Sports & Hlth Sci, Kowloon Tong, AAB 932,Acad & Adm Bldg, Hong Kong, Peoples R China								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001468619600001	110	Article; Article		
J	Beaumont, Fabien; Polidori, Guillaume								Aerodynamic challenges in running: Understanding headwind and tailwind effects								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	3			1259	1267		10.1177/17479541251333944			JUN 2025	2025	The primary objective of this study was to assess how wind affects metabolic cost of running. A numerical method was employed to investigate aerodynamic forces acting on a runner at three different running speeds (10, 15, and 20 km/h) while experiencing five headwind and tailwind speeds (ranging from 0 to 30 km/h). Additionally, a mathematical model was used to estimate aerodynamic and metabolic power based on both runner and wind speeds. Insights from the numerical investigation highlighted how wind conditions, including speed and direction, alter the turbulent wake behind the runner, ultimately affecting metabolic power requirements. While a 30 km/h tailwind leads to a modest 9% reduction in energy expenditure, a headwind of the same speed results in a substantial 37% increase. In practical terms, running at 13.7 km/h against a 20 km/h headwind imposes the same metabolic demand as running at 19.4 km/h with a 20 km/h tailwind. Furthermore, considering an out and back course, temporary tailwind advantages do not sufficiently offset headwind effects. Thus, this study underscores the critical need for runners to consider weather conditions, especially wind, to effectively manage energy expenditure and optimize performance in competitions or training sessions.		[Beaumont, Fabien; Polidori, Guillaume] Univ Reims, Inst Thermal Mech & Mat Engn ITheMM, Moulin Housse, F-51687 Reims 2, France; [Beaumont, Fabien] Univ Reims, Inst Thermal Mech & Mat Engn ITheMM, Moulin Housse, F-51687 Reims 2, France								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001467810700001	27	Article; Article		
J	Kim, Tae-Yoon; Lee, Ji-Hang; Cho, Heetae; Bailey, Andrew								The role of self-emotion appraisal and coping strategies in enhancing well-being and exercise commitment among elite athletes: A cognitive-motivational-relational approach								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	3			947	959		10.1177/17479541251333930			JUN 2025	2025	This study examined the relationships among athletes' self-emotion appraisal, coping, well-being, and intention to continue exercise based on cognitive-motivational-relational theory. Specifically, we explored the mediating role of problem- and emotion-focused coping in the relationship between self-emotional appraisal and behavioral outcomes. A total of 244 responses were collected from elite athletes affiliated with the Korean Sports Association. Results revealed that self-emotion appraisal positively affected problem- and emotion-focused coping, which, in turn, enhanced athletes' well-being and intention to continue exercise. These findings suggest full mediation, highlighting the importance of emotional intelligence and adaptive coping strategies for fostering sustained athletic engagement and psychological flourishing. This study implies that interventions aimed at enhancing athletes' emotional appraisal and coping skills could play a critical role in optimizing athletes' commitment to sport and their well-being.		[Kim, Tae-Yoon; Lee, Ji-Hang; Cho, Heetae] Sungkyunkwan Univ, Dept Sport Sci, Suwon, Gyeonggi Do, South Korea; [Bailey, Andrew] Univ Tennessee, Chattanooga, TN USA; [Cho, Heetae] Sungkyunkwan Univ, Dept Sport Sci, Suwon, Gyeonggi Do, South Korea								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001467841100001	102	Article; Article		
J	Ordinana-Perez, Manuel; Zabala, Mikel; Blasco-Lafarga, Cristina								The influence of the environment on the calculation of drag area in cycling: Contrasting results between indoor and outdoor field tests								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	4			1626	1633		10.1177/17479541251333954			AUG 2025	2025	This study analyzes two methods of calculating drag area (C(D)A) in cycling, Notio and Martin, in indoor and outdoor environments, to determine if C(D)A is consistent regardless of the testing environment. In addition, we assess the practical utility of both methods in both environments for selecting the most aerodynamic equipment. Twelve trained cyclists rode on an indoor cycling track and an outdoor road with four different settings combining different equipment. Each cyclist performed 4 attempts with each setting, completing a total of 32 segments of 1500 m, 16 segments in each environment. We calculated C(D)A using both Notio and Martin methods. We then evaluated the repeatability and reliability of each method in both environments. C(D)A comparison revealed significant differences between indoor and outdoor environments for Martin (MD = 0.006 m(2); SD = 0.009; p < 0.001), but not for Notio (MD = 0.001 m(2); SD = 0.005; p = 0.569), with indoor C(D)A being consistently higher. Standard error of measurement (SEM) was similar across environments: Notio (+/- 0.004 m(2) indoor, +/- 0.003 m(2) outdoor), and Martin (+/- 0.005 m(2) indoor, +/- 0.006 m(2) outdoor). Notably, the 95% confidence interval of the SEM (SEM95), exceeded the C(D)A changes observed in all settings relative to the baseline, for both methods and in both environments. Although Notio, unlike Martin, calculates C(D)A consistently regardless environment, neither method demonstrated sufficient sensitivity to detect changes in C(D)A in either environment, limiting their practical utility for selecting the most aerodynamic equipment.		[Ordinana-Perez, Manuel; Blasco-Lafarga, Cristina] Univ Valencia, Fac Phys Act & Sport Sci, Phys Educ & Sport Dept, Valencia, Spain; [Zabala, Mikel] Univ Granada, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Granada, Spain; [Ordinana-Perez, Manuel] Univ Valencia, Fac Ciencias Actividad Fis & Deporte, Carrer Gasco Oliag 3, Valencia 46010, Spain								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001468599000001	27	Article; Article		
J	Ge, Qi; Humphreys, Brad R.; Eisert, Alexander								Vertical Integration and Competitive Balance in Professional Sports: Evidence From Minor League Baseball								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				26	6			689	722		10.1177/15270025251328246			AUG 2025	2025	Major League Baseball (MLB) teams regularly call up players from their Minor League Baseball (MiLB) affiliates to fulfill roster needs. This paper utilizes a manually collected panel of player call-ups between 1946 and 2019 and studies their impact on competitive balance in the minor leagues. Our results indicate an overall positive relationship between call-ups and competitive balance in MiLB, with the pro-competitive effect primarily driven by AA leagues and not AAA leagues. We also find suggestive evidence that the effect is likely explained by the promotion of MiLB players to MLB rather than the demotion of MLB players to MiLB. Our findings provide important policy implications regarding vertical relationships and human capital development in professional sports.		[Ge, Qi] Vassar Coll, Dept Econ, 124 Raymond Ave, Poughkeepsie, NY 12604 USA; [Humphreys, Brad R.] West Virginia Univ, John Chambers Coll Business & Econ, Dept Econ, Morgantown, WV USA; [Eisert, Alexander] Vassar Coll, Poughkeepsie, NY USA; [Ge, Qi] Vassar Coll, Dept Econ, 124 Raymond Ave, Poughkeepsie, NY 12604 USA								2							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001467848800001	29	Article; Article		
J	Lev, Assaf; Maymon, Yaniv Kanat; Ben Zion, Tomer; Tenenbaum, Gershon								Strategic impact: Technical fouls and momentum shifts in basketball games - unveiling insights across quarters of two decades of NBA data								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	4			1598	1607		10.1177/17479541251333926			AUG 2025	2025	Spanning two decades (2000-2021), this study examines the frequency and timing of technical fouls (TFs) committed by NBA coaches, and their relationship with momentum shifts throughout the quarters of a basketball game. A big data of 4,196TFs calls of NBA coaches was used to elucidate TFs association with momentum shifts, considering location, scoring position, and quarter. Logistic regression revealed higher momentum shift and win probabilities when TFs were called while the team was ahead (70% vs. 22%) and in home games (44% vs. 22%). At home, TFs calls during trailing position decreased win chances from 41% (Q1) to 10% (Q4), but when committed in a winning position, the win chances increased from 62% (Q1) to 84% (Q4). Lower TFs effects were observed in away games. Specifically, TFs during trailing position reduced win chances from 33% (Q1) to 6% (Q4), while in advantage TFs increased win chances from 44% (Q1) to 79% (Q4). The differences evident in momentum shifts due to environmental and specific situational factors are attributed to changes in the interaction among the team's motivational climate, collective efficacy, and the spectators' drive.		[Lev, Assaf] Ono Acad Coll, Dept Sports Therapy, Kiryat Ono, Israel; [Maymon, Yaniv Kanat; Ben Zion, Tomer; Tenenbaum, Gershon] Reichman Univ, B Ivcher Sch Psychol, Herzliyya, Israel; [Tenenbaum, Gershon] Ariel Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Physiotherapy, Ariel, Israel; [Lev, Assaf] Ono Acad Coll, Fac Hlth Profess, Dept Sports Therapy, Kiryat Ono, Israel								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001467833900001	37	Article; Article		
J	Dias, Mateus S.; Freitas, Sandra M. S. F.; de Freitas, Paulo B.								Multi-Joint Synergy in Foot Height Stabilization Across Different Running Speeds: An Uncontrolled Manifold Analysis								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				96	4			650	659		10.1080/02701367.2025.2480143			OCT 2 2025	2025	The uncontrolled manifold (UCM) framework was employed to investigate the presence of a multi-joint synergy stabilizing foot height during the swing phase of treadmill running and its potential dependence on running speed. Experienced runners (N = 28; aged 22-51) ran on an instrumented treadmill set at three different speeds: 2.5, 3.5, and 4.5 m/s. Kinematic data were utilized to calculate UCM outcomes: variances in the joint space that had no effect (VUCM) and those that influenced (VORT) foot height, and the synergy index (Delta VZ, the normalized difference between VUCM and VORT). They were computed for each normalized frame (1-100%) of the swing phase and averaged in 10% intervals. Delta VZ was greater than zero and varied across the swing phase, being lowest at 51-60% and highest at 81-100%. Delta VZ was the lowest at the slowest speed in the second half of the swing phase, because of a low VUCM. The findings indicate that the CNS organizes a multi-joint synergy to stabilize foot height, with the strongest synergy at the end of the swing phase to ensure safe foot placement and landing. Faster running speeds enhance this synergy, allowing greater adaptability to perturbations, while slower speeds lead to a more cautious approach, reducing overall variance.		[Dias, Mateus S.; de Freitas, Paulo B.] Univ Cruzeiro Sul, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Freitas, Sandra M. S. F.] Univ Cidade Sao Paulo UNICID, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [de Freitas, Paulo B.] Univ Cruzeiro Sul, Lab Analise Movimento LAM, Inst Ciencias Atividade Fis & Esporte ICAFE, Rua Galvao Bueno,868,Liberdade, BR-01506000 Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001463227700001	40	Article; Article		
J	Montull, Lluc; Matas, Sergi; Canton, Albert; Vives, Esther; Sole, Aleix; Borrallo, Alex; Ensenyat, Assumpta								Novel possibilities of acceleration time series for performance and acute fatigue assessment in uphill trail running								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	9			2610	2630		10.1080/14763141.2025.2486088			SEP 2 2025	2025	The potential for assessing performance and acute fatigue in uphill trail running (UTR) through acceleration time series remains underexplored. For this purpose, time-variability of body acceleration and covariation among limb acceleration were studied in UTR. Twenty competitive and young trail runners participated in a simulation UTR test covering a distance of 4758 meters, with a total elevation gain of 575 meters and an average slope of 13.6%. Four sections with clear slope differences were identified. Detrended Fluctuation Analysis of upper back acceleration and Principal Component Analysis among wrists and ankle acceleration were performed for the whole test and for each section.The outcomes were correlated with performance and standardized effect size was used to compare sections. The main findings suggest that (a) runners with higher performance showed less persistence in body acceleration fluctuations and greater interlimb diversity, and (b) the steepest parts, particularly the final and effortful section, showed increased persistence in body acceleration and some runners lost interlimb covariation.In conclusion, time-variability and coordination analyses of acceleration time series seem to be sensitive to performance and acute fatigue in UTR, which opens further possibilities for providing more integrative, dynamic, and practical assessment tools.		[Montull, Lluc; Matas, Sergi; Canton, Albert; Vives, Esther; Sole, Aleix; Borrallo, Alex; Ensenyat, Assumpta] Natl Inst Phys Educ Catalonia INEFC, Hlth & Appl Sci, Catalonia, Spain; [Montull, Lluc; Canton, Albert; Ensenyat, Assumpta] INEFC, Complex Syst Sport Res Grp, Catalonia, Spain; [Matas, Sergi] Univ Lleida UdL, Human Movement Res Grp, Lleida, Spain; [Matas, Sergi] Natl Inst Phys Educ Catalonia INEFC, Hlth & Appl Sci, Catalonia, Spain; [Matas, Sergi] Univ Lleida UdL, Human Movement Res Grp, Lleida, Spain								2							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001463231100001	81	Article; Article		
J	Tohoff, Lukas; Mechtel, Mario								Fading Shooting Stars-The Relative Age Effect, Ability, and Foregone Market Values in German Elite Youth Soccer								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				26	5			499	542		10.1177/15270025251320958			JUN 2025	2025	This article analyzes the relative age effect (RAE) in German elite youth soccer. We hypothesize that, to get selected by elite youth academies, players with relative age disadvantages must be relatively more talented; especially at the margin of getting selected. Using data on 2,383 former elite youth players and their later market values, we show that the RAE was substantial in German elite youth soccer between 2000 and 2020. Moreover, in the sample of former elite youth academy players, those with relative age disadvantages reach significantly higher market values. Our results indicate that relative age disadvantages of elite academy players are positively correlated with their unobserved ability; suggesting that, on average, the RAE results in a loss of talent-and market value. We find that clubs could generate 30.6 to 72.8% higher market values without the RAE.		[Tohoff, Lukas] ROCKWOOL Fdn Berlin, Berlin Sch Econ, Berlin, Germany; [Tohoff, Lukas] Humboldt Univ, Berlin, Germany; [Mechtel, Mario] Leuphana Univ Luneburg, Inst Econ, Luneburg, Germany; [Mechtel, Mario] Leuphana Univ Luneburg, Inst Econ, Luneburg, Germany								0							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001464157700001	80	Article; Article		
J	Marcotte-Chenard, Alexis; Islam, Hashim; Jackson, Garett S.; Little, Jonathan P.								Do Exercise Pattern and Intensity Influence Affective and Enjoyment Responses in Active Adults? A Secondary Analysis								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				96	4			617	626		10.1080/02701367.2025.2471880			OCT 2 2025	2025	The purpose of the present study was to compare the ratings of perceived exertion (RPE), affective (Feeling Scale), and remembered enjoyment (Physical Activity Enjoyment Scale) responses following different exercise intensities/patterns and to investigate possible associations with physiological parameters in active adults. In a randomized crossover trial, 16 active adults (29.9 +/- 3.2 years; 8 males/8 females) performed three different conditions: moderate continuous exercise (MCE) at 70% lactate threshold (LT), heavy continuous exercise (HCE) at 10% of the difference between LT and VO2 peak, and heavy interval exercise (HIE) wherein intensity matched HCE but performed as 1-minute on:off with stationary rest in between. RPE (CR10) and affect were evaluated during exercise while remembered enjoyment was assessed at the end of each exercise session. Average RPE was significantly different (p = .001; eta p2 = .744) between all three exercise modalities (MCE = 2.6 +/- 0.8, HCE = 5.1 +/- 1.0; HIE = 3.5 +/- 0.9; p <=.001). Average affect during exercise was also significantly different (p = .001; eta p2 = .427) with post hoc testing revealing lower affect for HCE compared to MCE (p = .002) and HIE (p = .008). Similar results were observed for affect nadir (lowest affect during exercise; MCE = 3.1 +/- 1.3; HCE = 1.2 +/- 1.7; HIE = 2.4 +/- 1.6; p = .001; eta p2 = .470). Remembered enjoyment was not statistically different between modalities (MCE = 98 +/- 18; HCE = 96 +/- 17; HIE = 100 +/- 16; p = .468; eta p2 = .049), but more people preferred HCE (10/16; 62.5%) compared with both HIE (4/16; 25%) and MCE (2/16; 12.5%) (p = .039): Despite the higher average RPE and lower affect during HCE, no difference was observed for remembered exercise enjoyment, and active individuals seem to prefer this exercise modality compared with HIE or MCE.		[Marcotte-Chenard, Alexis; Islam, Hashim; Jackson, Garett S.; Little, Jonathan P.] Univ British Columbia Okanagan, Sch Hlth & Exercise Sci, 1147 Res Rd, Kelowna, BC V1V 1V7, Canada; [Little, Jonathan P.] Univ British Columbia Okanagan, Sch Hlth & Exercise Sci, 1147 Res Rd, Kelowna, BC V1V 1V7, Canada								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001461315600001	38	Article; Article		
J	Babault, Nicolas; Cometti, Carole								Eccentric Cycling in the Real Life: A Case Report Exploring Riding Downhill with a Brakeless Bicycle								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				97				5	11		10.5114/jhk/193941			APR 2025	2025	This case study aimed to explore neuromuscular strategies used by a cyclist to control the speed while riding downhill a mountain with a brakeless, fixed-gear bicycle. Accelerations of the pedals and electromyographic activity of four lower limb muscles were registered to determine muscle activation during two decelerating strategies. Eccentric cycling was mostly used to control the bicycle speed with short (536 +/- 51 ms) and low-intensity contractions. Isometric pedaling cycles were more efficient for decelerations with long (1,092 +/- 281 ms) and intensive contractions. Isometric muscle activation was 122, 31, 25 and 44% greater than eccentric for vastus lateralis, biceps femoris, gastrocnemius lateralis and tibialis anterior muscle, respectively. This study suggests specific activation patterns to help the practitioner for safety rides, but that could have implications for rehabilitation purposes.		[Babault, Nicolas; Cometti, Carole] Univ Bourgogne, INSERM UMR1093 CAPS, UFR Sci Sport, Dijon, France; [Babault, Nicolas; Cometti, Carole] Univ Bourgogne, Ctr Expertise Performance, UFR Sci Sport, Dijon, France; [Babault, Nicolas] Univ Bourgogne, INSERM UMR1093 CAPS, UFR Sci Sport, Dijon, France; [Babault, Nicolas] Univ Bourgogne, Ctr Expertise Performance, UFR Sci Sport, Dijon, France								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001506187400001	13	Article; Article		
J	Imai, Satoshi; Harato, Kengo; Morishige, Yutaro; Nagura, Takeo; Matsumoto, Hideo; Hase, Kimitaka								Effects of Visual Occlusion on Lower Extremity Biomechanics during a Low-Intensity Single-Leg Landing								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				97				51	63		10.5114/jhk/190681			APR 2025	2025	Visual information is crucial for motor control during a jump-landing, allowing for anticipation of landing timing and prediction of the impact. However, the effects of visual occlusion on lower extremity biomechanics are not well understood. To investigate this, we studied the impact of visual occlusion on motor control during a low-intensity single-leg landing. Seventeen female college students participated in the controlled laboratory investigation. They performed low-intensity repetitive vertical hopping on a single leg under eyes-open (EO) and eyes-closed (EC) conditions. Main outcome measurements were taken, including jump height, ground reaction forces, joint angles, and joint moments, using a motion capture system. The significant effects of visual occlusion were as follows: 1) a decrease in the hip flexion angle at ground contact (p = 0.02), 2) an increase in Fx (medio-lateral ground reaction force), knee valgus, and internal rotation angles in the early phase within 80 ms after ground contact (p < 0.05), and 3) an increase in Fz (vertical ground reaction force) and a reduction in hip and knee flexion angles at peak Fz (p < 0.05). The amount of angular change at the ankle joint correlated with the hip and knee joints only under the EC condition (p < 0.05). These changes indicate modifications in landing strategy for safety and/or deficiencies in control for an efficient and accurate landing. In conclusion, visual information contributes to safe and accurate motor control during low-intensity landing movements.		[Imai, Satoshi] Keio Univ Hosp, Dept Rehabil, Tokyo, Japan; [Imai, Satoshi; Hase, Kimitaka] Kansai Med Univ, Dept Phys Med & Rehabil, Osaka, Japan; [Harato, Kengo; Morishige, Yutaro; Nagura, Takeo] Keio Univ, Sch Med, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Tokyo, Japan; [Matsumoto, Hideo] Japan Sports Med Fdn, Tokyo, Japan; [Imai, Satoshi] Keio Univ Hosp, Dept Rehabil, Tokyo, Japan; [Imai, Satoshi] Kansai Med Univ, Dept Phys Med & Rehabil, Osaka, Japan								6							Sport Sciences	WOS:001506187400004	44	Article; Article		
J	Moreira, Pedro Emilio Drumond; Albuquerque, Maicon Rodrigues; Fortes, Leonardo de Sousa; Praca, Gibson Moreira								How Do Cognitive and Motor Dual-Tasks during Small-Sided Games Impact the Tactical Performance of Youth Soccer Players?								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				97				249	261		10.5114/jhk/192202			APR 2025	2025	Numerous studies have investigated physical and motor performance during dual-task protocols in different sports. However, only few studies have investigated tactical performance in dual-task situations in real-world game situations, such as small-sided games (SSGs). Moreover, sport-specific literature is unclear about the effects of motor or cognitive secondary tasks and the type of the stimulus (memorization, math operations) on players' tactical performance. This study considered the impact of dual tasks on soccer players' tactical performance within SSGs and compared the effects of motor and cognitive secondary tasks on soccer players' tactical performance. A total of 24 U-13 soccer players (12.34 +/- 0.55 years) took part in the study, playing SSGs under four different conditions: a single task (ST) condition: players performed only SSGs; a motor dual-task (MDT) condition: players performed SSGs while balancing a basketball ball on a cone; a cognitive dual-task 1 (CDT1) condition: players performed SSGs while doing math operations; a cognitive dual-task 2 (CDT2) condition: players performed SSGs while doing a memorization task. Tactical performance was assessed using the FUT-SAT under all experimental conditions. Players showed higher tactical performance in SSGs with a ST than SSGs with secondary tasks (p < 0.001). When comparing secondary tasks in SSGs, players presented a better tactical performance in SSGs with cognitive secondary tasks than in SSGs with a motor secondary task (p = 0.02). In conclusion, dual tasks impair the tactical performance of soccer players, with the motor secondary task inducing greater impairment than secondary cognitive tasks.		[Moreira, Pedro Emilio Drumond; Albuquerque, Maicon Rodrigues; Praca, Gibson Moreira] Univ Fed Minas Gerais, Sports Dept, Belo Horizonte, Brazil; [Albuquerque, Maicon Rodrigues] Univ Fed Minas Gerais, Neurosci Phys Act & Sports Res Grp, Belo Horizonte, Brazil; [Fortes, Leonardo de Sousa] Univ Fed Paraiba, Dept Phys Educ, Joao Pessoa, Brazil; [Praca, Gibson Moreira] Univ Fed Minas Gerais, Sports Dept, Belo Horizonte, Brazil								10							Sport Sciences	WOS:001506187400019	51	Article; Article		
J	Kraemer, William J.; Nitka, Mike								Blueprint for Excellence: A Basic Guide to Establishing a High School Performance Center								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				47	2			245	249		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000861			APR 2025	2025	In the evolving arena of high school athletics, the development of a state-of-the-art strength and conditioning facility emerges as a transformative milestone that notably enhances athletic performance, diminishes injury risks, and fosters a culture of excellence and discipline. Leveraging insights from the "Essentials of Strength Training and Conditioning 4th edition," the "NSCA's Guide to High School Strength and Conditioning," and the column author's (M.N.) extensive experience at Muskego High School, this column delineates essential steps for conceptualizing, creating, and managing a high school performance center. Emphasizing more than mere spatial expansion, it showcases the facility's role in broadening educational scopes, enhancing athletic ambition, and deepening commitment to health and physical education. Through a collaborative stakeholder engagement process and meticulous planning, the article outlines a pathway for establishing a facility that reflects the school's commitment to its students' holistic well-being, blending rigorous academic principles with practical insights to guide educators, coaches, and administrators in fostering environments conducive to athletic and personal development.		[Kraemer, William J.] Ohio State Univ, Dept Human Sci, Dept Athlet, Columbus, OH 43210 USA; [Nitka, Mike] Muskego High Sch, Muskego, WI USA; [Nitka, Mike] Carroll Univ, Waukesha, WI USA; [Kraemer, William J.] Ohio State Univ, Dept Human Sci, Dept Athlet, Columbus, OH 43210 USA								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001458505900010	0	Article; Article		
J	Ryu, Yoonji; Jeong, Jaehyun; Zhao, Xiangyu; Pyun, Hyunwoong								Beauty premium and penalty in sport: text analysis of Instagram comments in the Korean women's volleyball league								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				26	4			823	842		10.1108/IJSMS-09-2024-0266			DEC 2 2025	2025	PurposeThis study aimed to explore the impact of players' performance (points/errors) on fan emotions, focusing on how their characteristics, such as being superstar players and facial attractiveness, potentially moderate this relationship. Additionally, it sought to uncover the presence of a "beauty premium" or "beauty penalty" in the context of professional women's volleyball by examining its potential implications for fans' behavior and discrimination.Design/methodology/approachWe collected player performance (points/errors) data and game results from 126 games of the 2022-2023 season of the Korean Volleyball Federation and sentiment data from Instagram comments on official team accounts, representing fan emotions in 252 game-result posts. Using a pretrained deep learning model (KcBERT), we estimated the sentiment scores for each comment. We also collected beauty scores for 139 players using the hierarchical multi-task network model. Fixed-effects panel regression models were employed to explore how game outcomes, points and errors influenced fan emotion and whether player characteristics (all-star status and attractiveness) moderated these relationships.FindingsFan emotions were influenced by game outcomes and player characteristics. Fans expressed more positive comments when their team won and scored points; however, their emotional responses differed between all-star and non-all-star players. Notably, a beauty premium was observed when an attractive player made errors, whereas a beauty penalty appeared when they scored points.Originality/valueThis study advances the use of artificial intelligence to enhance measurement accuracy and efficiency, expanding on prior research by exploring how beauty moderates not only just salaries or prizes but also player performance and fan behavior.		[Ryu, Yoonji] Hankuk Univ Foreign Studies, Div Global Sport Ind, Yongin, South Korea; [Jeong, Jaehyun; Zhao, Xiangyu; Pyun, Hyunwoong] Sungkyunkwan Univ, Coll Sport Sci, Suwon, South Korea; [Pyun, Hyunwoong] Sungkyunkwan Univ, Coll Sport Sci, Suwon, South Korea								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001454486800001	59	Article; Article		
J	Bialy, Maciej; Adamczyk, Waclaw M.; Stranc, Tomasz; Gogola, Anna; Gnat, Rafal								The Association between Pelvic Asymmetry and Lateral Abdominal Muscle Activity in a Healthy Population								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				97				77	87		10.5114/jhk/191098			APR 2025	2025	The human pelvis is subjected to forces generated by abdominal muscles. Pelvic asymmetry (PA) might therefore be related to the asymmetrical postural activity of the lateral abdominal muscles (LAMs: transversus abdominis (TrA); internal oblique (IO); external oblique (EO)). The main aim of this study was to evaluate the potential relationship between PA, expressed by the asymmetry index in the frontal (PAIf) and sagittal (PAIs) planes and LAM postural activity as described by the tissue deformation index (TDI). A group of126 healthy volunteers (59 females) was involved. Positions of the anatomic landmarks for PA measurement were registered by the motion capture system. The response of LAMs to postural disturbation was recorded using the M-mode ultrasounds. We found weak negative correlations between PAIf and TDI values as well for the right and the left side of the body except for EO muscle (PAIf-TRA right: r = -0.11, left: r = -0.06; PAIf-IO right: r = -0.15, left: r = -0.10; PAIf-EO right: r = 0.02, left: r = 0.12). On the contrary, analysis between PAIs and TDI values revealed weak positive correlations, also except for EO muscle (PAIf-TRA right: r = 0.004, left: r = 0.003; PAIf-IO right: r = 0.05, left: r = 0.06; PAIf-EO right: r = 0.07, left: r = -0.02). For all tested correlations, we recorded non-significant outcomes (all p > 0.05). We found no evidence to support the claim that PA is related to the LAM activity in the group of young, healthy, and active people.		[Bialy, Maciej; Gogola, Anna] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Inst Physiotherapy & Hlth Sci, Katowice, Poland; [Bialy, Maciej] Scanmed Sport, Funct Diagnost Lab, Sport Klini, Zory, Poland; [Adamczyk, Waclaw M.] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Inst Physiotherapy & Hlth Sci, Lab Pain Res, Katowice, Poland; [Stranc, Tomasz] Piast Gliwice Football Club, Gliwice, Poland; [Gnat, Rafal] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Inst Physiotherapy & Hlth Sci, Mot Anal Lab, PL-40065 Katowice, Poland; [Bialy, Maciej] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Inst Physiotherapy & Hlth Sci, Katowice, Poland; [Bialy, Maciej] Scanmed Sport, Funct Diagnost Lab, Sport Klini, Zory, Poland								10							Sport Sciences	WOS:001506187400006	36	Article; Article		
J	Hayward, Lorna; Hogan, Dylan; Melam, Avery; Raine, Lauren; Mccullough, Aston; Bell, Amanda								Power Wheelchair Adaptive Team Sport Involvement: Experience, Impact on Quality of Life, and Physical Fitness								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				96	3			607	616		10.1080/02701367.2025.2469910			JUL 3 2025	2025	Purpose: Adults with disabilities can benefit from physical activity. Athletic activity for adults with disabilities requires adaptation to their physical and/or intellectual limitations. However, few adaptive, inclusive sports programs exist for power wheelchair users. Methods: A multi-method, qualitative case-study design was used to describe the experiences of athlete participation in powerful wheelchair adaptive team sports, specifically, soccer and volt hockey. Ten qualitative interviews with 5 players from the US and 5 from Scandinavia explored player experiences with adaptive team sports. The authors assessed overall health once using the World Health Organization Quality of Life Survey (WHOQOL-BREF). Subsequent heart rate data were collected from players while at rest and during adaptive team sport scrimmages. Results: Four qualitative themes described adults with disability experiences: Community; Personal gain; Competition; and Barriers. WHOQOL-BREF means averaged 60 points for all four domains, no significant differences existed between US and Scandinavian players. Heart rate data demonstrated a significant increase in heart rate during scrimmage compared to rest. Conclusion: Adaptive team sports provided participants with valuable social interaction, decreased isolation, and increased opportunities for mentorship and advocacy. Participants reported personal gain related to mental, emotional, and physical benefits not found elsewhere. Competition allowed participants to set both team and individual goals for improvement. Barriers to play concerned equipment, volunteers, and ableist attitudes.		[Hayward, Lorna; Hogan, Dylan; Melam, Avery; Raine, Lauren; Mccullough, Aston; Bell, Amanda] Northeastern Univ, Dept Phys Therapy Movement & Rehabil Sci, 301 Robinson Hall, Boston, MA 02115 USA; [Hayward, Lorna] Northeastern Univ, Dept Phys Therapy Movement & Rehabil Sci, 301 Robinson Hall, Boston, MA 02115 USA								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001447549800001	58	Article; Article		
J	Sancho, Juan; Malliaras, Peter; Chimenti, Ruth L.; Sancho, Igor								Current clinical management of Achilles tendinopathy by Spanish physiotherapists: An observational study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				73				57	67		10.1016/j.ptsp.2025.03.006			MAY 2025	2025	Objectives: The purpose of this study was to explore how Spanish physiotherapists manage Achilles tendinopathy and to evaluate the alignment of their practices with established clinical guidelines. Design: A cross-sectional online survey of Spanish physiotherapists. Setting: Clinical environment. Participants: Four hundred thirty-four physiotherapists completed the survey. Methods: An online survey was administered to Spanish physiotherapists between March and April 2024. The survey collected data on clinicians' demographics, treatment approaches, and preferences. Descriptive analysis was performed, with nominal and ordinal data analyzed through frequency counts. Results: Valid responses were received from 434 physiotherapists with a mean age of 32 years (IQR = 15, range 22-60). Exercise and education were the most used treatments (94 % and 78 % of respondents respectively), although there was variability in their implementation. However, a significant proportion of Spanish physiotherapists (64 %) reported using invasive techniques, which may reduce the time spent on evidence-based interventions (p = 0.001) for the management of Achilles tendinopathy. Conclusions: Spanish physiotherapists generally follow clinical guidelines for managing AT, with exercise and education as the main interventions. Despite the limited evidence, invasive techniques and manual therapy (74 %) are widely used. Future research should clarify the impact of this practice in the Spanish population.		[Sancho, Juan; Sancho, Igor] Univ Deusto, Fac Hlth Sci, Phys Therapy Dept, Deusto Phys TherapIker Grp, Bldg Antxieta, Mundaitz Kalea 50, Box A103, Donostia San Sebastian 20012, Spain; [Malliaras, Peter] Monash Univ, Sch Primary Hlth Care, Dept Physiotherapy, Frankston, Vic, Australia; [Chimenti, Ruth L.] Univ Iowa, Dept Phys Therapy & Rehabil Sci, Iowa City, IA USA; [Sancho, Igor] Univ Deusto, Fac Hlth Sci, Phys Therapy Dept, Deusto Phys TherapIker Grp, Bldg Antxieta, Mundaitz Kalea 50, Box A103, Donostia San Sebastian 20012, Spain								1							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001450253300001	48	Article; Article		
J	Doeringer, Fabienne; Heger, Larissa; Meinhardt, Guenter; Grob, Julia; Bindel, Tim; Pfeiffer, Mark								Experiencing (un)known in the phase of talent detection. Effects of a movement intervention on sports preferences at primary school age								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	4			1457	1466		10.1177/17479541251322310			AUG 2025	2025	Achieving engagement in sport is contingent upon the fit of the sport. This is particularly salient when entering sport, as talent detection is not solely reliant on motor skills and motivation. Interest and needs, as well as the identification of a suitable sport, are also crucial factors. The aim of the study is to facilitate children's exposure to a myriad of subjects and possibilities, namely sports, with the objective of potentially arousing interest. Additionally, the study seeks to investigate whether these experiences elicit changes in children's preferences towards particular sports. In a pre-post design, 306 children in 3rd and 4th grade in Germany were divided into an intervention group (n = 182) and a non-intervention group (n = 124) and asked about their sports preferences ('I like') at two measurement points using photos and videos. The intervention group took part in an intervention between the surveys, which introduced them to a wide variety of sports. These experiences were designed by applying pedagogical modulators to inspire as many children as possible. A linear mixed model analysis shows significant group differences in preferences ('I like'), which vary by sport and are particularly evident for children with no previous sport experience. The study's implementation in Germany's all-day school program ensures the reach of all children. Additional guided experiences are a promising approach to fostering interest in sports among children. This strategy ensures that children are presented with opportunities to engage in sports that align with their preferences and aspirations.Achieving engagement in sport is contingent upon the fit of the sport. This is particularly salient when entering sport, as talent detection is not solely reliant on motor skills and motivation. Interest and needs, as well as the identification of a suitable sport, are also crucial factors. The aim of the study is to facilitate children's exposure to a myriad of subjects and possibilities, namely sports, with the objective of potentially arousing interest. Additionally, the study seeks to investigate whether these experiences elicit changes in children's preferences towards particular sports. In a pre-post design, 306 children in 3rd and 4th grade in Germany were divided into an intervention group (n = 182) and a non-intervention group (n = 124) and asked about their sports preferences ('I like') at two measurement points using photos and videos. The intervention group took part in an intervention between the surveys, which introduced them to a wide variety of sports. These experiences were designed by applying pedagogical modulators to inspire as many children as possible. A linear mixed model analysis shows significant group differences in preferences ('I like'), which vary by sport and are particularly evident for children with no previous sport experience. The study's implementation in Germany's all-day school program ensures the reach of all children. Additional guided experiences are a promising approach to fostering interest in sports among children. This strategy ensures that children are presented with opportunities to engage in sports that align with their preferences and aspirations.Achieving engagement in sport is contingent upon the fit of the sport. This is particularly salient when entering sport, as talent detection is not solely reliant on motor skills and motivation. Interest and needs, as well as the identification of a suitable sport, are also crucial factors. The aim of the study is to facilitate children's exposure to a myriad of subjects and possibilities, namely sports, with the objective of potentially arousing interest. Additionally, the study seeks to investigate whether these experiences elicit changes in children's preferences towards particular sports. In a pre-post design, 306 children in 3rd and 4th grade in Germany were divided into an intervention group (n = 182) and a non-intervention group (n = 124) and asked about their sports preferences ('I like') at two measurement points using photos and videos. The intervention group took part in an intervention between the surveys, which introduced them to a wide variety of sports. These experiences were designed by applying pedagogical modulators to inspire as many children as possible. A linear mixed model analysis shows significant group differences in preferences ('I like'), which vary by sport and are particularly evident for children with no previous sport experience. The study's implementation in Germany's all-day school program ensures the reach of all children. Additional guided experiences are a promising approach to fostering interest in sports among children. This strategy ensures that children are presented with opportunities to engage in sports that align with their preferences and aspirations.Achieving engagement in sport is contingent upon the fit of the sport. This is particularly salient when entering sport, as talent detection is not solely reliant on motor skills and motivation. Interest and needs, as well as the identification of a suitable sport, are also crucial factors. The aim of the study is to facilitate children's exposure to a myriad of subjects and possibilities, namely sports, with the objective of potentially arousing interest. Additionally, the study seeks to investigate whether these experiences elicit changes in children's preferences towards particular sports. In a pre-post design, 306 children in 3rd and 4th grade in Germany were divided into an intervention group (n = 182) and a non-intervention group (n = 124) and asked about their sports preferences ('I like') at two measurement points using photos and videos. The intervention group took part in an intervention between the surveys, which introduced them to a wide variety of sports. These experiences were designed by applying pedagogical modulators to inspire as many children as possible. A linear mixed model analysis shows significant group differences in preferences ('I like'), which vary by sport and are particularly evident for children with no previous sport experience. The study's implementation in Germany's all-day school program ensures the reach of all children. Additional guided experiences are a promising approach to fostering interest in sports among children. This strategy ensures that children are presented with opportunities to engage in sports that align with their preferences and aspirations.		[Doeringer, Fabienne; Heger, Larissa; Grob, Julia; Bindel, Tim; Pfeiffer, Mark] Johannes Gutenberg Univ Mainz, Inst Sports Sci, Albert Schweitzer Str 22, D-55128 Mainz, Germany; [Meinhardt, Guenter] Johannes Gutenberg Univ Mainz, Inst Psychol, Mainz, Germany; [Doeringer, Fabienne] Johannes Gutenberg Univ Mainz, Inst Sports Sci, Albert Schweitzer Str 22, D-55128 Mainz, Germany								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001447461800001	38	Article; Article		
J	Paul, Yannik; Mathes, Justus; Maurus, Esther; Memmert, Daniel								The importance of positional placement: Investigating the influence of different infield positions of floater players in small-sided soccer games								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	3			1080	1096		10.1177/17479541251318946			JUN 2025	2025	Small-Sided Games are a widely used and well-researched training method in soccer, valued for their flexibility in adapting to various training objectives through the modification of a numerous variables. However, certain areas still require further investigation. This study examined whether players' infield positions affect performance when playing as floaters in different zones. 4 min Small-Sided Games were conducted as 6 vs. 6 matches with 2 floater players and goalkeepers, involving floaters as central and wide players in an outer zones and an inner zone condition. The analysis focused on match metrics (e.g., outcome of possession phases), running data across different speed zones, technical (e.g., number of ball possession actions) and tactical performance indicator (e.g., effective playing space or space control). Results indicate that central players contributed to a better average outcome per ball possession phase compared to wide players, reflected by their lower average scores (outer zones: 2.53 +/- 1.18 vs. 3.33 +/- 0.72, inner zone: 2.58 +/- 1.12 vs. 2.81 +/- 1.17, mean +/- standard deviation). Furthermore, the zone played in, but not the player position, showed significant differences in terms of high-speed running (p < .01) and sprinting behavior (p < .05). Because data from each zone proved to be representative of regular matches, the findings suggest the following implications: For return-to-play, athletes can start in the central zone with fewer high-intensity runs; position-specific training should focus on usual roles, while new stimuli can be introduced by assigning players to unfamiliar positions.		[Paul, Yannik; Mathes, Justus; Maurus, Esther; Memmert, Daniel] German Sports Univ, Sportpark Mungersdorf 6, D-50933 Cologne, Germany; [Paul, Yannik] German Sports Univ, Sportpark Mungersdorf 6, D-50933 Cologne, Germany								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001444415300001	73	Article; Article		
J	Locke, Auston R.; Koehne, Niklas H.; Ramey, Matthew D.; Corvi, John J.; Alley, Austin A.; Yendluri, Avanish; Song, Junho; Namiri, Nikan K.; Enabulele, Osemwengie; Waterman, Brian R.; Li, Xinning; Parisien, Robert L.								The rise in electric biking (E-bike) injuries: a 10-year age and sex-specific analysis of national injury data								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				53	5			345	352		10.1080/00913847.2025.2470104			SEP 3 2025	2025	ObjectivesElectric biking (E-bike) is a growing recreation and transportation mode often linked to high-impact injuries. This study aimed to identify the age and sex-specific distribution and primary mechanisms of E-bike-related injuries in the US.MethodsThe National Electronic Injury Surveillance System (NEISS) was queried for E-bike-related injuries present to US Emergency Department (Eds) from 1 January 2013-31 December 2022. Each narrative was reviewed to exclude injuries not sustained while directly operating an E-bike. Injuries that occurred while riding regular bikes, mopeds, or motorized vehicles that were not E-bikes were also excluded. Patient demographics, injured body part, diagnosis, and disposition were recorded. NEISS narratives were assessed to identify injury mechanisms. Annual injury trends were evaluated by exponential regression and case weighting was completed, all using SPSS statistical software.ResultsA total of 45,845 nationally estimated (NE) E-bike-related injuries (1,049 NEISS Cases) presented to US EDs from 2013 to 2022. Exponential regression revealed a significant increase in annual injuries across the study period (p = 0.047). The frequency of injuries remained steady prior to 2019, with a 90.9% increase from 2019 (NE: 2,171) to 2022 (NE: 23749) (p = 0.005). Hospitalization was required for 10.9% of patients following E-bike-related injury, with hospitalization most frequently occurring through fracture (51.2%) and concussion (29.9%). The most injured body part for the youth, middle school, and high school age groups was the head, whereas for the college, young adult, and adult group was the finger. Lastly, 30% of injuries associated with E-biking had motor vehicle involvement.ConclusionThe rate of E-bike-related injuries has risen significantly over the last decade, including a large increase post-COVID. Falls causing fractures were the most frequent injury type for both sexes. Greater than 10% of patients required hospital admission. The high rate of vehicle-induced collisions emphasizes the need for additional regulations and legislation to protect E-bikers.		[Locke, Auston R.; Koehne, Niklas H.; Corvi, John J.; Yendluri, Avanish; Song, Junho; Namiri, Nikan K.; Parisien, Robert L.] Icahn Sch Med Mt Sinai, Dept Orthopaed Surg, 5 East 98th St,9th Floor, New York, NY 10029 USA; [Ramey, Matthew D.] Columbia Univ, Med Ctr, New York, NY USA; [Alley, Austin A.] Brown Univ, Providence, RI USA; [Enabulele, Osemwengie] Tufts Univ, Dept Orthoped Surg, Boston, MA USA; [Waterman, Brian R.] Wake Forest Univ, Dept Orthoped Surg Winston Salem, Winston Salem, NC USA; [Li, Xinning] Boston Univ, Dept Orthoped, Boston, MA USA; [Locke, Auston R.] Icahn Sch Med Mt Sinai, Dept Orthopaed Surg, 5 East 98th St,9th Floor, New York, NY 10029 USA								10							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001457435000001	36	Article; Article		
J	Hickey, Jack T.; Lennon, Cian; Gillick, Michael; Sweeney, Liam								Measuring eccentric hip adductor strength during the Copenhagen adduction exercise: A proof-of-concept and test re-test reliability study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				73				34	38		10.1016/j.ptsp.2025.03.001			MAY 2025	2025	Objectives: To describe a novel method for measuring eccentric hip adductor (EHAD) strength during the Copenhagen adduction exercise (CAE) and investigate the test re-test reliability of this measure. Design: Test re-test reliability study. Participants: Twenty male athletes aged 24 +/- 6 years participated in two data collection sessions 7 +/- 2 days apart. Main outcome measures: During each data collection session, participants performed three maximal effort repetitions of the CAE with their leg supported by an ankle strap hung from a fixed barbell. We attached a commercially available load cell in-series with the ankle strap to measure peak force in Newtons (N) during the eccentric lowering phase of the CAE. The intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC), standard error of measurement (SEM), SEM as a percentage of the mean (SEM%) and minimal detectable change at a 95% confidence interval (MDC95) were calculated for this measure of EHAD strength. Results: Test re-test reliability was good for EHAD strength measured during the CAE on dominant (ICC = 0.84; SEM% = 3.6%; MDC95 = 33 N) and non-dominant (ICC = 0.87; SEM% = 3.3%; MDC95 = 29 N) legs. Conclusions: This study provides proof-of-concept that EHAD strength can be measured during the CAE with good test re-test reliability.		[Hickey, Jack T.; Sweeney, Liam] Maynooth Univ, Dept Sport Sci & Nutr, Maynooth, Kildare, Ireland; [Hickey, Jack T.] Australian Catholic Univ, Sports Performance Recovery Injury & New Technol S, Canberra, Australia; [Lennon, Cian] Longford Town Football Club, Dublin, County Longford, Ireland; [Gillick, Michael] Maynooth Gael Athlet Assoc Club, Maynooth, Kildare, Ireland; [Hickey, Jack T.] Maynooth Univ, Dept Sport Sci & Nutr, Maynooth, Kildare, Ireland								1							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001442809900001	27	Article; Article		
J	Mariano, Isadora G. A.; Alves, Lais Emanuelle M.; Rodrigues, Eduester L.; Azevedo, Bruna R.; Castro, Ana Luiza O.; Mendonca, Luciana D.								Analysis of musculoskeletal injuries in elite female soccer players: Cohort study in one Brazilian team								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				73				25	33		10.1016/j.ptsp.2025.02.009			MAY 2025	2025	Purpose: The objectives of this study were to identify if preseason assessment variables predict lower limb musculoskeletal injuries in female soccer players and to compare characteristics between injured and non-injured athletes. Design: 4-month retrospective cohort study. Setting: An elite women's soccer team from Brazil. Participants: Twenty-seven female soccer players. Main outcomes measures: Lower limb length and asymmetry, hamstring flexibility, isokinetic strength of the hamstrings and quadriceps, single hop, lunge test, mSEBT, Thomas, trunk mobility, hip adductor strength, Bentknee fall-out for testing hip range of motion, lateral trunk flexor endurance, Hip Sit, and single-leg and countermovement jump were recorded at baseline. Logistic regression analyses were performed to identify predictors for the occurrence of lower limb musculoskeletal injuries. Results: The logistic regression showed a significant model for lower limb musculoskeletal injuries. Trunk mobility, Hip Sit test, and were associated with injury (p = 0.016; R-2 = 0,589). The model correctly classified 84.8% of cases (84.6% sensitivity and 85% specificity). The area under the receiver operating characteristic curve was 0.68 (95% CI: 0.53, 0.83; P < 0.024) demonstrating acceptable discriminative ability. Conclusion: The model showed that trunk mobility, Hip Sit, and Bent-knee fall-out were predictors of lower limb musculoskeletal injuries in female soccer players.		[Mariano, Isadora G. A.; Alves, Lais Emanuelle M.; Castro, Ana Luiza O.; Mendonca, Luciana D.] Univ Fed Minas Gerais UFMG, Postgrad Program Rehabil Sci, Phys Therapy Dept, Sch Phys Educ Phys Therapy & Occupat Therapy, President Antonio Carlos Ave 6627, BR-31270901 Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil; [Rodrigues, Eduester L.; Azevedo, Bruna R.] Cruzeiro Esporte Clube, Phys Therapy Dept, Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil; [Mendonca, Luciana D.] Univ Fed Minas Gerais UFMG, Sch Phys Educ Phys Therapy & Occupat Therapy, Phys Therapy Dept, President Antonio Carlos Ave 6627, BR-31270901 Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil; [Mendonca, Luciana D.] Univ Fed Minas Gerais UFMG, Postgrad Program Rehabil Sci, Phys Therapy Dept, Sch Phys Educ Phys Therapy & Occupat Therapy, President Antonio Carlos Ave 6627, BR-31270901 Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001442889400001	54	Article; Article		
J	Higham, Samuel M.; Mendham, Amy E.; Rosenbaum, Simon; Allen, Nicholas G.; Smith, Greg; Duffield, Rob								Effect of Concurrent Exercise Training on Stress, Depression and Anxiety in Inactive Academics: Secondary Analysis of a Randomized Controlled Trial								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				96	3			563	572		10.1080/02701367.2025.2461322			JUL 3 2025	2025	This randomized controlled trial investigated the effect of concurrent training (CT) on the mental health of inactive academics and examined associations between changes in stress (effort-reward imbalance and general stress), depressive symptoms and systemic inflammation. Fifty-nine inactive academics were randomly assigned to a CT (n = 29) or control (non-exercise) group (n = 30). CT performed supervised group training at an onsite facility 3 times per week for 14-weeks. Symptoms of depression, anxiety, and stress (job specific and general), and systemic inflammation (Interleukin-6 and Tumor necrosis factor-alpha) were measured pre and post intervention, and ecological momentary assessment of wellness measures was conducted before and during the last 2-weeks of the intervention. An effort-reward imbalance was evident before (CT, 1.26 +/- 0.37; control; 1.22 +/- 0.47) and after (CT, 1.16 +/- 0.31; control; 1.21 +/- 0.35) training, with no interaction effect (p > .05). Following CT, symptoms of depression decreased in the CT group (p = .009) with no change in control (p = .463). There were positive correlations between changes in stress and symptoms of depression (p < .05), but no relationship between changes in systemic inflammation and changes in stress or depression (p > .05). CT can decrease symptoms of depression in inactive academics despite the continued presence of an effort-reward imbalance. These findings may be important for universities aiming to improve the mental health of currently inactive academics.		[Higham, Samuel M.; Allen, Nicholas G.; Duffield, Rob] Univ Technol Sydney UTS, Fac Hlth, Sch Sport Exercise & Rehabil, Level 3,orner Moore Pk Rd & Driver Ave, Moore Pk, NSW 2021, Australia; [Mendham, Amy E.] UNIV WITWATERSRAND, Johannesburg, South Africa; [Mendham, Amy E.] Univ Cape Town, Cape Town, South Africa; [Rosenbaum, Simon; Smith, Greg] UNSW Sydney, Sydney, NSW 2052, Australia; [Higham, Samuel M.] Univ Technol Sydney UTS, Fac Hlth, Sch Sport Exercise & Rehabil, Level 3,orner Moore Pk Rd & Driver Ave, Moore Pk, NSW 2021, Australia								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001441890600001	52	Article; Article		
J	Teschler, Marc; Bothur, Evita; Samel, Nadine; Waranski, Melina; Walscheid, Ruediger; Schmitz, Boris; Mooren, Frank C.								Time Course of Inflammatory and Endocrine Factors Following a Single-Bout of High-Intensity WB-EMS - A Randomized Crossover Study								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				96	3			580	589		10.1080/02701367.2025.2464195			JUL 3 2025	2025	The aim of the study was to gain insight into the time course of whole-body electromyostimulation (WB-EMS)-induced inflammatory and endocrine factors over 72 h. Twelve healthy individuals (5 men, 7 women; 33.0 +/- 12 years) randomly performed a single 20-minute high-intensity WB-EMS and a time- and intensity-matched whole-body circuit training (CT) with a 3-week wash-out period. Blood samples were taken pre- and post-training and at 1.5, 3, 24, 48 and 72 h after exercise to assess creatine kinase (CK), myoglobin, and creatinine, cell populations (red and white blood cells [RBC, WBC], thrombocytes), cytokines (interleukin IL-1Ra, IL-6, IL-10, monocyte chemoattractant protein 1 [MCP-1]), angiogenic factors (IL-8, vascular endothelial growth factor [VEGF], thrombospondin), adipokines (leptin, adiponectin), and hormones (testosterone, cortisol). WB-EMS induced significant CK elevations peaking at 72 h (WB-EMS, 18,358 +/- 21,380 vs. CT, 186 +/- 129 U/l; time x group, p < .001) and increased MCP-1 after 3 h (time x group, p < .05). Both protocols induced similar effects on WBC, RBC, IL-1Ra, IL-8, leptin, and cortisol (overall time effect, all p < .01). WBC increased at 1.5 and 3 h (p < .001) and RBC decreased over 72 h (p < .05). IL-1Ra peaked at 1.5 h (p < .01) and IL-8 was elevated at 3-72 h (p < .05). The cortisol and leptin decreases lasted up to 48 and 72 h, respectively (p < .05). Despite inducing muscle damage, a single of high-intensity WB-EMS session did not lead to significantly different inflammatory and hormonal signaling compared to an acute aerobic CT session. Prolonged studies are needed to investigate whether regular WB-EMS leads to more pronounced training adaptations despite similar signaling signatures.		[Teschler, Marc; Waranski, Melina; Schmitz, Boris; Mooren, Frank C.] Univ Witten Herdecke, Witten, Germany; [Teschler, Marc; Waranski, Melina; Schmitz, Boris; Mooren, Frank C.] DRV Clin Konigsfeld, Ctr Med Rehabil, Ennepetal, Germany; [Bothur, Evita; Samel, Nadine; Walscheid, Ruediger] MVZ Lab Med & Microbiol, Dortmund, Germany; [Teschler, Marc] Klin Konigsfeld, Holthauser Talstr 2, D-58256 Ennepetal, Germany								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001442001300001	68	Article; Article		
J	Zavala, Pedro; Heinert, Becky; Rudek, Grace; Rutherford, Drew N.; Matheson, J. W.; Kernozek, Thomas W.								Effects of augmented feedback on landing mechanics after anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction in collegiate females compared to healthy controls								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				73				1	8		10.1016/j.ptsp.2025.02.008			MAY 2025	2025	Objective: To analyze if immediate visual and verbal feedback influenced landing mechanics during single and dual-task conditions in recreationally active females with a history of anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction (ACLr) compared to healthy controls. Design: Cross-sectional cohort study. Setting: Motion Laboratory. Participants: 33 college-aged females with two to five years status post-ACLr and 33 matched health controls. Materials and methods: 30 Drop landings were performed over one single session with immediate post-trial feedback followed by a retention trial on peak vGRF and symmetry. Main outcome measures: Vertical ground reaction forces (vGRFs) during drop landing from a 50-cm platform and loading rate (LR) normalized to body weight. Results: For peak vGRF, there was a time effect from baseline, post-test, and transfer task trials. Based on baseline, post-test, and transfer tasks, there was a significant group-by-time interaction between the ACLr and a healthy group. For peak vGRF asymmetry, there was no time effect from baseline, post-test, and transfer task trials. There was a significant group effect for peak vGRF asymmetry. Total LR did not show a time effect from baseline, posttest, and transfer task. The ACLr group demonstrated higher LR compared to the health group. Conclusions: Results demonstrated a reduction in peak vGRF and asymmetry in vGRF during drop landings with the inclusion of augmented feedback. The ACLr group demonstrated higher LR than the control group. Rehabilitation specialists may be able to incorporate targeted feedback as an intervention to help resolve landing asymmetries following ACLr.		[Zavala, Pedro; Matheson, J. W.] Twin Cities Orthoped, 4100 Minnesota Dr, Edina, MN 55435 USA; [Heinert, Becky; Rudek, Grace; Rutherford, Drew N.; Kernozek, Thomas W.] Univ Wisconsin, La Crosse Inst Movement Sci, 1300 Badger St, La Crosse, WI 54601 USA; [Heinert, Becky] Winona State Univ, Hlth Exercise & Rehabil Sci Dept, Winona, MN 55987 USA; [Rudek, Grace; Rutherford, Drew N.; Kernozek, Thomas W.] Univ Wisconsin, Hlth Profess Dept, 1300 Badger St, La Crosse, WI 54601 USA; [Kernozek, Thomas W.] Univ Wisconsin, Dept Hlth Profess, Phys Therapy Program, FACSM, 1300 Badger St, La Crosse, WI 54601 USA								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001438655600001	61	Article; Article		
J	de la Rubia, Alfonso; Molina-Martin, Juan Jose; Muriarte-Solana, Diego; Veiga, Santiago; Nieto-Acevedo, Raul; Lopez-Serrano, Carlos								Examining the role of maturity status on physical performance: A case study in the Spanish volleyball talent development programme								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	4			1707	1716		10.1177/17479541251323538			AUG 2025	2025	Maturation is one of the determining factors in talent identification and development systems. The aim of the present study was to assess the impact of maturity status and anthropometric variables on the physical performance of young volleyball players. The sample included 278 volleyball players (217 girls, 13.63 +/- 1.73 years; and 61 boys, 14.27 +/- 1.46 years) who were selected to participate in the 2020-2025 National Programme organised by the Spanish Volleyball Federation. Maturity status was estimated using the Khamis-Roche equation based on the percentage of predicted adult height. The physical tests evaluated were vertical jump, spike jump reach, 3 x 9 and FRAC. The results showed that an advanced maturation is associated with increased physical performance in young volleyball players. Specifically, 'maturity status' was strongly and positively associated with the VJ (p < 0.001), SJR (p < 0.001) and 3 x 9 (p < 0.001) tests in both boys and girls, and 'height' was associated with the VJ (girls, p < 0.001; boys, p < 0.01), SJR (p < 0.001, both) and 3 x 9 (girls, p < 0.001; boys, p < 0.01). 'Body mass' correlated with vertical jump tests (VJ and SJR), especially in girls (p < 0.001). Moreover, the maturity status in relation to age served as a predictor of physical performance in the SJR test explaining up to 57.93% and 62.00% of the variance in boys and girls respectively. Coaches and technical staffs should rethink the tests used in talent identification in order to avoid confusing the player's current potential with the future sporting level through actions such as adapting the training process or implementing educational initiatives in relation to maturation.		[de la Rubia, Alfonso; Molina-Martin, Juan Jose; Muriarte-Solana, Diego; Veiga, Santiago; Nieto-Acevedo, Raul; Lopez-Serrano, Carlos] Univ Politecn Madrid, Fac Ciencias Act Fis & Deporte, Dept Deportes, Deporte & Entrenamiento Res Grp, Madrid, Spain; [de la Rubia, Alfonso] Univ Politecn Madrid, Fac Ciencias Actividad Fis & Deporte, Calle Martin Fierro 7, Madrid 28040, Spain								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001436441100001	47	Article; Article		
J	Guo, Weishuai; Kim, Youngsuk; Wang, Junsig; Dong, Tengfei; Tang, Xuan; Kim, Sukwon								60-Second Static Stretching of Lower Limb Muscles Disrupts Muscular Performance and Control in Active Male Adults								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				24	1			195	204		10.52082/jssm.2025.195			MAR 2025	2025	This study aimed to investigate the effects of 60-second static stretching on the neuromuscular control strategies of lower limb muscles during a squat jump (SJ), with a specific focus on changes in muscle synergy patterns, muscle weightings, and temporal activation characteristics. The muscles targeted for stretching included the quadriceps, hamstrings, and triceps surae. Electromyography (EMG) was used to assess the activity of the biceps eralis (VL), and vastus medialis (VM). Twenty-five active males completed experiments under both a static stretching condition (SS) and a non-stretching condition (NS). Electromyography and non-negative matrix factorization (NMF) were employed to extract muscle synergy and the muscle weightings along with temporal activation characteristics were subsequently analyzed. The results revealed two distinct muscle synergy patterns in both the SS and NS. 60-second static stretching had no significant impact on the number of muscle synergy patterns during the squat jump. However, it significantly altered the contribution and temporal stretching muscle activation levels were lower during the early phase of the jump, necessitating compensatory activation in the were significantly lower in the stretched compared to the nonof static stretching before explosive movements may impair neuromuscular efficiency, ensuring proper and balanced static on individual muscles.		[Guo, Weishuai] Pingdingshan Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Pingdingshan, Peoples R China; [Guo, Weishuai; Kim, Youngsuk; Dong, Tengfei; Kim, Sukwon] Jeonbuk Natl Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Jeonju, South Korea; [Wang, Junsig] Kyung Hee Univ, Dept Sports Med, Yongin, South Korea; [Tang, Xuan] Yunnan Univ, Sch Phys Educ, Kunming, Yunnan, Peoples R China; [Kim, Sukwon] Jeonbuk Natl Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Jeonju, South Korea; [Tang, Xuan] Yunnan Univ, Sch Phys Educ, Kunming, Yunnan, Peoples R China								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:001437847200017	42	Article; Article		
J	Silva, Ana Filipa; Clemente, Filipe Manuel; Roriz, Mafalda Sofia; Azevedo, Jose Alberto; Jovanovic, Olivera; Adamovic, Marko; Bozic, Aleksandar; Silva, Rui								The Effect of Aerobic or Strength Training in Elderly with Cognitive Decline: The Fit4Alz Project								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				24	1			172	186		10.52082/jssm.2025.172			MAR 2025	2025	This study aimed to examine the effects of aerobic and strength training methodologies, either combined with or without cognitive training, on mitigating cognitive decline. A total of 154 subjects were recruited (72.8 +/- 6.1 years, 69% females) and were divided into four groups: i) strength plus cognitive training (STCT, n = 56); ii) strength training (ST, n = 23); iii) aerobic training (AT, n = 41); and iv) aerobic plus cognitive training (ATCT, n = 34). Subjects were previously cognitively assessed and showed cognitive decline (less than 26 points on the Montreal Cognitive Assessment, MoCA). For 12 weeks, all groups performed 3 times a week, for 60 minutes, a training program corresponding to their attributed group. The MoCA test and the Senior Fitness test were applied at the beginning and the end of the intervention. A repeated-measures ANCOVA revealed significant time-by-group interactions for physical performance measures, including the 2minute step-in-place (p = 0.026), arm curl (p < 0.001), chair sit- and-reach (p < 0.001), back-scratch (p < 0.001), 8-foot up-and-go (p < 0.001), and 6-minute walk tests (p < 0.001). However, no significant improvements were observed for cognitive function (MoCA, p = 0.242) or lower body strength (chair stand, p = 0.411). The AT group showed greater improvements in upper body strength compared to STCT and ST (p < 0.001; d = 0.698; p = 0.004; d = 0.598), while STCT significantly improved flexibility compared to ATCT (p < 0.001; d = 1.049). ATCT had the greatest improvements in aerobic endurance compared to STCT and ST (p = 0.004; d = 0.133; p < 0.001; d = 0.350). It was demonstrated that aerobic and strength training significantly improved overall physical performance in elderly individuals. However, no significant effects were observed on cognitive performance. Although these findings suggest that both aerobic and strength exercise, with or without cognitive training, improve overall physical fitness, further research is needed to determine its impact on cognitive performance.		[Roriz, Mafalda Sofia; Azevedo, Jose Alberto] Inst Politecn Viana do Castelo, Escola Super Desporto & Lazer, Rua Escola Ind & Comercial Nun Alvares, P-4900347 Viana Do Castelo, Portugal; [Jovanovic, Olivera; Adamovic, Marko; Bozic, Aleksandar] Sport Phys Act & Hlth Res & Innovat Ctr SPRINT, P-4900347 Viana Do Castelo, Portugal; [Roriz, Mafalda Sofia] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, PL-80336 Gdansk, Poland; [Roriz, Mafalda Sofia; Azevedo, Jose Alberto] Camara Municipal Maia, Praca Doutor Jose Vieira Carvalho, P-4474006 Maia, Portugal; [Jovanovic, Olivera; Adamovic, Marko; Bozic, Aleksandar] Assoc Sport All Vojvodina ASFAV, Masarikova 25, Novi Sad 21000, Serbia; [Roriz, Mafalda Sofia] Univ Maia UMAIA, Ave Carlos Oliveira Campos, P-4475690 Castelo Da Maia, Maia, Portugal; [Silva, Ana Filipa] Inst Politecn Viana de Castelo, Escola Super Desporto & Lazer, Complexo Desport & Lazer Comendador, P-4960320 Melgaco, Portugal								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:001437847200015	85	Article; Article		
J	Atalay, Erdem; Kizildogan, Ebru Turan								Reliability of Dynamic Balance Test with A Mobile Application of Physics Toolbox Suite								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				24	1			154	159		10.52082/jssm.2025.154			MAR 2025	2025	Although mobile applications are used as an alternative to expensive and difficult to access systems used to evaluate dynamic balance, existing applications have some shortcomings. This study aimed to evaluate the reliability of the Physics Toolbox Suite mobile application, which can obtain objective data for dynamic balance measurements in healthy adults, shorten the duration of measurements, and minimize the number of measurement equipment. The dynamic balance of 22 university students (9 male, 13 female, aged 20.3 (+/- 1.13 years)) was evaluated using the Physics Toolbox Suite mobile application in three test sessions with a 1lateral stability index (MLS), and overall stability index (OSI) of dynamic balance were calculated. Interclass Correlation Coeffi(CVSEM) were evaluated as indicators of intra- and inter-rater reliability. The mean APSI, MLSI, and OSI scores (Standard deviation) were 2.59 (0.69), 2.21 (0.68), and 3.58 (0.94), respectively. In the evaluation made with the Physics Toolbox Suite mobile application, APSI scores had good intra-rater (ICC(3,1) = 0.67) and inter-rater reliability (ICC(3,1) = 0.73), MLSI scores had high intra-rater (ICC(3,1) = 0.90) with good inter-rater reliability (ICC(3,1) = 0.71), and OSI scores had high intra- rater (ICC(3,1) = 0.87) with good inter-rater reliability (ICC(3,1) = 0.73). The professionals and athletes.		[Atalay, Erdem] Eskisehir Osmangazi Univ, Dept Sports Med, Fac Med, Eskisehir, Turkiye; [Kizildogan, Ebru Turan] Eskisehir Osmangazi Univ, Vocat Sch Hlth Serv, Med Serv & Tech Dept, Eskisehir, Turkiye; [Atalay, Erdem] Eskisehir Osmangazi Univ, Dept Sports Med, Fac Med, Eskisehir, Turkiye								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001423428800001	30	Article; Article		
J	Yang, LiuXi; Gao, BingHong; Chen, Yu; Xu, Qi; Zhou, JiuShu; Tang, Qi								Comparing The Effects of Maximal Strength Training, Plyometric Training, and Muscular Endurance Training on Swimming-Specific Performance Measures: A Randomized Parallel Controlled Study in Young Swimmers								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				24	1			128	141		10.52082/jssm.2025.128			MAR 2025	2025	The aim of this study was to compare the effects of maximal strength training (MST), plyometric training (PT), and muscular endurance training (MET) on starting performance and swimming performance at 25- and 50-meters freestyle. A randomized parallel controlled study was conducted involving twenty-seven high-level university swimmers (Tier 2), both men and women (age: 20.2 +/- 1.1 years). The training interventions lasted six weeks, with each training group participating twice a week. MST involved resistance training at 80-95% of one maximum repetition, while PT included maximal eccentric-concentric quick movements. MET, considered as a control group, consisted of free-weight exercises or light loads performed multiple times. The swimmers were assessed before, during (in the 3rd week), and after the interventions by measuring their start performance based on takeoff distance and time at the 15-meter mark. Swimming performance was assessed through the following tests: 25- meter freestyle kicking (without stroking), 25-meter freestyle stroke (without kicking), and 25-meter and 50-meter freestyle sprints. The mixed ANCOVA, using pre-evaluation scores as covariates, revealed that after the intervention, MST was significantly better than MET in start flight distance (p = 0.021), 15- meter start time (p < 0.001), 25-meter freestyle kick (p < 0.001), 25-meter freestyle stroke (p < 0.001), 25-meter freestyle (p = 0.004), and 50-meter freestyle (p < 0.001). PT was also significantly better than MET in 15-meter start time (p = 0.004), 25- meter freestyle kick (p = 0.011), 25-meter freestyle stroke (p < 0.001), and 50-meter freestyle (p = 0.014). After the intervention, no significant differences were found between MST and PT, although some differences were observed during the mid-evaluation. The conclusions reveal that, although all groups showed significant improvement in performance, MST and PT exhibited significantly better results compared to MET in enhancing sprint freestyle performance overall.		[Yang, LiuXi; Gao, BingHong] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Athlet Performance, Shanghai 200438, Peoples R China; [Xu, Qi] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, PL-80336 Gdansk, Poland; [Chen, Yu; Zhou, JiuShu; Tang, Qi] Chengdu Sport Univ, Sch Phys Educ, Chengdu 610041, Peoples R China; [Gao, BingHong] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Athlet Performance, Shanghai 200438, Peoples R China								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:001408773000001	38	Article; Article		
J	Bahrami, Mohammadmahdi; Rahmani, Hiwa; Button, Duane C.; Konrad, Andreas; Behm, David G.								The Acute Effects of Antagonist Static Stretching on Agonist Performance								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				24	1			93	103		10.52082/jssm.2025.93			MAR 2025	2025	Stretching the antagonist muscle to enhance agonist performance has gained considerable attention. However, most studies have focused on one stretching duration. Hence, the aim of this study was to compare varying durations (40-, 80-, and 120-seconds) of antagonist (dorsiflexors) static stretching (SS) on agonist (plantar flexors: PF) muscle performance. In this randomized crossover study, 16 participants (six females) underwent four sessions (40, 80-, 120-s dorsiflexors SS and control), with pre- and post-intervention measurements of slow (60(0)/s) and fast (240(0)/s) PF isokinetic, isometric peak torque, total work, stiff leg drop jump (SDJ) performance (height, reactive strength index (RSI) and peak power), and tibialis anterior and soleus electromyography (EMG). Dorsiflexors SS protocol involved 1x40-s (40-s), 2x40-s (80-s), and 3x40-s (120-s). There were no significant pre- to post- intervention changes in any parameter. A main effect for time demonstrated an overall decrease in fast (p < 0.0001, 5.9%, d = 0.24) and slow (p = 0.05, 6.6%, d = 0.24) isokinetic peak torque, total work (p = 0.02, 5.1%, d = 0.20) and all SDJ measures (SDJ height: p = 0.02, 2.7%, d = 0.15, RSI: p < 0.0001, 5.9%, d = 0.23, peak power: p = 0.002, 4.4%, d = 0.22). Soleus EMG decreased from pre- to post-SS after 120-s in both isometric (p = 0.002, 13.6%, d = 0.73) and slow isokinetic (p = 0.002, 12.3%, d = 0.91) peak torque as well as 80-s with slow isokinetic peak torque (p = 0.02, 6.6%, d = 0.75). In summary, different durations of dorsiflexors SS (40-s, 80-s, 120-s) did not significantly influence PF performance. However, deficits associated with a main effect for time suggested possible testing effects as detected with the control condition.		[Bahrami, Mohammadmahdi; Rahmani, Hiwa; Button, Duane C.; Konrad, Andreas; Behm, David G.] Mem Univ Newfoundland, Sch Human Kinet & Recreat, St John, NF, Canada; [Konrad, Andreas] Karl Franzens Univ Graz, Inst Human Movement Sci Sports & Hlth, Graz, Austria; [Behm, David G.] Mem Univ Newfoundland, Sch Human Kinet & Recreat, St John, NF, Canada								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:001394056100001	46	Article; Article		
J	Zheng, Bo; Xu, Qi; Zhang, Jie								Combining HIIT with Small-Sided Soccer Games Enhances Cardiometabolic and Physical Fitness More Than Each Alone in Overweight Youth: A Randomized Controlled Study								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				24	1			104	115		10.52082/jssm.2025.104			MAR 2025	2025	This study aimed to compare the effects of a combined high-intensity interval training (HIIT) and small-sided games (SSG) training program (SSG + HIIT) with training programs consisting solely of either HIIT or SSG on the cardiometabolic and physical fitness of sedentary, overweight youth. A randomized, parallel controlled study design was employed, with interventions lasting six weeks (twice a week, with each work time lasting 12-16 minutes). Fifty-seven sedentary, overweight male youth participants (15.1 +/- 0.8 years) were assessed twice on anthropometric measures, blood pressure, endurance (using the Multi-Stage Fitness Test, MSFT), muscle power (countermovement jump and broad jump), and change of direction ability (using the 5- 0 COD test). The session's ratings of perceived exertion (RPE) and scores on the Physical Activity Enjoyment Scale (PACES) were also monitored. The HIIT group exhibited a significantly smaller waist circumference compared to the control group (p = 0.041) after the intervention. The control group exhibited a significantly worst COD deficit compared to the SSG + HIIT (p = 0.002), SSG p = 0.001) and HIIT (p = 0.048) after the intervention. In the case of MSFT, the group exhibited a significantly smaller distance covered than SSG +HIIT (p = 0.002), and SSG (p = 0.005). Moreover, significant differences on RPE (p < 0.001) and PACES (p 0.001) was found between groups. The SSG + HIIT or SSG effective for improving COD and aerobic capacity, while being more enjoyable and less intense than HIIT alone. However, HIIT is more effective in reducing waist circumference. The research limitations include the short intervention duration, lack of control for diet and external factors, and the need for longer-term search.		[Zheng, Bo] Chengdu Normal Univ, Sch Phys Educ, Chengdu, Sichuan, Peoples R China; [Xu, Qi] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, PL-80336 Gdansk, Poland; [Zhang, Jie] Chengdu Sport Univ, Sch Football, Chengdu, Sichuan, Peoples R China; [Xu, Qi] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, PL-80336 Gdansk, Poland								6							Sport Sciences	WOS:001394032300001	57	Article; Article		
J	Matsumura, Teppei; Sakai, Yuya; Fukuzawa, Kazushi; Kojima, Chihiro; Hashimoto, Takeshi								Caffeine Exerts Neither Ergogenic nor Hypoalgesic Effects on Sprint Interval Exercise with Intensive Exercise-Induced Muscle Pain								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				24	1			1	8		10.52082/jssm.2025.1			MAR 2025	2025	Sprint interval exercise can cause transient, intense exercise-induced pain (EIP) during and several minutes after the activity. hypoalgesic strategy for high-intensity exercise, such as sprint interval exercise, against EIP is necessary to maintain exercise habituation and improve training quality/exercise performance. Preexercise caffeine supplementation, a well-known ergogenic strategy, may improve sprint performance and alleviate EIP as the hypoalgesic strategy. However, whether preexercise caffeine supplementation exhibits both the ergogenic effect on sprint interval performance and the hypoalgesic effect on intensive EIP during and several minutes after high intensity sprint interval exercise remains unknown, and thus we investigated to clarify those points. In this double-blind, randomized, crossover trial, sixteen male collegiate athletes performed 3 sets of 30-sec all-out Wingate pedaling exercises at 2-min intervals. Participants ingested mg.kg(-1) caffeine or placebo via capsules at 60 min prior to exercise. Quadriceps EIP was measured using a visual analogue scale during and up to 20 min after exercise. The results showed that caffeine did not significantly affect peak or mean power during sprint interval exercise (peak power: P = 0.196, eta(2)(p) = 0.11, mean power: P = 0.157, eta(2)(p) = 0.13; interaction). No significant interactions were also found for quadriceps EIP during (P = 0.686, eta(2)(p) 0.03) and immediately after exercise (P = 0.112, eta(2)(p) = 0.12), nor for changes in physiological responses (blood lactate and ammonia concentrations) and caffeine-induced side effects (all P > 0.05). In conclusion, caffeine had no ergogenic or hypoalgesic effects on sprint interval exercise with intensive EIP.		[Matsumura, Teppei; Sakai, Yuya; Fukuzawa, Kazushi; Hashimoto, Takeshi] Ritsumeikan Univ, Fac Sport & Hlth Sci, Kusatsu, Shiga 5258577, Japan; [Kojima, Chihiro] Ritsumeikan Univ, Res Org Sci & Technol, Kusatsu, Shiga 5258577, Japan; [Hashimoto, Takeshi] Ritsumeikan Univ, Fac Sport & Hlth Sci, Kusatsu, Shiga 5258577, Japan								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:001379880400001	51	Article; Article		
J	Volz, Alyssa; Rush, Justin L.; Bazett-Jones, David M.; Murray, Amanda M.; Norte, Grant E.								Kinesiophobia is associated with lower extremity landing biomechanics in individuals with ACL reconstruction								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				72				109	115		10.1016/j.ptsp.2025.02.006			MAR 2025	2025	Objectives: To evaluate relationships between patient-reported outcomes and lower extremity biomechanics associated with risk for second ACL injury among individuals with ACL reconstruction (ACLR). Design: Cross-sectional study. Setting: Research laboratory. Participants: 20 individuals with primary, unilateral ACLR (10 female, age = 20.1 +/- 2.0 years, median time from surgery = 29.6 [IQR = 9.1-53.3] months). Main outcome measures: Participants completed the International Knee Documentation Committee Subjective Knee Evaluation, Tampa Scale of Kinesiophobia (TSK-11), and Veterans RAND 12-Item Health Survey. Threedimensional biomechanics were evaluated at peak vertical ground reaction force (vGRF) and as peak kinematic and kinetics within the first 100 ms of landing from a drop vertical jump. Results: Higher TSK-11 scores associated with lesser hip flexion angles (r = -.723, P < .001), lesser knee flexion angles (r = .561, P = .010), and greater internal knee abduction moments (rho = -.606, P = .005) at peak vGRF. These relationships remained significant when correcting for multiple tests and controlling for time from surgery and biological sex. Conclusions: Kinesiophobia, but not self-reported knee function or health-related quality of life, is associated with aberrant landing biomechanics when the largest magnitudes of vertical force were applied to the knee. Individuals with greater kinesiophobia may adopt a stiffer landing profile with increased medial knee compartment loading, potentially increasing risk for second ACL injury.		[Volz, Alyssa] Eastern Michigan Univ, Sports Med Dept, Ypsilanti, MI USA; [Rush, Justin L.] Ohio Univ, Sch Rehabil Sci, Div Phys Therapy, Athens, OH USA; [Bazett-Jones, David M.] High Point Univ, Dept Hlth & Human Performance, High Point, NC USA; [Murray, Amanda M.] Univ Toledo, Dept Exercise & Rehabil Sci, Toledo, OH USA; [Norte, Grant E.] Univ Cent Florida, Inst Exercise Physiol & Rehabil Sci, Cognit Neuroplast & Sarcopenia CNS Lab, 12494 Univ Blvd,ED 320J, Orlando, FL 32816 USA; [Norte, Grant E.] Univ Cent Florida, Inst Exercise Physiol & Rehabil Sci, Cognit Neuroplast & Sarcopenia CNS Lab, 12494 Univ Blvd,ED 320J, Orlando, FL 32816 USA								8							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001438149300001	43	Article; Article		
J	Ott, Summer D.; Cheema, Sukhnandan K.; Axel, Holden; Aggarwal, Seema S.; Parks, Natalie R.; Gattu, Nikhil; Schatz, Philip								Concussion knowledge, attitudes, and behaviors: a comparison study of youth athletes and their parents								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				53	5			353	359		10.1080/00913847.2025.2470608			SEP 3 2025	2025	Objective: Given the rising participation in high school athletics and the concerning trend of underreporting concussions, this study aims to identify and compare factors influencing sports-related concussion (SRC) awareness and reporting among youth athletes to their parents.' Methods: Surveys were completed by 239 student-athletes (ages 13-19) and their parents, using a modified Rosenbaum Concussion Knowledge and Attitudes Survey-Student Version (RoCKAS-ST) and demographic questionnaires. Statistical analyses, including paired sample t-tests, ANOVAs, and Spearman's correlations, compared knowledge and attitudes between groups and examined demographic influences. Results: Parents showed significantly higher concussion knowledge (CKI: t(230) = 5.18, p < .001) and safer attitudes (CAI: t(230) = 10.62, p < .001) than their children. Knowledge scores varied significantly by race and socioeconomic status, with White parents scoring higher than Hispanic and African American parents (F(3,224) = 8.97, p < .001). Child knowledge scores also differed by race (F(4,223) = 3.73, p = .006) and correlated positively with parental education (r = .22, p < .001). Notably, a history of concussion significantly increased child knowledge (t(229) = -2.99, p = .002) but did not affect parental knowledge or attitudes. Conclusions: The findings highlight a critical gap in concussion knowledge and attitudes between parents and children, indicating the need for targeted educational interventions. While parents are generally more knowledgeable, variations based on race and socioeconomic status suggest disparities in access to concussion education. The study emphasizes the importance of involving both athletes and parents in educational initiatives to foster a comprehensive understanding of SRCs. Recommendations include developing culturally and socioeconomically tailored programs to enhance reporting behaviors and improve concussion management practices among young athletes.		[Ott, Summer D.; Cheema, Sukhnandan K.; Parks, Natalie R.; Gattu, Nikhil] Univ Texas Hlth Sci Ctr Houston UTHlth, McGovern Med Sch, 6400 Fannin St,Suite 1700, Houston, TX 77030 USA; [Axel, Holden] Univ Maryland, Dept Psychol, College Pk, MD USA; [Aggarwal, Seema S.] Univ Texas Hlth Sci Ctr Houston UTHlth, Cizik Sch Nursing, Houston, TX USA; [Schatz, Philip] St Josephs Univ, Dept Psychol, Philadelphia, PA USA; [Cheema, Sukhnandan K.] Univ Texas Hlth Sci Ctr Houston UTHlth, McGovern Med Sch, 6400 Fannin St,Suite 1700, Houston, TX 77030 USA								1							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001433315300001	31	Article; Article		
J	Han, Zidong; Li, Guosong; Zhang, Yufei; Memmert, Daniel; Han, Bo								Penalty kick analysis in the FIFA Men's World Cup: The rise of keeper-dependent strategy								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	3			1097	1106		10.1177/17479541251321836			JUN 2025	2025	Penalty kicks in FIFA World Cups often play a decisive role in determining match outcomes. Our study analysed 64 in-match penalties from the 2014, 2018, and 2022 FIFA Men's World Cups, focusing on player running behaviours (fluent vs. non-fluent) to investigate the prevalence of specific penalty strategies during these tournaments. Penalty strategy (keeper-independent and keeper-dependent), situational (tournament year, tournament stage, match period, match status), individual (footedness), and performance indicators (shoot direction, goalkeeper's action, outcome) were collected from the three successive World Cups. Chi-square tests were conducted to evaluate the relationships between indicators and strategies. Adjusted standardised residuals were calculated to identify significant cell contributions and support further analysis. Results: (1) Keeper-dependent strategies were used significantly more frequently in the 2022 World Cup compared to 2018 and had higher scoring rates than keeper-independent; (2) low shots were more frequent for keeper-dependent penalties; (3) goalkeepers remained in the middle more often when facing the keeper-dependent strategy. Conclusion: The use of keeper-dependent strategy increased across the 2014, 2018, and 2022 FIFA World Cups, with higher scoring rates. Players using this strategy are more inclined to shoot low, while goalkeepers tend to stay in the middle. Match period, stage, and status did not significantly impact penalty strategy, suggesting that players maintained the same strategy across different contexts. Coaches and players should prioritise mastering the keeper-dependent strategy while understanding the advantages and limitations of both penalty strategies. Flexibly adopting these strategies could contribute to enhancing penalty kick scoring rates.		[Han, Zidong; Li, Guosong; Zhang, Yufei; Han, Bo] Beijing Sport Univ, China Football Coll, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Memmert, Daniel] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Exercise Training & Sport Informat, Cologne, Germany; [Han, Bo] Beijing Sport Univ, China Football Coll, Beijing, Peoples R China								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001433247300001	41	Article; Article		
J	Revesz, Laszlo; Stengl, Violet; Kadar, Laszlo; Rado, Daniel; Safar, Sandor; Csaki, Istvan								Positional roles, match outcomes, and location: Understanding performance dynamics in second division soccer								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	3			1125	1133		10.1177/17479541251316160			JUN 2025	2025	The aim of this study was to uncover how different positional roles, match outcomes and match location impacts psychomotor performance, which was investigated among Hungarian soccer players. The sample consisted of 201 players, who were tracked across 38 matches by using GPS devices. Metrics, such as distance covered, high intensity running among others were observed. Results based on ANOVA tests and independent samples t-tests showed several significant values.According to our findings, central midfielders accounted for the greatest endurance, while wide midfielders excelled in high-speed activities during match play. Furthermore, players tended to cover more distance and perform higher intensity running during lost matches. In terms of explosive actions, they were more prevalent during matches that were played abroad. Interestingly, home-field advantage did not show a significant result in locomotor variables, yet a higher count of explosive actions was recorded during away matches.Positional roles have a significant impact on player performance, with central midfielders and wide midfielders showing different activity profiles. Match results are closely related to physical effort, with losing matches requiring more effort. Contrary to conventional views, the home field advantage is not reflected in locomotor variables, although increased explosive actions in away matches suggest adaptive behavior. These results may inform training and match preparation strategies, emphasizing the endurance of central midfielders and the high intensity actions of wide midfielders.		[Revesz, Laszlo] Eszterhazy Karoly Catholic Univ, Sport Sci Inst, Eger, Hungary; [Revesz, Laszlo; Csaki, Istvan] Eszterhazy Karoly Catholic Univ, Sport & Hlth Sci Res Grp, Eger, Hungary; [Stengl, Violet] Karol Gaspar Univ Reformed Church, Dept Psychol, Budapest, Hungary; [Kadar, Laszlo; Rado, Daniel; Safar, Sandor; Csaki, Istvan] Hungarian Univ Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Inst Sport, Budapest, Hungary; [Stengl, Violet] Becs Ut 324, H-1084 Budapest, Hungary								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001432299600001	44	Article; Article		
J	Woolmer, Elliott; Morris, Rhys; Noon, Mark; Tallis, Jason; Clarke, Neil D.; Eyre, Emma								What do athlete's really think? Athlete perceptions and attitudes towards athlete monitoring in professional soccer								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	4			1478	1490		10.1177/17479541251318846			AUG 2025	2025	Over the past 20 years, monitoring in soccer has become increasingly popular for managing training loads, preventing injuries, and optimizing performance. However, implementing sophisticated systems demands substantial investment in equipment, staff training, and athlete time. The present study aimed to evaluate player's perceptions around a comprehensive athlete monitoring programme used within a professional English men's soccer team. A mixed-methods sequential explanatory design was employed across two phases. In Phase one, 20 professional male soccer players completed a 'Modified Athlete Attitudes and Beliefs Questionnaire'. The results from Phase 1 informed Phase 2, where a subset of participants (n = 10) engaged in semi-structured interviews to gain deeper insights into their attitudes and perceptions of athlete monitoring. Analysis revealed that GPS monitoring was the most favoured tool, while power monitoring (countermovement jump; CMJ) was the least preferred. Thematic analysis of interview data identified an overall theme of importance, broken down into four key themes: education, feedback, adjustment period, and specific monitoring tools. To enhance athlete engagement, practitioners should emphasize the relevance of each monitoring strategy to the athletes' performance. Streamlining monitoring strategies and providing more comprehensive feedback can foster greater athlete buy-in and adherence to monitoring programmes.		[Woolmer, Elliott; Noon, Mark; Tallis, Jason; Eyre, Emma] Coventry Univ, Ctr Phys Act Sport & Exercise Sci, Coventry, England; [Woolmer, Elliott] St Andrews Stadium, Birmingham City Football Club, Birmingham, W Midlands, England; [Morris, Rhys] Nottingham Trent Univ, Dept Sprot Sci, Nottingham, England; [Clarke, Neil D.] Birmingham City Univ, Sch Hlth Sci, Birmingham, England; [Woolmer, Elliott] Coventry Univ, Fac Hlth & Life Sci, Coventry, England								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001437675200001	56	Article; Article		
J	Wickramasinghe, Indika; Walpitage, Dammika								Weathering the game: A comprehensive study of weather impact on ODI cricket								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	3			1196	1206		10.1177/17479541251319477			JUN 2025	2025	The game of cricket is one of the most popular team games. Its influence continues globally, with efforts by the International Cricket Council (ICC) to expand the game to other regions and make it more inclusive beyond the commonwealth countries. Weather has become an integral part of cricket because the game is played outdoors, and the weather can impact the game in many ways. Though there are numerous cricket-related studies in the literature, there is a shortage of research work focusing on the impact of the weather on the game. This study considers one-day international cricket games played during the last decade and conducts an in-depth analysis to quantify the impact of weather-related factors on batting and bowling. Furthermore, we extend the analysis to explore weather-prone cricket venues, and at the end, we accurately predict the result of a weather-affected game. According to the experimental outcomes, the nature of the weather (clear, overcast, rainy, sunny) and some of the weather-related parameters such as temperature, heat index, humidity, dewpoint, precipitation, win-speed, pressure, and the amount of light significantly impact both batting and bowling at various stages of the game. When predicting the winner of the weather-affected game, the Bagging model can predict the winner with an accuracy of 79%, recall value of 84%, and precision of 76%.		[Wickramasinghe, Indika] Prairie View A&M Univ, Prairie View, TX 77446 USA; [Walpitage, Dammika] Univ Kansas, Kansas City, KS USA; [Wickramasinghe, Indika] Prairie View A&M Univ, Prairie View, TX 77446 USA								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001428753900001	26	Article; Article		
J	Francis, John William; Kyte, Jamie Lee; Bateman, Michael; Nicholls, Scott Benjamin								The landscape of validity and reliability practices from applied performance analysts: Establishing a best practice framework								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	3			1014	1036		10.1177/17479541251317043			JUN 2025	2025	Whilst Theoretical Performance Analysts benefit from established validity and reliability frameworks, their practical application faces several challenges for Applied Performance Analysts (APAs). We explored the current practices and perceptions regarding validity and reliability by APAs to formulate best-practice recommendations. An open and closed-answer survey was completed by 175 APAs from a range of sports and countries, with responses analysed based on experience (early-career APAs vs experienced APAs). Findings reveal a desire for robust validity and reliability methods, particularly among experienced APAs. Collaborative approaches amongst APAs and other stakeholders were identified when determining performance indicators, yet decisions for live data collection were primarily made by APAs. Familiarisation and reliability processes varied, specifically the frequency of checks, with experienced APAs dedicating more time to learning new systems and checking data more frequently. Despite the existing theoretical frameworks, time constraints and personnel changes pose challenges for practical implementation, with APAs calling for an applied framework. These insights inform the development of a best-practice recommendations framework for collecting, analysing, and presenting accurate and meaningful performance analysis data in applied settings.		[Francis, John William; Bateman, Michael] Univ Worcester, Worcester WR2 6AJ, England; [Kyte, Jamie Lee] Univ Birmingham, Birmingham, England; [Nicholls, Scott Benjamin] Univ Derby, Derby, England; [Francis, John William] Univ Worcester, Worcester WR2 6AJ, England								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001428747900001	75	Article; Article		
J	Kim, Kitae; Cho, Jinkyung; Choi, Hokyung; Song, Junkyung								Bow stability and postural sway during aiming and shooting in elite compound archery								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	8			2205	2218		10.1080/14763141.2024.2446172			AUG 3 2025	2025	This study explored the effects of postural sway and bow movements on shooting accuracy in elite compound archery, differentiating pre- and post-arrow release phases. International-level compound archers executed 72 shots each in a competition-like environment. During both the aiming and shooting phases, bow displacement and tremor index were measured with a motion capture system, while postural sway indices, such as centre of pressure (COP) displacement and speed, were derived using a force platform. Two-dimensional arrow impact coordinates on the target were transformed into an accuracy index, calculated as the Euclidean distance from the target centre. In the aiming phase, smaller bow displacement and tremor, along with reduced COP displacement and speed, were associated with higher accuracy. This suggests that stable posture and bow orientation during aiming enhance shooting outcomes in compound archery. In the shooting phase after the release, bow and postural sway exhibited no differences depending on the shooting accuracy but correlated with the spatial distribution of arrow impacts. This result, combined with the reduced bow tremor in high-accuracy shots, suggests that strategies involving moderate, smooth, and consistent movement after release are more crucial for enhancing shooting accuracy in compound archery rather than simply minimising or restricting motion.		[Kim, Kitae; Choi, Hokyung] Korea Inst Sport Sci, Dept Sport Sci, Seoul, South Korea; [Cho, Jinkyung] Sungkyunkwan Univ, Coll Sport Sci, Suwon, South Korea; [Song, Junkyung] Seoul Natl Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Seoul, South Korea; [Choi, Hokyung; Song, Junkyung] Kyungpook Natl Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Daegu, South Korea; [Choi, Hokyung; Song, Junkyung] Pukyong Natl Univ, Inst Sport Dev & Promot, Pusan, South Korea; [Song, Junkyung] Seoul Natl Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Seoul, South Korea; [Song, Junkyung] Kyungpook Natl Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Daegu, South Korea; [Song, Junkyung] Pukyong Natl Univ, Inst Sport Dev & Promot, Pusan, South Korea								4							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001432584400001	25	Article; Article		
J	da Silva, Sara Mesquita; Felton, Luke; Dias, Claudia S.; Fonseca, Antonio								Mental toughness in elite adolescent football players: Exploring the role of motivational climate and coach-athlete relationships								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	4			1386	1394		10.1177/17479541251320543			AUG 2025	2025	Mental toughness is an important predictor of desirable outcomes in sport, and so an essential mental ability for young athletes to develop. However, it remains unclear how mental toughness relates to distinct-yet-interacting features of several team psychosocial contexts, such as the motivational climate and the quality of coach-athlete relationship. This cross-sectional study tested the relative roles of coach-created motivational climate and coach-athlete relationship, and their interaction, in predicting variance in athlete mental toughness. Participants were 140 male elite adolescent athletes (aged 12 to 17 years) from the youth academy of a Portuguese Premier League football club. Hierarchical linear regressions showed that athletes' perceptions of an empowering coach-created motivational climate did not account for additional variance in mental toughness beyond that accounted for by coach-athlete relationship. In contrast, coach-athlete relationship accounted for additional variance beyond an empowering coach-created motivational climate. These results suggest that the concept of quality coach-athlete relationships is embedded within good coach leadership and highlight its relevance over broader motivational climate for healthy psychological development in youth athletes. A moderation analysis revealed a significant interaction between empowering coach-created motivational climate and coach-athlete relationship, with the positive association between empowering coach-created motivational climate and mental toughness increasing as coach-athlete relationship increased in quality. This result implies that the positive effect of motivational climate on mental toughness depends on there being high quality coach-athlete relationships. Future psychological interventions aimed at increasing mental toughness in young athletes should also contemplate the quality of coach-athlete relationship.		[da Silva, Sara Mesquita; Dias, Claudia S.; Fonseca, Antonio] Univ Porto, Fac Sport, Ctr Res Educ Innovat & Intervent Sport CIFI2D, Porto, Portugal; [Felton, Luke] Univ Roehampton, Ctr Integrated Res Life & Hlth Sci, London, England; [da Silva, Sara Mesquita] Univ Porto, Fac Sport, Ctr Res Educ Innovat & Intervent Sport CIFI2D, Porto, Portugal								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001426141600001	52	Article; Article		
J	Shuaiwei, Zheng; Xiangui, Bu								The effect of coach identity leadership on athletes' experiential avoidance: the mediating role of athletes' perceptions of coach-related critical attitudes and subjective vitality								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	4			1366	1375		10.1177/17479541251314955			AUG 2025	2025	This study investigates the relationship between coach identity leadership and experiential avoidance, focusing on the mediating roles of athletes' perceptions of coach-related critical attitudes and subjective vitality. A total of 788 athletes participated, with an average age of 20.52 years and an average of 6.29 years of athletic experience. All participants were athletes competing at or above the second-tier competitive level. Correlation and regression analyses revealed that coach identity leadership was significantly negatively correlated with both athletes' perceptions of coach-related critical attitudes and experiential avoidance, while it was significantly positively correlated with subjective vitality. Additionally, athletes' perceptions of coach-related critical attitudes were significantly positively correlated with experiential avoidance, while subjective vitality was significantly negatively correlated with experiential avoidance. Further analysis showed that coach identity leadership indirectly influenced experiential avoidance through athletes' perceptions of coach-related critical attitudes and subjective vitality. These findings have significant implications for athletes, coaches, management organizations, and academic research.		[Shuaiwei, Zheng; Xiangui, Bu] Shandong Sport Univ, Sch Competit Sports, Rizhao 276800, Shandong, Peoples R China; [Xiangui, Bu] Shandong Sport Univ, Sch Competit Sports, Rizhao 276800, Shandong, Peoples R China								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001416725200001	58	Article; Article		
J	Okunuki, Takumi; Nagamoto, Hideaki; Katsutani, Hirofumi; Ichikawa, Shota; Maemichi, Toshihiro; Wakamiya, Kazuki; Yamaguchi, Ryusei; Ogawa, Yuki; Tanaka, Hirofumi; Matsumoto, Masatomo; Hoshiba, Takuma; Shinohara, Yasushi; Kumai, Tsukasa								Relationship between medial tibial stress syndrome and the adipose tissue along the posteromedial tibial border and the crural chiasma								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				53	4			299	308		10.1080/00913847.2025.2462979			JUL 4 2025	2025	ObjectivesMedial tibial stress syndrome (MTSS) is an overuse injury characterized by pain along the posteromedial tibial border. This region contains several soft tissues, including adipose tissue and the tibialis posterior and flexor digitorum longus tendons. However, few studies have investigated whether these tissues exhibit abnormalities in MTSS. This study aimed to use MRI to evaluate abnormalities in the bone marrow or soft tissues of patients with MTSS and those with a history of medial tibial pain.MethodsEighteen patients with MTSS, 20 uninjured athletes, and 17 individuals with a history of medial tibial pain underwent T1-weighted, T2-weighted, and short T1 inversion recovery imaging. The presence of bone marrow, periosteal, and peritendinous edema and abnormalities in the adipose tissue along the posteromedial tibial border were evaluated. Fisher's exact test was applied to determine the relationship between abnormalities and clinical status.ResultsPatients with MTSS exhibited abnormalities in the adipose tissue (27.3%), peritendinous edema (22.7%), bone marrow edema (22.7%), and periosteal edema (59.1%). However, the incidence of these abnormalities showed no statistically significant differences between the three groups. Athletes showed abnormalities in the bone marrow, periosteum or soft tissues, regardless of their clinical status.ConclusionVarious tissues, including the adipose tissue and peritendon along the posteromedial tibial border, may contribute to MTSS, highlighting its complex pathology. Imaging assessments are important for diagnosing MTSS and should complement physical examination and evaluation of the patient's history.		[Okunuki, Takumi] Ritsumeikan Univ, Japan Soc Promot Sci, Res Org Sci & Technol, Kusatsu, Japan; [Okunuki, Takumi; Maemichi, Toshihiro] Toyo Univ, Inst Life Innovat Studies, Kita Ku, Tokyo, Japan; [Okunuki, Takumi; Katsutani, Hirofumi; Wakamiya, Kazuki; Yamaguchi, Ryusei; Ogawa, Yuki; Tanaka, Hirofumi; Matsumoto, Masatomo] Waseda Univ, Grad Sch Sport Sci, Tokorozawa, Saitama, Japan; [Nagamoto, Hideaki; Hoshiba, Takuma; Kumai, Tsukasa] Waseda Inst Sport Sci, Tokorozawa, Saitama, Japan; [Ichikawa, Shota] St Marianna Univ, Sch Med, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Kawasaki, Japan; [Maemichi, Toshihiro; Kumai, Tsukasa] Waseda Univ, Fac Sport Sci, 2-579-15 Mikajima, Tokorozawa, Saitama 3591192, Japan; [Shinohara, Yasushi] Ritsumeikan Univ, Fac Sport & Hlth Sci, Kusatsu, Japan; [Kumai, Tsukasa] Waseda Univ, Fac Sport Sci, 2-579-15 Mikajima, Tokorozawa, Saitama 3591192, Japan								4							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001415686800001	40	Article; Article		
J	Connor, Ciaran O'; Coyle, Eddie; Mc Intyre, Martin; Delahunt, Eamonn; Thorborg, Kristian								A comparison of force generation in isometric hip adductor strength exercises: Introducing the weighted isometric Copenhagen Adduction exercise								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				72				46	52		10.1016/j.ptsp.2025.01.002			MAR 2025	2025	Objectives: To compare maximal isometric force generation between hip adductor long-lever squeeze, the Copenhagen Adduction (CA) exercise with body-mass only, and the weighted isometric CA exercise, in rugby union players. Design: Cross-sectional study. Setting: Club training facility. Participants: Forty-four male, rugby union players. Main outcome measures: Maximum isometric hip adduction squeeze strength in the long-lever testing position, in addition to maximum isometric force data in the isometric CA exercise, and the weighted isometric CA exercise with increasing load. Results: Significantly greater (p <= 0.05) torque (Nm/kg) was observed in athletes when performing a weighted isometric CA exercise with: 105% body-mass (0.22Nm/kg, +6.8%), 110% body-mass (0.44Nm/kg, +13.1%), 120% body-mass (0.80Nm/kg, +22.6%), 130% body-mass (1.16Nm/kg, +31.3%), 140% body-mass (1.58Nm/ kg, +40.8%) and 150% body mass (1.96Nm/kg, +48.3%), in comparison to the isometric CA exercise, with large effect size (ES = 1.372-5.196). Significantly greater torque was also observed when compared to the isometric hip adduction long-lever squeeze exercise, with large effect size (ES = 2.022-4.091). Twenty-nine athletes reached one maximum isometric repetition in weighted isometric CAs at either 130% body-mass (n = 16) or 140% body-mass (n = 13). Conclusions: The weighted isometric Copenhagen Adduction exercise demonstrates greater force output than the isometric CA and the long-lever squeeze.		[Connor, Ciaran O'; Delahunt, Eamonn] Univ Coll Dublin, Sch Publ Hlth Physiotherapy & Sports Sci, Dublin, Ireland; [Coyle, Eddie] Technol Univ Shannon, Dept Sport & Hlth Sci, Athlone, Westmeath, Ireland; [Mc Intyre, Martin] Sports Injuries & Sport Med Clin, Castlebar, Mayo, Ireland; [Delahunt, Eamonn] Univ Coll Dublin, Inst Sport & Hlth, Dublin, Ireland; [Thorborg, Kristian] Univ Copenhagen, Inst Clin Med, Sports Orthopaed Res Ctr Copenhagen SORC C, Dept Orthopaed Surg,Amager Hvidovre Hosp, Copenhagen, Denmark; [Connor, Ciaran O'] Univ Coll Dublin, Sch Publ Hlth Physiotherapy & Sports Sci, Dublin, Ireland								3							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001424945800001	30	Article; Article		
J	Holdback, Connor J. M.; Kelso, Richard M.; Haydon, David S.; Grimshaw, Paul N.; Pinder, Ross A.; Ibrahim, Rony								Measuring pole forces in seated shot put: a case study								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				25	2			173	184		10.1080/14763141.2025.2459770			FEB 1 2026	2026	The use of a throwing pole in seated shot put is prevalent across many athletes with varying impairment types in para-athletics and it has been shown to have a large impact on throwing technique. However, the measurement of throwing pole forces in seated shot put has not been reported previously in the research literature, leading to a considerable barrier to a better understanding and optimisation of performance. In this research, the first set of pole force measurements in seated throwing is presented, along with a comparison between two methods for such measurement: a direct load-sensing and a deflection-based method, where the latter requires considerably less specialised equipment than the former. From this, the measurement of pole forces without an instrumented pole is found to be feasible (RMSE < 10%), thus providing a simpler option for the measurement of pole forces in seated throwing. In addition, unexpected resonant pole effects (5-6 Hz) are observed during the throw which may have an interaction with the way athletes apply force to the pole. The methods and findings presented are intended to provide a platform for future research.		[Holdback, Connor J. M.; Kelso, Richard M.] Univ Adelaide, Sch Elect & Mech Engn, Adelaide, Australia; [Kelso, Richard M.] Univ South Australia, Allied Hlth & Human Performance, Adelaide, Australia; [Haydon, David S.] South Australian Sports Inst, Adelaide, Australia; [Haydon, David S.] Athlet Australia, Adelaide, Australia; [Grimshaw, Paul N.] Hamad Bin Khalifa Univ, Coll Hlth & Life Sci, Doha, Qatar; [Pinder, Ross A.] Paralympics, Performance Insights & Innovat, Adelaide, Australia; [Ibrahim, Rony] Qatar Univ, Coll Sport Sci, Doha, Qatar; [Holdback, Connor J. M.] Univ Adelaide, Sch Elect & Mech Engn, Adelaide, Australia								2							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001415714300001	13	Article; Article		
J	Glazier, Paul S.								Markerless motion capture in sport: panacea or Pandora's box?								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				25	2			165	172		10.1080/14763141.2025.2458485			FEB 1 2026	2026	This paper critically appraises the utility of markerless motion capture in the context of skill development and sports performance enhancement. If markerless motion capture is to be useful in a profiling or monitoring capacity, the amount of measurement error needs to be smaller than the amount of movement variability over iterative performance trials. Current evidence suggests that it is unlikely that any existing markerless system satisfies this requirement. The resolution of this issue would, in principle, enable technical errors to be more easily pinpointed and performance variation to be better explained. However, decomposing movement variability into its functional and dysfunctional components is not only a nontrivial undertaking for most practitioners, the practical consequences of doing so are limited because synergies are self-organising entities and any attempt to micro-manage their constituent degrees of freedom will likely have deleterious effects on performance. Biomechanical measurements technologies, including markerless motion capture, may be best used to support search strategies employed by coaches and athletes.		[Glazier, Paul S.] Univ Plymouth, Fac Hlth, Plymouth, England; [Glazier, Paul S.] Univ Plymouth, Fac Hlth, Plymouth, England								7							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001414380000001	31	Article; Article		
J	Connor, Ciaran O'; Renaghan, Eric; Bennett, Adam; Ferrer, Luis; Damodaran, Raina; Geraghty, Patrick; Feigenbaum, Luis A.								Hip adduction and abduction strength values in NCAA Division I American football players: Strength values and a comparison across position groups								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				72				32	38		10.1016/j.ptsp.2025.01.004			MAR 2025	2025	Objectives: To report hip adduction, abduction, and adduction:abduction strength ratio values in NCAA Division I American football players, and to compare strength values across position groups. Design: Cross-sectional study. Setting: University training facility. Participants: 85 male football players. Main outcome measures: Isometric hip adduction and abduction strength values in the 0 degrees hip-flexion long-lever and 0 degrees hip-flexion short-lever testing positions, using a ForceFrame. Results: Hip strength values are presented across two testing positions. ANOVA revealed significant differences (p <= 0.05) in hip strength between position groups, with medium-to-large effect size (n(2) = 0.116-0.284). Skill- position and mid-position players demonstrated significantly greater hip adduction and abduction relative strength in both testing positions, when compared to lineman-position players. In addition, skill-position and mid-position players demonstrated significantly greater hip adduction:abduction strength ratios (0.19-0.20, 24-25%) in the long-lever testing position, when compared to lineman-position players, with large effect size (n(2) = 0.178). No significant differences in strength were observed between skill-position and mid-position players. Hip adduction:abduction strength ratios ranged from 0.68 to 0.88 in the long-lever testing position and 1.05 to 1.09 in the short-lever testing position. Conclusion: Significant differences in relative strength exist between position groups of NCAA Division-I football players, in hip adduction, abduction and adduction:abduction ratio.		[Connor, Ciaran O'] Univ Coll Dublin, Sch Publ Hlth Physiotherapy & Sports Sci, Dublin, Ireland; [Renaghan, Eric; Ferrer, Luis; Damodaran, Raina; Geraghty, Patrick; Feigenbaum, Luis A.] Univ Miami, Dept Athlet Sports Sci, Miami, FL 33146 USA; [Bennett, Adam] Univ Miami, Dept Athlet, Athlet Training, Miami, FL 33146 USA; [Feigenbaum, Luis A.] Univ Miami, Miller Sch Med, Dept Phys Therapy, Miami, FL 33146 USA; [Connor, Ciaran O'] Donecoy, Templeboy F91 W884, Co Sligo, Ireland								1							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001423972300001	35	Article; Article		
J	Goorevich, Anna; Schneider, Jekaterina; Boucher, Courtney; Lavoi, Nicole M.								Assessing gender essentialist beliefs towards youth athletes: Development and preliminary validation of the gender essentialist beliefs towards girls in sport scale (GEGS)								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	2			540	553		10.1177/17479541241307935			APR 2025	2025	Despite evidence refuting the legitimacy of inherent and unchanging qualities and the existence of a gender sport continuum, a prevailing gender essentialist ideology persists among coaches. This ideology perpetuates the belief in a binary, hierarchical, and static structure of gender, which imparts higher cultural and social values to men's sport compared to women's and impacts girls' development, participation, and enjoyment in sport. Some interventions have been proposed to address this issue; however, at present, no validated scale exists to assess intervention outcomes related to coaches' gender essentialist beliefs. The aim of the current study was therefore to develop and validate the Gender Essentialist Beliefs Towards Girls in Sport Scale (GEGS), to assess gender essentialism among sport coaches. Content validity was judged by a panel of experts (N = 4) and through interviews with coaches (N = 5) across various sports and experience levels. Following initial item iteration, the GEGS was assessed with 633 coaches for reliability and validity. The final scale comprised 20 items and showed good reliability (internal consistency, test-retest reliability, inter-item and item-total correlations), validity (convergent validity, differentiation between known groups), and factor structure. We also found partial support for the discriminant validity of the GEGS. Overall, the GEGS provides a valuable tool for addressing gender essentialism in sport coaching and informing coach education programs. Future research should further validate the scale and explore its sensitivity to change in gender essentialist beliefs over time.		[Goorevich, Anna; Boucher, Courtney; Lavoi, Nicole M.] Univ Minnesota, Tucker Ctr Res Girls & Women Sport, 1900 Univ Ave SE, Minneapolis, MN 55455 USA; [Schneider, Jekaterina] Univ West England, Coll Hlth Sci & Soc, Ctr Appearance Res, Sch Social Sci, Bristol, England; [Goorevich, Anna] Univ Minnesota, Tucker Ctr Res Girls & Women Sport, 1900 Univ Ave SE, Minneapolis, MN 55455 USA								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001411431100001	54	Article; Article		
J	Zorlular, Ali; Kafa, Nihan; Guzel, Nevin Atalay								Effects of 6-Week Whole-Body Vibration Training on Isokinetic Trunk Muscle Strength, Postural Stability, and Jump Performance in Female Adults - A Randomized Controlled Trial								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				96	3			523	531		10.1080/02701367.2024.2447502			JUL 3 2025	2025	Current evidence regarding the benefits of Whole-Body Vibration (WBV) on postural stability and jump performance remains inconsistent and to the best of our knowledge, there is no study comparing the effectiveness of different vibration frequencies on trunk muscle strength. This study was conducted to determine the effect of whole-body vibration training with different vibration frequency on isokinetic trunk muscle strength, postural stability and jump performance in physically inactive and minimally active healthy female adults. Forty-five females were randomly assigned to 45 hz WBV group (n = 15), 25 hz WBV (n = 15) group and control exercise group without WBV (0 hz group, n = 15). Individuals in each group completed a 6-week trunk-based exercise program at the specified vibration frequency. Concentric and eccentric strength of trunk flexor and extensor muscles, postural stability and jump performance were assessed before and after the training period. There were significant group by time interactions in concentric and eccentric trunk muscle strength. Interaction effects showed no significant differences in postural stability and vertical jump performance. However, post hoc analyses revealed that all three groups significantly improved vertical jump height. These findings suggest that WBV combined with exercise training were effective to enhance the strength of trunk muscles in physically inactive and minimally active women. Nevertheless, WBV exercise training performed in this study had no significant impact on postural stability and jump performance.Clinical Trials Number: NCT05014958 (Pre-registired)		[Zorlular, Ali] Cukurova Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Phys Therapy & Rehabil, Balcali Kampusu, TR-01330 Saricam, Turkiye; [Kafa, Nihan; Guzel, Nevin Atalay] Gazi Univ, Ankara, Turkiye; [Zorlular, Ali] Cukurova Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Phys Therapy & Rehabil, Balcali Kampusu, TR-01330 Saricam, Turkiye								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001410287200001	47	Article; Article		
J	Zahradnik, David; Hamill, Joseph; Plesek, Jan; Blaschova, Denisa; Burda, Michal; Nieminen, Miika; Casula, Victor; Farana, Roman; Uchytil, Jaroslav; Slovak, Lukas; Skypala, Jiri; Jandacka, Daniel								Association between T2 relaxation time and biomechanical loading of the anterior cruciate ligament in healthy individuals								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				25	2			265	280		10.1080/14763141.2025.2458475			FEB 1 2026	2026	Anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) injury is common in sports that include 'change in direction' tasks. The aim of the current study was to determine the association between T2 relaxation time (an indicator of ACL integrity) of the distal portion of the ACL sub-region, biomechanical loading factors of the ACL, sex, and sport status of the participants. Participants between 18 to 35 years performed unanticipated 'change in direction' trials at their maximal self-preferred speed. The maximal knee flexion angle and the valgus moment of the right knee during the weight acceptance phase were analysed. MRI data (T2 relaxation time) of the ACL was also collected. Among the independent variables involved in the linear regression model, the association of the valgus moment and sex were statistically significant (p = 0.01 and p = 0.001 respectively). In conclusion, the main finding of the study is that higher T2 was significantly associated with a higher valgus moment as acute response to the 'change in direction' tasks. New sentence: In conclusion, the main finding of the study is that higher T2 was significantly associated with a higher valgus moment during 'change in direction' tasks.		[Zahradnik, David; Hamill, Joseph; Plesek, Jan; Blaschova, Denisa; Farana, Roman; Uchytil, Jaroslav; Slovak, Lukas; Skypala, Jiri; Jandacka, Daniel] Univ Ostrava, Human Mot Diagnost Ctr, Dept Human Movement Studies, Ostrava, Czech Republic; [Hamill, Joseph] Univ Massachusetts, Dept Kinesiol, Amherst, MA USA; [Burda, Michal] Univ Ostrava, Inst Res & Applicat Fuzzy Modeling, Ostrava, Czech Republic; [Nieminen, Miika; Casula, Victor] Univ Oulu, Fac Med, Res Unit Hlth Sci & Technol, Oulu, Finland; [Nieminen, Miika] Oulu Univ Hosp, Dept Diagnost Radiol, Oulu, Finland; [Zahradnik, David] Univ Ostrava, Human Mot Diagnost Ctr, Dept Human Movement Studies, Ostrava, Czech Republic								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001467441500001	50	Article; Article		
J	Bird, Stephen P.; Parsons-Smith, Renee L.; King, Rachel; Terry, Peter C.								Wellness, Mood, Sleep, and Performance in a Women's National Basketball Team during International Competition								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				96				163	175		10.5114/jhk/200117			FEB 2025	2025	The purposes of this study were to examine relationships between athlete self-report measures of wellness, mood, sleep, and performance indicators of a women's national basketball team during international competition (2023 FIBA Women's Asia Cup). Physical and psychological wellness were recorded using a cloud-based athlete management system, mood was assessed using the 24-item Brunel Mood Scale (BRUMS), and performance was evaluated by player self-assessment and the National Basketball Association's (NBA) player efficiency score. Wellness indicators were rated at or either side of a normal rating (i.e., 3 on a 1-5 scale), as was self-rated performance. Mean sleep duration was 8:13 hours (+/- 1:13), with large individual differences in retiring time and sleep duration. Mood scores showed a general pattern of declining tension and vigour over the 14-day assessment period. Mood subscales predicted 49.0% of variance in wellbeing scores, 46.8% of variance in preparedness scores, and 26.0% of variance in player efficiency scores. Wellbeing indicators predicted 34.9% of self-rated performance variance and mood subscale scores predicted 27.7% of variance. These findings suggest that female athletes may be particularly susceptible to mood disturbances impacting performance and highlight the potential for targeted interventions, including stress management and sleep optimization, to mitigate these stressors and support mental wellbeing. These strategies may enhance both psychological health and athletic performance during the high stress demands associated with international competition.		[Bird, Stephen P.] Univ Southern Queensland, Sch Hlth & Med Sci, Ipswich, Australia; [Parsons-Smith, Renee L.; Terry, Peter C.] Univ Southern Queensland, Sch Psychol & Wellbeing, Ipswich, Australia; [King, Rachel] Univ Southern Queensland, Sch Math Phys & Comp, Toowoomba, Australia; [Bird, Stephen P.; Terry, Peter C.] Univ Southern Queensland, Ctr Hlth Res, Toowoomba, Australia; [Bird, Stephen P.] Univ Southern Queensland, Sch Hlth & Med Sci, Ipswich, Australia; [Bird, Stephen P.] Univ Southern Queensland, Ctr Hlth Res, Toowoomba, Australia								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:001483053700011	41	Article; Article		
J	Barrera-Dominguez, Francisco J.; Jones, Paul A.; Almagro, Bartolome J.; Molina-Lopez, Jorge								Influence of Functional Movement, Jumping Ability and Linear Speed on Change of Direction Speed in Female Basketball Players: Novel vs. Traditional Approaches								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				96				37	51		10.5114/jhk/196780			FEB 2025	2025	There is extensive discourse surrounding the factors influencing performance in change of direction (COD) actions in basketball, given the wide range of tests and methods that exist in the scientific literature for assessing this ability. This study analysed and compared relationships between functional movement, jumping and linear speed performance using two distinct methods of measuring COD performance in female basketball players, while also distinguishing between cut-off angles. Fifty female semi-professional basketball players (age: 23.7 +/- 3.81 years, body height: 175.5 +/- 7.69 cm; body mass: 64.4 +/- 7.88 kg) participated in the assessment, involving various performance and COD tests. COD tests were categorised for each method and angulation into "low performance" and "high performance" groups, facilitating a Bayesian comparative analysis. For the traditional method of measurement (execution time) vertical (ES >= 0.66; BF10 >= 3.50) and horizontal (ES >= 0.97; BF10 >= 44.4) variables exhibited significant differences between performance groups across all cutting angles, with faster players performing better in all tests. For the novel approach (COD Deficit) differences between performance groups were only found for horizontal variables, while these differences disappeared for vertical variables. These findings suggest the need for caution when considering the determinants of COD performance, as these relationships are directly dependent on the COD method used. Therefore, female basketball coaches are encouraged to adopt the COD Deficit for assessing this ability, as it isolates COD from other abilities.		[Barrera-Dominguez, Francisco J.; Almagro, Bartolome J.; Molina-Lopez, Jorge] Univ Huelva, Fac Educ Psychol & Sport Sci, COIDESO, Huelva, Spain; [Jones, Paul A.] Univ Salford, Directorate Sport Exercise & Physiotherapy, Salford, Greater Manches, England; [Barrera-Dominguez, Francisco J.] Univ Huelva, Fac Educ Psychol & Sport Sci, COIDESO, Huelva, Spain								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:001483053700002	46	Article; Article		
J	Li, Ming; Kim, Youngsuk; Zhu, Bin; Zhang, Ze; Kim, Sukwon								Impact of Playing Experience on the Relationship between Basketball Release Velocity and Muscle Contraction Strength in Mid-and Long-Distance Jump Shots								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				96				97	107		10.5114/jhk/196544			FEB 2025	2025	This study aimed to explore the impact of playing experience on vertical release velocity (VV) and horizontal release velocity (HV) during mid-and long-distance jump shots, and the relationships among VV, HV, and the contraction intensity levels of primary muscles. The study utilized a cross-sectional experimental design, with 30 participants completing three effective jump shots at distances of 4.8 m and 6.75 m. Data were collected using a 3D motion capture system and an electromyography (EMG) recording system, with velocity-time data extracted to determine VV and HV, and EMG data analyzed using wavelet analysis. A two-factor mixed ANOVA was used to compare differences in VV and HV under different conditions, and Spearman correlation analysis was employed to explore relationships among VV, HV, and the energy values of major muscle frequency bands. The results indicated that playing experience significantly improved VV (p < 0.001). At mid-range distances, experienced athletes' VV positively correlated with the low frequency band (r = 0.479, p = 0.048) and near frequency band (r = 0.539, p = 0.038) energy values of the triceps brachii (TB), as well as the high frequency band (r = 0.679, p = 0.005) and mid-high frequency band (r = 0.571, p = 0.026) energy values of the anterior deltoid (AD). At long-range distances, VV negatively correlated with the low frequency band energy values of the flexor carpi radialis (r = -0.5, p = 0.045), the high frequency band of TB (r = -0.564, p = 0.028), and the near frequency band of AD (r = -0.496, p = 0.046). These findings suggest that playing experience significantly alters VV during jump shots, and this alteration may be associated with the overall activity of the TB, the explosive activity of the AD, and the baseline activity of the rectus femoris.		[Li, Ming] Yangtze Univ, Coll Educ & Sports Sci, Jingzhou, Peoples R China; [Kim, Youngsuk; Zhu, Bin; Zhang, Ze; Kim, Sukwon] Jeonbuk Natl Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Jeonju, South Korea; [Kim, Sukwon] Jeonbuk Natl Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Jeonju, South Korea								6							Sport Sciences	WOS:001483053700006	30	Article; Article		
J	Suarez-Balsera, Carlos; Ferioli, Davide; Marin-Cascales, Elena; Rago, Vincenzo; Spyrou, Konstantinos; Martinez-Serrano, Antonio; Di Mauro, Debora; Marin, Jose Manuel; Alcaraz, Pedro E.; Freitas, Tomas T.								Profiling the Countermovement Jump Characteristics of Basketball Players across Competitive Levels and Playing Positions								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				96				83	95		10.5114/jhk/196138			FEB 2025	2025	This study aimed to examine different force-time derived variables of the countermovement jump (CMJ) in adult, male basketball players of different competitive levels and playing positions. At the beginning of the pre-season, 78 players from two competitive levels (professional and semi-professional) completed a CMJ test on a force plate. Linear mixed models were used to compare a total of 21 metrics across competitive levels and playing positions. Professional players jumped significantly higher (p = 0.022) than semi-professionals. No differences were observed in the variables related to the eccentric phase. Four concentric phase variables (i.e., absolute peak force [p < 0.001], absolute and relative peak power [p < 0.001 and p = 0.037, respectively] and peak velocity [p = 0.036]) were superior in professional in comparison to semiprofessional players. Regarding the playing position, centers presented significantly larger deceleration phase duration than guards (p = 0.042). Centers reported higher absolute eccentric peak force than guards (p = 0.013). In the concentric phase, centers reported larger concentric duration than forwards (p = 0.011) and guards (p = 0.002). Guards produced lower absolute peak force compared to centers (p = 0.004) and forwards (p = 0.025). Furthermore, centers were characterized by lower levels of relative peak force (p = 0.013), but higher levels of absolute peak power compared to guards (p = 0.003). In conclusion, jump height, and only four concentric-phase metrics were found to discriminate between competitive levels. Additionally, the eccentric deceleration phase duration, absolute eccentric peak force, concentric duration, absolute and relative peak force and absolute peak power discriminated between playing positions. Practitioners should conduct thorough CMJ analyses and consider these metrics from a performance and talent identification perspective.		[Suarez-Balsera, Carlos; Marin-Cascales, Elena; Spyrou, Konstantinos; Martinez-Serrano, Antonio; Alcaraz, Pedro E.; Freitas, Tomas T.] UCAM Catholic Univ Murcia, UCAM Res Ctr High Performance Sport, Murcia, Spain; [Ferioli, Davide; Di Mauro, Debora] Univ Messina, Dept Biomed Sci Dent Sci & Morpho Funct Imaging, Messina, Italy; [Marin-Cascales, Elena; Spyrou, Konstantinos; Martinez-Serrano, Antonio; Alcaraz, Pedro E.; Freitas, Tomas T.] Catholic Univ Murcia, Fac Sport, Murcia, Spain; [Marin-Cascales, Elena; Spyrou, Konstantinos; Martinez-Serrano, Antonio; Alcaraz, Pedro E.; Freitas, Tomas T.] SCS Strength & Conditioning Soc, Murcia, Spain; [Rago, Vincenzo] Univ Europeia, Fac Hlth & Sports Sci, Lisbon, Portugal; [Marin, Jose Manuel] UCAM Catholic Univ Murcia, UCAM CB, Murcia, Spain; [Freitas, Tomas T.] NAR Nucleus High Performance Sport, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Ferioli, Davide] Univ Messina, Dept Biomed Sci Dent Sci & Morpho Funct Imaging, Messina, Italy								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:001483053700005	31	Article; Article		
J	Wong, Sing; Lim, Julian; McErlain-Naylor, Stuart A.; Scanlan, Aaron; Goggins, Luke; Ahmun, Rob; Comfort, Paul; Weldon, Anthony								Strength and Conditioning for Cricket Wicketkeeping: A Narrative Review								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				47	1			8	19		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000847			FEB 2025	2025	A cricket wicketkeeper is a player on the fielding team positioned behind the stumps. They adopt a crouching position upon ball delivery from the bowler to take catches, execute stumpings, and limit extra runs because of byes. Wicketkeepers are advised to conduct a combination of technical and strength and conditioning training to support the dynamic actions required in matches and reduce injury risk. There is evidence on wicketkeepers concerning match-play demands, physical development, and injury risk reduction; however, this research is limited compared with other positions. This research should be consolidated to provide meaningful and informed guidance for planning, designing, implementing, and evaluating strength and conditioning programs. Therefore, this review presents a needs analysis, normative data, and evidence-informed guidance for wicketkeepers. This information can be used by strength and conditioning coaches and the athlete support team to inform decisions regarding training programs. This review recommends that strength and conditioning programs accommodate the demands of specific match formats and individual physical, physiological, and technical needs of wicketkeepers. The key physical characteristics underpinning wicketkeeping performance such as multidirectional speed, change-of-direction ability, lower-limb power, and aerobic fitness should be considered to ensure the specificity of training programs.		[Wong, Sing] Technol & Higher Educ Inst Hong Kong THEi, Dept Sports & Recreat, Chai Wan, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [Wong, Sing] Cricket Hong Kong, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [Lim, Julian] Natl Youth Sports Inst, Singapore, Singapore; [McErlain-Naylor, Stuart A.] Loughborough Univ, Sch Sport Exercise & Hlth Sci, Loughborough, England; [Scanlan, Aaron] Cent Queensland Univ, Sch Hlth Med & Appl Sci, Rockhampton, Qld, Australia; [Goggins, Luke; Ahmun, Rob] Univ Loughborough, ECB Natl Cricket Performance Ctr, Loughborough, England; [Comfort, Paul] Univ Salford, Human Performance Lab, Directorate Psychol & Sport, Salford, England; [Comfort, Paul] Edith Cowan Univ, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, Joondalup, WA, Australia; [Comfort, Paul] Leeds Beckett Univ, Inst Sport Phys Act & Leisure, Carnegie Sch Sport, Leeds, England; [Weldon, Anthony] Birmingham City Univ, Ctr Life & Sport Sci C LaSS, Birmingham, England; [Weldon, Anthony] Aston Villa Football Club, Birmingham, England; [Wong, Sing] Technol & Higher Educ Inst Hong Kong THEi, Dept Sports & Recreat, Chai Wan, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [Wong, Sing] Cricket Hong Kong, Hong Kong, Peoples R China								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001413307200009	65	Article; Article		
J	Makino, Mizuki; Nakahara, Takanori; Nagakubo, Kentaro; Ando, Yuka; Tauchi, Kenji								Relationship between volleyball spike jump height and lower limb kinetics is stronger for orientation leg than rear leg								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	8			2406	2416		10.1080/14763141.2025.2458491			AUG 3 2025	2025	The orientation and rear legs have different roles in the spike jump (SPJ) in volleyball, yet the relationship between the jump height and kinetics of each leg remains underexplored. We aimed to clarify the relationships between jump height and kinetics of the orientation and rear legs in the SPJ. This study included 18 female college volleyball players. The experimental trial comprised an SPJ with a three-step run-up. The motion and ground reaction forces were measured using eight high-speed cameras and two force plates. Kinetic variables from the last foot contact to take-off were calculated, and their relationship with jumping height was examined. The results showed that the peak joint torques for ankle plantar flexion (r = 0.562, p = 0.015), hip extension (r = 0.684, p = 0.002), and hip abduction (r = 0.670, p = 0.002) of the orientation leg were significantly positively correlated with jump height. No significant correlations were found for the rear leg, except for the hip abduction torque (r = 0.538, p = 0.021). These findings indicate that interindividual difference in jump height are more strongly related to the kinetics of the orientation leg than those of the rear leg after final rear foot contact.		[Makino, Mizuki] Japan Inst Sports Sci, Dept Sport Sci & Res, Tokyo, Japan; [Nakahara, Takanori; Nagakubo, Kentaro; Tauchi, Kenji] Chukyo Univ, Sch Hlth & Sport Sci, Nagoya, Aichi, Japan; [Nagakubo, Kentaro] Nippon Sport Sci Univ, Grad Sch Hlth & Sport Sci, Tokyo, Japan; [Ando, Yuka] Chukyo Univ, Grad Sch Hlth & Sport Sci, Nagoya, Aichi, Japan; [Makino, Mizuki] Japan Inst Sports Sci, Dept Sport Sci & Res, Tokyo, Japan								4							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001409570700001	29	Article; Article		
J	Leite, Isaura; Gomez-Landero, Luis Arturo; Vilas-Boas, Joao Paulo; Goethel, Marcio; Mochizuki, Luis; Conceicao, Filipe								The interplay between individual capacities and pair performance according to the experience in Acrobatic Gymnastics								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	8			2362	2375		10.1080/14763141.2025.2458483			AUG 3 2025	2025	The interplay between individual capacities and group performance provides insights for different tasks and contexts. So far, little is known about the individual capacities of base and top gymnasts and mechanical efficiency during pair tasks of Acrobatic Gymnastics. This work aims to investigate: (1) the effect of the pair experience in the mechanical efficiency during a pair task; (2) the effect of the individual training experience in the gymnasts' individual capacities, and (3) the contribution of individual capacities and pair mechanical efficiency to the performance of a partner-assisted flight task. Twelve pairs from national first division and elite levels performed a pair task and individual tests and were divided into pair and individual experience levels. Results showed that experience improves the pair task efficiency and individual performances, with distinct implications for each role. Mechanical efficiency is crucial for partner-assisted flight, but the individual capacities of base and top gymnasts also have an important contribution, followed by mass differences, and the pair experience. Coaches should focus on understanding how different experienced gymnasts can combine their capacities to collaborate efficiently. Also, considering the predictable increase in top gymnast's mass over time, to improve technical efficiency and individual physical condition.		[Leite, Isaura; Vilas-Boas, Joao Paulo; Goethel, Marcio; Conceicao, Filipe] Univ Porto, Ctr Res Educ Innovat & Intervent Sport CIFI2D, Porto, Portugal; [Leite, Isaura; Vilas-Boas, Joao Paulo; Goethel, Marcio; Conceicao, Filipe] Univ Porto, Porto Biomech Lab LABIOMEP, Porto, Portugal; [Gomez-Landero, Luis Arturo] Univ Pablo Olavide, Seville, Spain; [Mochizuki, Luis] Univ Sao Paulo, Sch Arts Sci & Humanities, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Leite, Isaura] Univ Porto, Ctr Res Educ Innovat & Intervent Sport CIFI2D, Porto, Portugal; [Leite, Isaura] Univ Porto, Porto Biomech Lab LABIOMEP, Porto, Portugal								3							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001409561000001	41	Article; Article		
J	Galantine, Paul; Bertin, Denis; Nicol, Caroline; Duche, Pascale; Hays, Arnaud								Associations between force-velocity-power profile in sprinting and ballistic lower limb tests in adolescent elite footballers								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	9			2466	2480		10.1080/14763141.2025.2458898			SEP 2 2025	2025	This study investigated the relationships between performance and force-velocity (F-v) parameters obtained from a ballistic lower limb (BLL) and a 30-m sprint test in 24 adolescent elite footballers (13.2-15.1 years old). In the BLL test, normal ground reaction force and velocity were recorded by two force plates and a linear encoder, respectively, and take-off velocity (vto) at 0% of body mass was considered as performance. In the 30-m sprint test, raw velocity-time data were measured using a radar, and 5, 10 and 30 m sprint times using a timing gate system. Theoretical maximal force (F-0), velocity (v(0)) and power (P-max) were determined using the Samozino's method. All sprint times were significantly correlated with vto (p = 0.004 to p < 0.001; -0.57 to -0.72), but no significant correlation was found between the respective F-v parameters ;(p = 0.152 to 0.913). As both tests assess explosive performance, players who can produce a high vto will also perform best in short sprints. However, the F-v discrepancies highlight the complementarity of these tests: the BLL test minimises the coordination and technical influences that can affect sprint performance in adolescents.		[Galantine, Paul; Bertin, Denis; Nicol, Caroline] Aix Marseille Univ, Sport Sci, CNRS, ISM, Marseille, France; [Galantine, Paul; Bertin, Denis; Duche, Pascale; Hays, Arnaud] Aix Marseille Univ, Univ Toulon, Inst Paoli Calmettes, HIPE Human Lab,CNRS,Sport Sci, Marseille, France; [Galantine, Paul; Duche, Pascale] Univ Toulon & Var, Sport Sci, J AP2S, Toulon, France; [Galantine, Paul] Aix Marseille Univ, Sport Sci, CNRS, ISM, Marseille, France; [Galantine, Paul] Aix Marseille Univ, Univ Toulon, Inst Paoli Calmettes, HIPE Human Lab,CNRS,Sport Sci, Marseille, France; [Galantine, Paul] Univ Toulon & Var, Sport Sci, J AP2S, Toulon, France								2							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001411215000001	59	Article; Article		
J	Chen, Zhili; Gu, Zhengqiu; Lyu, Mengde; Bishop, Chris; Harper, Damian J.; Ainsworth, Barbara; Dai, Boyi; Li, Yongming								Relationships between knee and ankle strength and horizontal deceleration performance at different sprint distances in multi-directional sports athletes								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	8			2328	2341		10.1080/14763141.2025.2458477			AUG 3 2025	2025	The aim of this study was to investigate the relationships between knee and ankle strength and horizontal deceleration performance following different sprint distances. Fifty-seven (n = 41male, n = 16 female) youth team-sports athletes completed: a) 5-m and 10-m horizontal deceleration ability (HDA) tests; b) concentric (60 degrees/s, 180 degrees/s) and eccentric (30 degrees/s) relative peak torque (PT) measurements of the knee extensor (KE) and flexor (KF) muscles and the ankle plantarflexion (APF) and dorsiflexion (ADF) muscles in an isokinetic dynamometer. Pearson's correlation coefficients revealed that concentric at 60 degrees/s and eccentric at 30 degrees/s KE were mostly related to deceleration performance both in HDA(5-m )(r = -0.50 to -0.61, p < 0.05) and HDA10-m tests (r = -0.50 to -0.63, p < 0.05). Moreover, a significant correlation was observed between concentric APF and average deceleration (DECavg) measured from HDA(5-m) test in both the dominant leg (DL) and non-dominant leg (NDL) (r = -0.52 to -0.53, p < 0.05), but not to 10-m horizontal deceleration performance. The current results indicate that deceleration performance varies in its demands on knee and ankle strength across different sprint distances. Athletes who frequently decelerate over short distances should focus not only on strengthening their knee strength but also on prioritising ankle strength.		[Chen, Zhili; Gu, Zhengqiu; Lyu, Mengde; Li, Yongming] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Athlet Performance, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Bishop, Chris] Middlesex Univ, London Sport Inst, Fac Sci & Technol, London, England; [Harper, Damian J.] Univ Cent Lancashire, Inst Coaching & Performance, Sch Hlth Social Work & Sport, Preston, England; [Ainsworth, Barbara] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Exercise & Hlth, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Dai, Boyi] UNIV VERMONT, Dept Rehabil & Movement Sci, BURLINGTON, IA USA; [Li, Yongming] China Inst Sport Sci, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Li, Yongming] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Athlet Performance, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Li, Yongming] China Inst Sport Sci, Beijing, Peoples R China								3							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001411245600001	37	Article; Article		
J	Joffe, Shaun A.; Chavda, Shyam; Gilham, Jesse; Sandercock, Gavin R. H.; Tallent, Jamie								A comparison of maximal isometric force in the first pull, transition and second pull of the clean and their contribution to predict performance in national and international level weightlifters								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				25	2			281	297		10.1080/14763141.2025.2458478			FEB 1 2026	2026	This study aimed to examine differences in isometric peak force (PF) at the start of the first pull, transition, and second pull phases of the clean, and determine their contribution in explaining the variance in snatch and clean & jerk (C&J) performance. Thirty-one national and international level male and female weightlifters participated. Isometric start position pull (ISPP), isometric transition position pull (ITPP), and isometric mid-thigh pull (IMTP) PF, along with competition performance, were analysed both in absolute and allometrically scaled terms. Partial Least Squares Regression identified a single latent variable explaining 81.4% of the variance in Snatch and 79.6% in C&J. ISPP PF alone significantly contributed to explaining the variance the snatch and C&J. For allometrically scaled values, a single latent variable accounted for and 62.8% variance in Snatch and 60.7% of the variance in C&J, with ISPP PF significantly contributing to the Snatch and approached significance for C&J (p = 0.056). These results underscore the importance of evaluating maximal force in the initial lift phase and suggest that training to enhance strength in this phase may be crucial for improving weightlifting performance.		[Joffe, Shaun A.; Gilham, Jesse] St Marys Univ, Fac Sport Technol & Hlth Sci, London, England; [Chavda, Shyam] Middlesex Univ, London Sport Inst, London, England; [Chavda, Shyam] Univ Essex, Sch Sport Rehabil & Exercise Sci, Colchester, England; [Sandercock, Gavin R. H.; Tallent, Jamie] Univ Essex, Sch Sport Rehabil & Exercise Sci, Colchester, England; [Tallent, Jamie] Monash Univ, Fac Med Nursing & Hlth Sci, Sch Primary & Allied Hlth Care, Dept Physiotherapy, Melbourne, Australia; [Joffe, Shaun A.] St Marys Univ, Fac Sport Technol & Hlth Sci, London, England								3							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001409557700001	51	Article; Article		
J	Harry-Leite, Pedro; Paquete, Manuel; Araujo, Goncalo; Oliveira, Daniel; Fraiz, Jose Antonio; Ribeiro, Fernando								Effects of combined kinesiology taping and proprioceptive training on balance and proprioception in athletes with chronic ankle instability: A randomized controlled trial								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				77				113	122		10.1016/j.ptsp.2025.12.005			JAN 2026	2026	Objectives: To investigate if combining kinesiology taping (KT) with proprioceptive training improves proprioception and balance in athletes with CAI. We hypothesized that adding KT would be more effective than proprioceptive training alone. Design: This was a two-group randomized controlled study in which both groups underwent a six-week intervention consisting of three sessions per week. Setting: Sports/clinical training environment. Participants: Fifty amateur athletes (mean age: 20.7 +/- 3.6 years) with CAI. Main outcome measures: Ankle joint position sense (proprioception), static balance (Balance Error Scoring System - BESS), and dynamic balance (Y-Balance Test). Results: At baseline, no significant differences were found between groups. Following the six-week intervention (3 sessions/week), both groups showed significant improvements (p < 0.05). However, no significant between-group differences were observed for ankle position sense (MD: -0.5 degrees [95 % CI: -1.6, 0.6], p = 0.347), Y-Balance Test (MD: 0.4 [95 % CI: -3.3, 4.1], p = 0.831), or BESS scores (MD: -2.0 [95 % CI: -5.0, 1.1], p = 0.207), indicating similar outcomes for both interventions. Conclusions: A six-week proprioceptive program enhanced proprioception and balance in CAI athletes, but KT offered no additional benefit. Findings confirm proprioceptive exercise as a key intervention and question KT's functional value in this context.		[Harry-Leite, Pedro; Paquete, Manuel] Piaget Res Ctr Ecol Human Dev, INSIGHT, Almada, Portugal; [Araujo, Goncalo; Oliveira, Daniel] Jean Piaget Higher Sch Hlth Vila Nova De Gaia, Vila Nova De Gaia, Portugal; [Fraiz, Jose Antonio] Univ Vigo, Fac Business Sci & Tourism, Vigo, Spain; [Ribeiro, Fernando] Univ Aveiro, Inst Biomed IBiMED, Sch Hlth Sci, Aveiro, Portugal; [Harry-Leite, Pedro] Piaget Res Ctr Ecol Human Dev, INSIGHT, Almada, Portugal								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001659195100001	77	Article; Article		
J	Yamakawa, Keisuke Kobayashi; Homoto, Kenta; Nakashima, Motomu; Shimojo, Hirofumi; Nakazono, Yusaku; Sengoku, Yasuo; Takagi, Hideki								Differences in kinematics, kinetics, and muscle activity between underwater dolphin kicking and flutter kicking: multiple approaches using three-dimensional motion analysis, electromyography, and hydrodynamic simulation								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				25	2			249	264		10.1080/14763141.2025.2458473			FEB 1 2026	2026	It is well-known among swimmers and coaches that the swimming speed of the underwater dolphin kick (UDK) is higher than that of the underwater flutter kick (UFK). This study aimed to clarify the differences in swimming performance between the two kicking styles in terms of kinematics, kinetics and muscle activity. Eight male swimmers performed UDK and UFK in a water flume at same effort levels. The three-dimensional motion analysis and measurement of surface electromyography for the left lower limb were performed. The fluid forces acting on the body and joint torques were estimated using Swumsuit simulator. As the results, the kick amplitude and range of joint motion were smaller for the UFK than for the UDK, and the muscle activity and the peak joint torques of the hip and knee were lower for the UFK than for the UDK. Furthermore, the estimated propulsion for both the downward and upward kicks was lower for the UFK than for the UDK. Therefore, our results suggest that the differences in propulsion between the two kicking styles, caused by the differences in movement and muscle activity, may influence the differences in swimming speed.		[Yamakawa, Keisuke Kobayashi; Sengoku, Yasuo; Takagi, Hideki] Univ Tsukuba, Inst Hlth & Sport Sci, Tsukuba, Japan; [Homoto, Kenta] Japan Womens Coll Phys Educ, Dept Sports & Hlth Sci, Tokyo, Japan; [Nakashima, Motomu] Tokyo Inst Technol, Sch Engn, Meguro, Japan; [Shimojo, Hirofumi] Niigata Univ Hlth & Welf, Dept Hlth & Sports, Niigata, Japan; [Nakazono, Yusaku] Univ Tsukuba, Grad Sch Comprehens Human Sci, Tsukuba, Japan; [Yamakawa, Keisuke Kobayashi] Univ Tsukuba, Inst Hlth & Sport Sci, Tsukuba, Japan								2							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001409556900001	34	Article; Article		
J	Repullo, Carmen; Castano-Zambudio, Adrian; Del Campo-Vecino, Juan; Jimenez-Reyes, Pedro								Resisted sprint training with combined loads improve the maximum velocity in professional female soccer								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	8			2310	2327		10.1080/14763141.2025.2453817			AUG 3 2025	2025	We analysed the long-term adaptations of resisted sprint training (RST) with combined loads on the performance and kinematics of the maximal velocity (MV). One team women's professional soccer players performed a six-week training programme with progressive sled loading from 20% to 80% of body mass. Pre-training, post-training and detraining measures were obtained for sprint times for 0-20 m, 20-30 m and 0-30 m, while step length (SL), step rate (SR), step velocity, trunk, hip, thigh, knee, shank ankle, foot and centre of mass (CoM) angles were digitised with an 18-point human model. Two points were included: toe-off and touchdown, and both legs ipsilateral and contralateral. Sprint times were significantly reduced in the acceleration and MV phase, with a homogeneous individual response within the group. There were no significant alterations in the angles of the trunk, hip, thigh, knee, shank, ankle and foot across the different tests, nor in SR. Significant alterations in CoM-angle, step velocity and higher SL were observed. RST with progressive of combined loads effectively improved MV performance without causing changes that generated an adverse effect on sprint kinematics. The study offers an RST training programme to enhance sprint performance in professional female soccer.		[Repullo, Carmen; Del Campo-Vecino, Juan] Univ Autonoma Madrid, Educ Fac, Madrid, Spain; [Castano-Zambudio, Adrian; Jimenez-Reyes, Pedro] Rey Juan Carlos Univ, Ctr Sport Studies, Madrid, Spain; [Repullo, Carmen] Univ Autonoma Madrid, Educ Fac, Madrid, Spain								3							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001409570600001	51	Article; Article		
J	Lee, Seungjoo; Kwon, Sungho; Lee, Doheung								The effects of perceived trust in coach on performance in soccer team: Mediating role of team climate								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	3			888	898		10.1177/17479541241310510			JUN 2025	2025	This study examined the effect of trust in coach as perceived by soccer players on team climate and team performance. The survey was conducted using a combination of in-person and online and responses were collected through a self-report questionnaire, allowing participants to provide answers based on their own experiences and perceptions. A total of 202 soccer players (N = 202, male: 135, female: 67) registered with the Korea Football Association (KFA) responded to the survey. The age range of the participants was between 14 and 29 years, with a mean age of 18.43 years. Furthermore, Participants' team levels were categorized as middle and high school (74.7%), university (17.8%), and professional (7.5%). Descriptive statistical analysis was conducted to verify the normality of the data, while correlation analysis was performed to examine the relationships between variables. In addition, regression analysis was conducted using Hayes' PROCESS macro to examine the mediating effects. As we expected, trust in coach was significantly related to team climate and team performance. Trust in coach was found to predict the team climate and team performance positively. Also, the mediating effect of team climate in the relationship between trust in coach and team performance was significant. These findings underscore the importance of trust and positive climate within sports teams, indicating the necessity of establishing trust between coaches and players and fostering a positive team climate for effective team management.		[Lee, Seungjoo; Kwon, Sungho; Lee, Doheung] Seoul Natl Univ, Dept Phys Educ, 1 Gwanak Ro, Seoul, South Korea; [Kwon, Sungho] Seoul Natl Univ, Dept Phys Educ, 1 Gwanak Ro, Seoul, South Korea								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001408694000001	62	Article; Article		
J	De-la-Cruz-Torres, B.; Navarro-Castro, M.; Ruiz-de-Alarcon-Quintero, A.								The influence of goalkeeperś height on Soccer Performance: A gender-based analysis								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	2			596	603		10.1177/17479541241310523			APR 2025	2025	The difference in height between men and women goalkeepers (GKs) may influence goalkeeper performance, particularly when considering that both genders compete using goal frames of identical dimensions. The primary objective of this study was to establish the correlation between GKs' height and their performance during the 2023-2024 UEFA Champions League season, encompassing both women's and men's leagues. A secondary objective was to analyze GKs' performance overall. In total, 1751 shots on goal were analyzed, utilizing variables such as total shots on goal, goal shots, non-goal shots, effectiveness against shots conceded, expected goals on target (xGOT), class output, and zone output. A descriptive and correlational statistical analysis was conducted, along with a comparative analysis to assess differences between genders. The findings revealed no correlation between GKs' height and their performance, as measured by the xGOT metric. The "low center" goal zone received the highest percentage of shots on target, while the "low left" and "low right" zones conceded the highest percentage of goals. The main conclusion of this study was GKs' height should not be regarded as a determining physical characteristic for performance in both leagues. Furthermore, the predictive value of xGOT for a shot on goal resulting in a goal was determined to be 0.61 +/- 0.29 for the women's league and 0.60 +/- 0.29 for the men's league.		[De-la-Cruz-Torres, B.] Univ Seville, Dept Physiotherapy, Seville, Spain; [Navarro-Castro, M.] Dept Comp Sci & Math Anal, Campus Rabanales, Cordoba, Spain; [Ruiz-de-Alarcon-Quintero, A.] Sports Analyst Freelance, Seville, Spain; [De-la-Cruz-Torres, B.] Univ Seville, Avicena St, Seville 41009, Spain								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001408350500001	34	Article; Article		
J	James, Megan L.; Stiles, Victoria H.; Evans, Lynne; Crone, Diane M.; Donnelly, Grainne M.; Moore, Isabel S.								Development of a graded pelvic loading pathway using external pelvic acceleration variables to aid return to running postpartum								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				77				44	53		10.1016/j.ptsp.2025.11.008			JAN 2026	2026	Objectives: To assess the basis for developing a graded loading pathway that is specific to the pelvis, to aid return to running postpartum. Participants: Seventeen runners (28.4 f 7.0 years, 63.7 f 9.2 kg, 1.63 f 0.06 m) completed five treadmill running conditions and eight overground activities. Main outcome measures: Repeated measures ANOVA/Friedman tests assessed differences in pelvic acceleration variables between treadmill running conditions. Correlations assessed relationships between pelvic acceleration, kinetic variables and ratings of perceived pelvic impact. Activities were ranked according to pelvic acceleration variables. MeansfSDs and medians (IQR) were calculated as appropriate. Results: Grounded running had lower peak pelvic acceleration (2.8 f 0.5 g), average (18.5(14.2-26.5) gs- 1) and instantaneous (32.2(25.3-44.5) gs- 1) jerk and area under acceleration curve (0.58(0.56-0.62 gs) compared to habitual running per step. However, per kilometre, grounded running was not always lower. Relationships between variables differed across activities. A graded pelvic loading pathway was presented, spanning from walking to double leg high hopping. Conclusions: A graded pelvic loading pathway was developed that could be further refined to aid postpartum return to running. Grounded running demonstrated lower pelvic acceleration loading than habitual running and may provide a suitable transition prior to returning to running. Localised variables may be needed to adequately inform pelvic activity progressions.		[James, Megan L.; Evans, Lynne; Moore, Isabel S.] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Sch Sport & Hlth Sci, Cardiff, Wales; [Stiles, Victoria H.] Univ Exeter, Dept Publ Hlth & Sport Sci, Exeter, England; [Crone, Diane M.] Ctr Hlth Act & Wellbeing Res CAWR, Cyncoed Campus, Cardiff, Wales; [James, Megan L.] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Cyncoed Campus,Cyncoed Rd, Cardiff CF23 6XD, Wales								1							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001630360800001	59	Article; Article		
J	Garcia-Rubio, Javier; Lozano-Tejada, Nicolas; Lopez-Sierra, Pablo; Martinez-Sanchez, Almudena; Campos-Redondo, Amalia								Highway to Hell: Participation in youth National Basketball teams and senior performance								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	2			698	706		10.1177/17479541241305124			APR 2025	2025	The development of sporting talent in team sports has traditionally been based on talent identification programmes focused on the individualisation of the athlete in a single sport from childhood. These models have often been unsuccessful due to their lack of scientific evidence, as well as not taking into account factors such as the Relative Age Effect or the role of coaches in the early stages of training. The aim of the present research is to analyse whether the Relative Age Effect exists in Spain and to associate the debut in non-competitive national teams and the attainment of the status of high performance player. A total of 358 national players were analysed taking into account variables related to month of birth and debut in professional leagues or national teams. The results reveal that there is a relative effect of age in all national teams in Spain, essentially affecting professional status. Only early specialization from 18 years onwards predicts performance in professional leagues and national teams. Diversification in the early sporting stages improves the long-term development of the athlete.		[Garcia-Rubio, Javier; Lozano-Tejada, Nicolas; Lopez-Sierra, Pablo; Martinez-Sanchez, Almudena; Campos-Redondo, Amalia] Univ Extremadura, Fac Ciencias Deporte, Grp Optimizac Entrenamiento & Rendimiento Deport G, Caceres 10003, Spain; [Lopez-Sierra, Pablo] Univ Extremadura, Fac Ciencias Deporte, Grp Optimizac Entrenamiento & Rendimiento Deport G, Caceres 10003, Spain								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001400925500001	31	Article; Article		
J	Nielsen, Christian Gjersing; Olsen, Soren Boye; Feddersen, Arne								Willingness to Pay for Hosting Formula One								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				26	3			290	315		10.1177/15270025241301080			APR 2025	2025	Following Carson and Groves's theoretical framework on incentive compatibility in stated preference surveys, we apply the contingent valuation method with a single-bounded dichotomous referendum-style choice question to estimate the willingness to pay to host a Formula One Grand Prix in Copenhagen, Denmark. Based on a sample of 2,268 respondents answering a web-based questionnaire distributed to a random sample of individuals living in Copenhagen through the Danish public digital post system, we find an annual aggregate welfare improvement in the range of <euro>7.36-13.82 million among the 320,825 households in Copenhagen Municipality, with <euro>9.70 million as our central estimate, not considering potential negative welfare changes from hosting.		[Nielsen, Christian Gjersing] Danish Inst Sports Studies, Aarhus, Denmark; [Nielsen, Christian Gjersing; Feddersen, Arne] Univ Southern Denmark, Dept Business & Sustainabil, Esbjerg, Denmark; [Olsen, Soren Boye] Univ Copenhagen, Dept Food & Resource Econ, Frederiksberg, Denmark; [Nielsen, Christian Gjersing] Danish Inst Sports Studies, Aarhus, Denmark; [Nielsen, Christian Gjersing] Univ Southern Denmark, Dept Business & Sustainabil, Esbjerg, Denmark								1							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001399748400001	52	Article; Article		
J	Ishigaki, Tomonobu; Kurisuga, Yosuke; Sato, Raimu; Furuto, Issei; Kimura, Reina; Akuzawa, Hiroshi; Sekine, Chie; Hirabayashi, Ryo; Yokota, Hirotake; Okouchi, Takeru; Sakamoto, Kodai; Edama, Mutsuaki								Changes in glenohumeral range of motion by repetitive pitching and their relationship with arm speed during pitching								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	8			2279	2291		10.1080/14763141.2025.2452329			AUG 3 2025	2025	This study aimed to (1) examine the acute changes in the glenohumeral range of motion (ROM) after repetitive pitching and (2) clarify whether arm speed during pitching is associated with changes in the glenohumeral internal rotation (IR) and horizontal adduction (HADd) ROM. Fifteen healthy college males with over five years of baseball experience participated. Glenohumeral ROMs of IR, external rotation, and HADd were measured using a digital inclinometer before, immediately after, and one day after completing 100 repetitive full-effort pitches. Arm speed during pitching was measured using wearable inertial measurement unit sensors. IR ROM significantly decreased immediately after (p < 0.001) and a day after (p = 0.043) the pitching task compared to the baseline values. HADd (p = 0.361) and external rotation (p = 0.935) ROM exhibited no changes between pre-and post-pitching. Changes in the IR ROM were associated with arm speed during pitching (beta = -0.728, p = 0.002 for pre-post change; beta = -0.645, p = 0.009 for pre-post one-day change). Our findings imply that reductions in the glenohumeral IR ROM may precede chronic adaptations of the throwing shoulder. Furthermore, arm speed during pitching was a predictive factor for the changes in the glenohumeral IR ROM.		[Ishigaki, Tomonobu; Akuzawa, Hiroshi; Sekine, Chie; Hirabayashi, Ryo; Yokota, Hirotake; Okouchi, Takeru; Sakamoto, Kodai; Edama, Mutsuaki] Niigata Univ Hlth & Welf, Athlete Support Res Ctr, Niigata, Japan; [Ishigaki, Tomonobu; Kurisuga, Yosuke; Sato, Raimu; Furuto, Issei; Kimura, Reina; Akuzawa, Hiroshi; Sekine, Chie; Hirabayashi, Ryo; Yokota, Hirotake; Edama, Mutsuaki] Niigata Univ Hlth & Welf, Inst Human Movement & Med Sci, Niigata, Japan; [Ishigaki, Tomonobu] Toyo Univ, Inst Life Innovat Res Ctr, Kita ku, Tokyo, Japan; [Ishigaki, Tomonobu] Niigata Univ Hlth & Welf, Athlete Support Res Ctr, Niigata, Japan; [Ishigaki, Tomonobu] Niigata Univ Hlth & Welf, Inst Human Movement & Med Sci, Niigata, Japan; [Ishigaki, Tomonobu] Toyo Univ, Inst Life Innovat Res Ctr, Kita ku, Tokyo, Japan								1							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001401764300001	39	Article; Article		
J	Fuller, Gordon Ward; Brown, James; Dunlop, Michael; Raftery, Martin; Falvey, eanna Cian								The diagnostic accuracy of EyeGuide Focus testing for concussion in elite male Rugby players								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				53	4			267	274		10.1080/00913847.2025.2451606			JUL 4 2025	2025	IntroductionSmooth pursuit eye movements may be affected by head impacts. The EyeGuide Focus system is a simple, portable, test of visual tracking. This study investigated the diagnostic accuracy of EyeGuide measurements for detection of concussion during elite Rugby matches.MethodsA prospective diagnostic case-control study was performed in the elite 2021/2022 United Rugby Championship competition. The study population comprised consecutive players identified with match-related head impact events during the World Rugby Head Injury Assessment process, randomly chosen uninjured players, and players with match-related musculoskeletal injuries. The index test was blinded EyeGuide assessment performed by independent assessors. The reference standard was concussion diagnosed by the team doctor. Distributions of EyeGuide scores were compared between concussed and non-concussed players and receiver operator characteristic curves constructed.ResultsEyeGuide testing was performed in 262 cases, comprising 55 concussed players and 207 non concussed players (33 head impact events, 97 uninjured controls, and 79 musculoskeletal injury controls). The distributions of EyeGuide score were similar between concussed and non-concussed cases (medians 20,120 Vs 21,522, p = 0.3; difference -1,402, 95% CI -5,332-3,865). The c-index for the receiver operating characteristic curve was 0.46 (95% CI 0.36-0.55).ConclusionsEyeGuide Focus scores did not appear to discriminate between concussed and non-concussed players in a cohort of elite Rugby players.		[Fuller, Gordon Ward] Univ Sheffield, Ctr Urgent & Emergency Care Res, Sch Hlth & Related Res, 30 Regent St, Sheffield S1 4DA, England; [Brown, James] Leeds Beckett Univ, Carnegie Appl Rugby Res CARR Ctr, Carnegie Sch Sport, Leeds, England; [Brown, James] Stellenbosch Univ, Inst Sport & Exercise Med ISEM, Fac Med & Hlth Sci, Dept Exercise Sport & Lifestyle Med, Cape Town, South Africa; [Brown, James] Univ Cape Town, Sports Sci Inst South Africa, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Human Biol, Cape Town, South Africa; [Dunlop, Michael] BT Murrayfield Stadium, Edinburgh, Scotland; [Raftery, Martin; Falvey, eanna Cian] Univ Coll Cork, Dept Med, Cork, Ireland; [Fuller, Gordon Ward] Univ Sheffield, Ctr Urgent & Emergency Care Res, Sch Hlth & Related Res, 30 Regent St, Sheffield S1 4DA, England								1							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001398013300001	16	Article; Article		
J	Schnitzer, Martin; Piller, Sarah; Nadegger, Monica; Staudegger, Julia; Bocarro, Jason; Barth, Michael								The impact of doping scandals on on-site spectator satisfaction at major sport events								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				26	6			32	46		10.1108/IJSMS-02-2024-0036			JAN 14 2025	2025	PurposeThis study analyzes whether a doping scandal occurring during a global major sport event has an impact on on-site spectator satisfaction.Design/methodology/approachThe investigation was conducted among 896 on-site event spectators attending a minimum of one event at the Nordic Ski World Championships 2019. Furthermore, five members of the organizing committee were retrospectively interviewed about how they judged the doping scandals' impact on the perception of the event and its organization.FindingsResults revealed that the scandal did not affect the spectators' satisfaction and perception of the event. Nevertheless, the doping scandal was mentioned as a lowlight after becoming public.Practical implicationsEven though the doping scandal did not affect spectator satisfaction, such undesirable situations should be avoided as best as possible and form part of the event organizer's comprehensive risk management and communication strategy.Originality/valueIt can be concluded that spectator satisfaction remained quite stable while any negative impacts, if not directly affecting the spectator, seemed to be considered as somehow "part of the event."		[Schnitzer, Martin; Staudegger, Julia; Barth, Michael] Univ Innsbruck, Dept Sport Sci, Innsbruck, Austria; [Piller, Sarah] Univ Bern, Inst Sport Sci, Bern, Switzerland; [Nadegger, Monica] MCI Entrepreneurial Sch, Dept Tourism & Leisure Business, Innsbruck, Austria; [Nadegger, Monica] LMU Univ Munich, Innovat & Entrepreneurship Ctr, Munich, Germany; [Bocarro, Jason] NC State Univ, Dept Pk Recreat & Tourism Management, Raleigh, NC USA; [Staudegger, Julia] Univ Innsbruck, Dept Sport Sci, Innsbruck, Austria								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001394036800001	52	Article; Article		
J	Butler, Lauren; Martinez, Alexa; Fernandez, Jeffrey; Cardenas, Gabriel; Wright, Margaret; Sugimoto, Dai								Mastering the movement, not the mind: The relationship between quality of movement and kinesiophobia after ACL reconstruction in young athletes								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				77				79	86		10.1016/j.ptsp.2025.12.002			JAN 2026	2026	Objectives: To assess the relationship between kinesiophobia and quality of movement at return-to-sport (RTS) testing after primary anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction (ACLR) in youth athletes. Design: Retrospective case-control. Setting: Pediatric Hospital. Participants: 114 participants (77.2 % male; 16.1 +/- 2.3 years, 10.3 +/- 4.4 months post ACLR). Main outcome measures: Tampa Scale of Kinesiophobia (TSK-11), quantitative and qualitative results of RTS test including triple hop for distance (THD), triple crossover hop for distance (TCHD), and a sidestep cut (SSC). Results: During the THD, the high kinesiophobia group demonstrated fewer significant valgus faults on the involved limb (p = 0.027) and lower propensities of stiff landing on the uninvolved limb (p = 0.030) compared to the low kinesiophobia group. The high kinesiophobia group showed fewer stiff landing errors on the involved limb during the TCHD (p = 0.031) and fewer total sagittal plane errors on the involved limb during the SSC (p = 0.012). No significant differences in limb symmetry indices were observed. Conclusion: Participants with high kinesiophobia showed fewer quality of movement errors in both the frontal and sagittal plane at RTS testing after ACLR. Despite better movement quality, high fear may be an unresolved problem that still needs to be addressed during rehabilitation after ACLR.		[Butler, Lauren] Florida Int Univ, 11200 SW 8th St, Miami, FL 33199 USA; [Butler, Lauren; Martinez, Alexa; Fernandez, Jeffrey; Cardenas, Gabriel; Wright, Margaret] Nicklaus Childrens Hosp, Miami, FL USA; [Sugimoto, Dai] Micheli Ctr Sports Injury Prevent, Waltham, MA USA; [Sugimoto, Dai] Boston Childrens Hosp, Div Sports Med, Boston, MA USA; [Butler, Lauren] Florida Int Univ, 11200 SW 8th St, Miami, FL 33199 USA								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001640444800001	40	Article; Article		
J	Garcia, Micah C.; Heiderscheit, Bryan C.; Kraus, Emily; Murray, Amanda M.; Norte, Grant E.; Bazett-Jones, David M.								Influence of cadence manipulation on running biomechanics in high school cross-country runners								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	8			2233	2246		10.1080/14763141.2025.2450644			AUG 3 2025	2025	Increasing cadence is an intervention to reduce injury risk for adolescent long-distance runners. It is unknown how adolescents respond biomechanically when running with a higher than preferred cadence. We examined the influence of increasing cadence on peak joint angles, moments and powers, and ground reaction forces in long-distance runners. We collected three-dimensional kinematics and kinetics for 31 high school cross-country runners during overground running at their preferred cadence (baseline), +5%, and +10% baseline cadence. We performed repeated-measures ANOVAs to compare peak joint angles, moments and powers, and ground reactions forces among cadence conditions. Increasing cadence reduced peak pelvis, hip, knee, and ankle joint angles (p <= .01), peak knee moment and powers (p < .001), peak ankle power (p <= .01), and peak ground reaction forces (p <= .01) but increased peak hip moment and powers (p < .001). Increasing cadence by 10% elicited greater magnitude changes compared to increasing cadence by 5%. Increasing cadence may be a beneficial intervention to reduce lower extremity peak joint angles and knee kinetics for adolescent long-distance runners. The increase in hip kinetics when running at a higher than preferred cadence indicates this intervention increases the loads applied to the hip for adolescent long-distance runners.		[Garcia, Micah C.; Murray, Amanda M.; Norte, Grant E.; Bazett-Jones, David M.] Univ Toledo, Sch Exercise & Rehabil Sci, Toledo, OH 43606 USA; [Heiderscheit, Bryan C.] Univ Wisconsin Madison, Dept Orthoped & Rehabil, Madison, WI USA; [Kraus, Emily] Stanford Univ, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Div Phys Med & Rehabil, Redwood City, CA USA; [Garcia, Micah C.] Univ Toledo, Sch Exercise & Rehabil Sci, Toledo, OH 43606 USA								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001394683500001	34	Article; Article		
J	Munn, Emily E.; Case, Layne; Miedema, Sally Taunton; Stribing, Alexandra; Brian, Ali								What Influences the Likelihood of Gross Motor Developmental Delay Among Preschoolers in the Rural United States?								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				96	3			505	512		10.1080/02701367.2024.2445232			JUL 3 2025	2025	Today's children are experiencing a secular decline in gross motor skill development, resulting in developmental delays (DD). Understanding which development facets affect gross motor DD presentation supports prevention strategies. This study explored the influence of executive function, self-concept, and others associated with gross motor DD in preschool-aged children with and without disabilities. Participants (N = 660; Girls = 310; Boys = 370; M-age = 64.07, SD = 9.12 months) included children enrolled in general (n = 627) or self-contained (n = 33) classrooms. Participants were categorized as severe DD (%ile = 0-9), DD (10(th)-27(th) %ile), or no DD (28(th) + %ile) based on Test of Gross Motor Development-3, and a logistical regression model was fitted to examine the contributions of variables on gross motor DD. A higher score in perceived movement competence significantly lowered the odds of severe DD (t(654) = -3.24, p < 0.001, Wald = -6.49). A higher score in social skills significantly lowered the odds of severe DD (t(654) = -2.04, p = 0.04, Wald = -4.07). A higher score in problem behavior had a non-significant influence on severe DD (t(654) = -0.05, p = 0.96, Wald = -0.09). A higher score in attention significantly lowered severe DD (t(654) = -3.06, p = 0.002, Wald = -6.13). Those in a self-contained classroom had higher odds of severe DD (t(654) = 4.70, p < 0.0001, Wald = 9.39). Prevention intervention programs should consider the multiple facets of development when supporting children's trajectories for health.		[Munn, Emily E.; Miedema, Sally Taunton; Brian, Ali] Univ South Carolina, Coll Educ, Dept Educ & Dev Sci, 1300 Wheat St, Columbia, SC 29208 USA; [Case, Layne] Calif State Univ Chico, Chico, CA 95929 USA; [Stribing, Alexandra] Kean Univ, Union, NJ USA; [Munn, Emily E.] Univ South Carolina, Coll Educ, Dept Educ & Dev Sci, 1300 Wheat St, Columbia, SC 29208 USA								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001400637100001	39	Article; Article		
J	Freeman, Brock W.; Smith, Nathan D. W.; Mirosevich, Thomas J.; Cripps, Ashley J.								Contextual maximum speed: Assessing the day-to-day variation in maximal running speed in Australian rules football								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	3			1134	1142		10.1177/17479541241311527			JUN 2025	2025	Monitoring sprint distance is commonplace in Australian Rules football (ARF). Thresholds are programmed as a percentage of maximum speed (Vmax), however day-to-day variation has not been considered. The aim of this study was to determine the day-to-day variation in Vmax, jump height, power, and strength in male, talent-identified ARF athletes. Twenty-three male, ARF athletes (age = 16.6 +/- 0.64 years, height = 179.4 +/- 9.1 cm, mass = 73.4 +/- 8.4 kg) completed a countermovement jump, isometric mid-thigh pull, and 40-metre sprint on three occasions within a 7-day period, separated by 48-h recovery periods. Descriptive statistics, repeated measures ANOVAs, and general linear regressions were used to analyze the data. Vmax declined progressively (eta P2 = 0.586, CV = 5%) between session one (31.8 +/- 1.5km & sdot;h-1), two (30.8 +/- 1.2km & sdot;h-1), and three (30.0 +/- 1.3km & sdot;h-1). No differences were observed for jump height (47.4 +/- 5.0 cm), peak force (2981 +/- 518N), or net peak force (2047 +/- 444N & sdot;kg-1). Jump height, peak force, and net peak force did not predict Vmax in session 1, session 2, or session 3. Individual changes in Vmax exceeded 5% in 10 instances. The Vmax is outside the typical error for measurement and indicative of the variation in Vmax. The lack of predictive power demonstrated by strength and power variables is evidence of the technical considerations associated with sprinting. Practitioners should consider the variation in Vmax when monitoring training load in field sports. The variation suggests that programming thresholds based upon a single recording of Vmax may incorrectly describe the true amount of high-speed and sprint running completed.		[Freeman, Brock W.; Smith, Nathan D. W.; Mirosevich, Thomas J.; Cripps, Ashley J.] Univ Notre Dame Australia, Sch Hlth Sci, Fremantle, Australia; [Freeman, Brock W.] 33 Phillimore St, Fremantle, WA 6160, Australia								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001392430600001	40	Article; Article		
J	Iverson, Hunter; Smulligan, Katherine; Donahue, Catherine; Kniss, Joshua; Wingerson, Mathew; Wilson, Julie; Howell, David								Comparing peer relationship ratings among adolescents with sport and non-sport related concussions								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				53	3			249	255		10.1080/00913847.2025.2450216			MAY 4 2025	2025	ObjectiveTo evaluate if peer relationship ratings differ among adolescents who sustain a sport-related concussion compared to those who sustain a non-sport-related concussion.Study DesignWe conducted a cross-sectional investigation of 123 adolescents who sustained a concussion within 21 days before their initial post-injury evaluation (mean = 9.2 +/- 3.9 days post-concussion). Participants reported whether their injury occurred during organized sport participation (sport-related concussion group) or not (non-sport-related concussion group). Participants completed the PROMIS Global Pediatric 25 assessment, as well as the Post-Concussion Symptom Inventory (PCSI) to rate concussion symptom severity and a background/demographic intake form during the evaluation. We compared PROMIS peer relationship ratings between groups using independent t-tests and evaluated the association between peer relationship ratings and sport-related concussion using multiple linear regression after adjusting for covariates including PROMIS anxiety rating, age, sex, concussion and musculoskeletal injury history, loss of consciousness at time of concussion, physical activity participation prior to study evaluation, and concussion symptom severity.ResultsMost (N = 96, 78%) participants reported sustaining a concussion during sports. The group who sustained sport-related concussion reported significantly better post-concussion peer relationship ratings compared to the group who sustained a non-sport-related concussion (52.7 +/- 7.7 vs. 47.7 +/- 10.4; p = 0.009, Cohen's d = 0.60). After covariate adjustment, those who sustained a sport-related concussion had a significantly greater post-concussion peer relationship rating than those who sustained a non-sport-related concussion (beta = 4.19, 95% CI = 0.39, 8.00; p = 0.03). Higher peer relationship ratings were also associated with lower anxiety ratings following concussion (beta= -0.21, 95% CI= -0.38, -0.04; p = 0.03).ConclusionAdolescents who sustained a concussion during sports reported significantly greater post-concussion peer relationship ratings than those in non-sport settings. Better peer relationship ratings were associated with less anxiety in the post-injury period. These findings suggest the potential effects of contextual factors (e.g. peer support) to facilitate improved outcomes following adolescent concussion.		[Iverson, Hunter; Smulligan, Katherine; Donahue, Catherine; Kniss, Joshua; Wingerson, Mathew; Wilson, Julie; Howell, David] Univ Colorado, Dept Orthoped, Sch Med, 13123 E,16th Ave,B060, Aurora, CO 80045 USA; [Smulligan, Katherine; Donahue, Catherine; Kniss, Joshua; Wingerson, Mathew; Howell, David] Childrens Hosp Colorado, Sports Med Ctr, Aurora, CO USA; [Wilson, Julie] Univ Colorado, Dept Pediat, Sch Med, Aurora, CO USA; [Howell, David] Univ Colorado, Dept Orthoped, Sch Med, 13123 E,16th Ave,B060, Aurora, CO 80045 USA								2							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001391283100001	48	Article; Article		
J	Noh, Yeayoung; Ahn, Na Young								Millennials' perceived value and intention to purchase athleisure products: the mediating role of desire for conspicuous consumption								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				26	3			548	567		10.1108/IJSMS-06-2024-0122			OCT 10 2025	2025	PurposeAs Millennials consist of most of the world's population, there is a growing body of research understanding their consumption patterns in sport. We examined the relationship among Millennials' various perceived values, their desire for conspicuous consumption, and their intention to purchase athleisure products.Design/methodology/approachWe used a web-based survey through Amazon Mechanical Turk (n = 348) to test our research hypotheses and model.FindingsOur findings revealed that perceived price, quality, and emotional value were positively associated with both the desire for conspicuous consumption and purchase intention towards athleisure products among Millennials. Perceived emotional and social value of athleisure-related products was positively associated with their purchasing intention via the desire for conspicuous consumption.Originality/valueThis is the first study examining the association among perceived value, conspicuous consumption tendencies, and purchase intention among Millennials. Our study suggests that Millennials have unique desires and preferences in what they wear in both sporting and casual settings, which in turn, contributes to their self-presentation strategies. These findings have implications for both sport scholars and professionals.		[Noh, Yeayoung] Seoul Natl Univ, Seoul, South Korea; [Ahn, Na Young] Bournemouth Univ, Poole, England; [Ahn, Na Young] Bournemouth Univ, Poole, England								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001390808700001	71	Article; Article		
J	Jimenez, Juan Luis; Valido, Jorge; Jimenez, Marcos								The Effects of Crowds on Professional European Basketball Teams								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				26	4			377	396		10.1177/15270025241309831			MAY 2025	2025	Do crowds affect professional basketball teams' performance? Using results from matches played in the EuroLeague, EuroCup, and ACB (Spain) before, during, and after the COVID period (2014-2024) allows us to answer this question. Our estimations conclude that the probability of a team winning at home is 5.6% lower in the absence of a home crowd in ACB and 5.76% in the case of EuroLeague. Moreover, the difference between home points and away points is lower and the percentage home fouls versus away fouls is higher, but both results are only significant for ACB. Finally, the absence of spectators in the stands does not affect shooting percentages.		[Jimenez, Juan Luis] Univ Las Palmas Gran Canaria, Fac Econ, Grp Invest Anal Polit Publ, Las Palmas Gran Canaria, Las Palmas, Spain; [Valido, Jorge] Univ Las Palmas Gran Canaria, Fac Econ, Transport & Tourism EITT, Res Grp Econ Infrastructures, Despacho D-2-16, Las Palmas Gran Canaria 35017, Las Palmas, Spain; [Jimenez, Marcos] Univ Las Palmas Gran Canaria, Dept Econ, Las Palmas Gran Canaria, Las Palmas, Spain; [Valido, Jorge] Univ Las Palmas Gran Canaria, Fac Econ, Transport & Tourism EITT, Res Grp Econ Infrastructures, Despacho D-2-16, Las Palmas Gran Canaria 35017, Las Palmas, Spain								2							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001388824900001	24	Article; Article		
J	Reichert, Lukas; Hacker, Sebastian; Mutz, Michael; Raab, Markus; Wiese, Lena; Krueger, Karsten; Zentgraf, Karen								How Much Can the Genotype Predict Phenotypical Power Performance in Elite Male and Female Athletes?								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				95				95	109		10.5114/jhk/190679			JAN 2025	2025	The role of power performance in elite athletes has been enriched by identifying associations between specific single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and power performance. To deepen our understanding of this association, the objective of this study was to explore the relationship between the genotype and the phenotype in elite athletes. A total of 278 German national squad athletes (156 males, 122 females) underwent genotyping, and their performance in a countermovement jump test (CMJ) and 10-m sprint was assessed. Genotype distribution was analyzed using Chi-square tests. Spearman correlation was employed to examine associations between selected SNPs (e.g., ACTN3, AGT, HSD17B14, IP6K3, MTRR, UCP2, and VDR) and CMJ and sprint performances. Gender-specific polygenic "Total Genotype Scores" (TGSsig) were calculated. Predictive power of TGSsig on power performance was evaluated using linear regression. TGSsig explained 10% of variance in CMJ and sprint performance in both genders. Among males, correlations were identified between AGT and VDR with the CMJ as well as between IP6K3 and sprint performance (p < 0.05). In females, ACTN3, AGT, and UCP2 exhibited associations with the CMJ, while HSD17B14, MTRR, and UCP2 were correlated with sprint performance (p < 0.05). Significant differences in genotype distribution between genders were observed for DMD and MPRIP. Our findings strengthen the idea of power being partly heritable, however, the genotype only partially, by 10%, determines power performance. The role of the athletes' genotype for individual performance development should be investigated in future longitudinal studies.		[Reichert, Lukas; Zentgraf, Karen] Goethe Univ Frankfurt, Movement & Exercise Sci, Frankfurt, Germany; [Hacker, Sebastian; Krueger, Karsten] Justus Liebig Univ Giessen, Dept Exercise Physiol & Sports Therapy, Giessen, Germany; [Mutz, Michael] Justus Liebig Univ Giessen, Social Sci Sport, Giessen, Germany; [Raab, Markus] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Psychol, Cologne, Germany; [Wiese, Lena] Goethe Univ Frankfurt, Database Technol & Data Analyt, Frankfurt, Germany; [Reichert, Lukas] Goethe Univ Frankfurt, Movement & Exercise Sci, Frankfurt, Germany								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:001424460400008	54	Article; Article		
J	de Dios-alvarez, Vicente; Padron-Cabo, Alexis; Alkain-Villa, Pello; Rey, Ezequiel; Castellano, Julen								Area per Player in Small-Sided Games to Estimate the External Load in Elite Youth Soccer Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				95							10.5114/jhk/189421			JAN 2025	2025	Small-sided games (SSGs) refer to game formats where there are variations in the pitch size, the number of players, and rules as compared to official soccer matches. The purpose of this study was to assess the relationship between GPS-derived external loads and the SSGs' area per player (ApP) in elite youth soccer players to identify whether the ApP influenced GPS-derived external load measures to estimate external load variables from SSGs with different densities (i.e., ApP100: the ApP <150 m(2)<middle dot>player-1; ApP200: the ApP ranged from 151 to 250; ApP300: the ApP > 251 m(2)<middle dot>player(-1)). A cumulative count of 978 individual observations was undertaken, encompassing 15 diverse SSG configurations. The results showed moderate and large correlations between the ApP and external load measures for both U19 and U16 soccer players. The ApP300 induced higher locomotor activities than the ApP100 and the ApP200. However, the ApP100 showed higher mechanical (accelerations and decelerations) values compared to ApP200 and ApP300 conditions for both age groups. It was found that an ApP of less than 150 m(2)<middle dot>player(-1) in SSGs did not stimulate enough high-speed distance relative (HSDR), very high-speed distance relative (VHSDR) and sprint distance relative (SDR) compared to official matches in youth soccer players. However, the same ApP overestimated mechanical variables such as total high accelerations and decelerations relative to time (THACCR and THDECR, respectively). The findings of this study have the potential to facilitate the effective management of training loads tailored to specific fitness components of players.		[de Dios-alvarez, Vicente; Padron-Cabo, Alexis; Rey, Ezequiel] Univ Vigo, Fac Educ & Sport Sci, Pontevedra, Spain; [Alkain-Villa, Pello] Univ Basque Country UPV EHU, Fac Phys Act & Sports Sci, Vitoria, Pais Vasco, Spain; [Castellano, Julen] Univ Basque Country UPV EHU, GIKAFIT Res Grp, Vitoria, Spain; [de Dios-alvarez, Vicente] Univ Vigo, Fac Educ & Sport Sci, Pontevedra, Spain								11							Sport Sciences	WOS:001424460400010	42	Article; Article		
J	Vandoni, Matteo; Gatti, Alessandro; Pellino, Vittoria Carnevale; Cavallo, Caterina; Pirazzi, Agnese; Giuriato, Matteo; Lovecchio, Nicola								Temporal Trends of Linear Speed and Change of Direction Performance in Italian Children								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				95				215	226		10.5114/jhk/189745			JAN 2025	2025	Children tend to enjoy high-intensity activities that involve both linear speed (LS) and change of direction (COD), essential for sports performance. However, the results of trends in LS and COD have not been consistent over time. Therefore, our study aimed to investigate the temporal trends in LS and COD performance among 11-13 year old Italian children/preadolescents over 25 years, while minimizing the effect of anthropometric characteristics. A total of 3884 students were recruited between 1990 and 2010 and performed 4 x 5-m shuttle run, 30-m sprint, and 60-m speed tests. A weighted linear regression was performed to analyze the overall temporal trends in BMI-adjusted speed tests. The results showed an increase in mean 4 x 5-m shuttle run time, indicating a decrease in COD ability, while LS performance remained relatively stable over time. These trends were consistent across genders and ages. Our study concludes that LS test performance remained steady over decades, while COD ability declined with sex-based variations despite participants' early age. Our results offer crucial data for interventions to improve children's physical fitness: in particular for COD performance. PE teachers and coaches should prioritize improving COD over LS to improve these abilities and prevent physical fitness decline.		[Vandoni, Matteo; Gatti, Alessandro; Pellino, Vittoria Carnevale; Cavallo, Caterina; Pirazzi, Agnese; Giuriato, Matteo] Univ Pavia, Dept Publ Hlth Expt Med & Forens Sci, Lab Adapted Motor Act LAMA, Pavia, Italy; [Gatti, Alessandro] Univ Pavia, Dept Publ Hlth Expt & Forens Med, Natl PhD Programme One Hlth Approaches Infect Dis, Pavia, Italy; [Cavallo, Caterina] LUNEX Int Univ Hlth Exercise & Sports, Dept Sport & Exercise Sci, Differdange, Luxembourg; [Lovecchio, Nicola] Univ Bergamo, Dept Human & Social Sci, Bergamo, Italy; [Gatti, Alessandro] Univ Pavia, Dept Publ Hlth Expt Med & Forens Sci, Lab Adapted Motor Act LAMA, Pavia, Italy; [Gatti, Alessandro] Univ Pavia, Dept Publ Hlth Expt & Forens Med, Natl PhD Programme One Hlth Approaches Infect Dis, Pavia, Italy								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:001424460400017	43	Article; Article		
J	Bachero-Mena, Beatriz; Rodiles-Guerrero, Luis; Sanchez-Valdepenas, Juan; Cornejo-Daza, Pedro J.; Cano-Castillo, Clara; Pareja-Blanco, Fernando; Sanchez-Moreno, Miguel								Velocity Loss as an Indicator of Resistance Training Volume in Women								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				95				111	122		10.5114/jhk/190387			JAN 2025	2025	This study aimed to analyze the evolution of repetition velocity throughout a set until failure in the bench-press exercise and to analyze the relationships between the percentage of performed repetitions (%Rep) regarding the maximum number of repetitions that can be completed (MNR) and the percentage of velocity loss (VL) in women. Sixteen women performed one set until failure with four different intensities (50%, 60%, 70%, and 80% of one-repetition maximum, 1RM). Two-testing sessions were performed with 50% and 80% 1RM to evaluate data stability. The level of significance was set at p <= 0.05. A close relationship was observed between the magnitude of VL and the %Rep (R-2 = 0.85-0.92) and a low standard error of the estimation (6.85-9.81%). Regarding reliability, the MNR showed a coefficient of variation (CV) of 16.1% and 20.8% for 50% and 80% 1RM, respectively. Regarding the %Rep for a given VL (from 15% VL), CVs were: 6.3-19.6%, being higher when VL reached in the set was lower. This study shows the usefulness of monitoring VL to estimate, with considerable precision, the %Rep in women. However, the %Rep when a given VL was reached revealed only satisfactory absolute reliability from a certain VL threshold (>15% VL).		[Bachero-Mena, Beatriz; Rodiles-Guerrero, Luis; Cornejo-Daza, Pedro J.] Univ Seville, Dept Human Movement & Sport Performance, Seville, Spain; [Bachero-Mena, Beatriz; Rodiles-Guerrero, Luis; Sanchez-Valdepenas, Juan; Cornejo-Daza, Pedro J.; Cano-Castillo, Clara; Pareja-Blanco, Fernando; Sanchez-Moreno, Miguel] Univ Pablo Olavide, Phys Performance & Sports Res Ctr CIRFD, Sci Based Training Res Grp, Seville, Spain; [Sanchez-Valdepenas, Juan] Cardenal Spinola CEU Andalucia Univ, Phys Educ & Sports Dept, Seville, Spain; [Sanchez-Moreno, Miguel] Univ Seville, Dept Phys Educ, Seville, Spain; [Bachero-Mena, Beatriz] Univ Seville, Dept Human Movement & Sport Performance, Seville, Spain; [Bachero-Mena, Beatriz] Univ Pablo Olavide, Phys Performance & Sports Res Ctr CIRFD, Sci Based Training Res Grp, Seville, Spain								7							Sport Sciences	WOS:001424460400009	46	Article; Article		
J	Koc, Murat; Saritas, Nazmi; Coskun, Betul; Akkurt, Soner								Effects of Threshold Pressure Loading Exercises Applied to Inspiratory Muscles in Taekwondo Athletes on the Concentration and Utilization of Lactate								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				95				55	69		10.5114/jhk/188542			JAN 2025	2025	This study examined the effects of different inspiratory muscle training (IMT) on lactate concentration and utilization during high-intensity exercises. Participants were divided into the following three groups: a chronic inspiratory training group (CRG), an acute inspiratory training group (ARG), and a control group (CG). Participants in the CRG accomplished IMT at an exercise intensity of 60-90% of the maximum inspiratory pressure (MIP) with 30 breaths twice a day for 8 weeks, and those in the ARG performed IMT at an intensity of 40-50% of the MIP for approximately 20 min in the pre-training warm-up phase three times a week. Body composition tests, maximum oxygen uptake, anaerobic power tests, and lactate concentrations of participants were evaluated before and after the intervention. Three consecutive anaerobic power tests (Wingate) were performed to observe changes in lactate concentration and utilization during high-intensity exercises. Blood lactate concentrations were measured immediately at the end of each anaerobic power test, after a 75-s rest, and during passive rest at the 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 5th, 10th, and 15th min of recovery. The results of the analysis of variance (ANOVA) revealed a significant decrease in blood lactate concentration only in the CRG immediately after the first Wingate test, whereas significant differences in the ARG and the CG were observed after the third Wingate test. After the last Wingate test, a significant decrease was observed after 5 min of recovery in the CRG and after 10 and 15 min of passive rest in both training groups. Herein, we conclude that IMT decreases blood lactate concentration after intense exercise and accelerates lactate utilization during recovery.		[Koc, Murat; Saritas, Nazmi; Akkurt, Soner] Erciyes Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Kayseri, Turkiye; [Coskun, Betul] Erciyes Univ, Med Fac, Dept Sports Med, Kayseri, Turkiye; [Koc, Murat] Erciyes Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Kayseri, Turkiye								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:001424460400005	51	Article; Article		
J	Ferreira-Barbosa, Helena; Sabino, Bebiana; Loureiro, Vania; Cepeda-Carrion, Gabriel								Perceived value, service quality and service convenience on behavioral intentions in fitness centers: a comparison between customers with and without personal training								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				26	3			468	488		10.1108/IJSMS-09-2024-0226			OCT 10 2025	2025	PurposeThis study aimed to propose and test a model that describes the different aspects and mechanisms that influence the behavioral intentions of fitness center customers by examining the relationship between service convenience, service quality and perceived value, comparing customers with and without PT service. This study is highlighted by the need for fitness centers to remain competitive and profitable and the fact that PT services are one of the top ten global fitness trends.Design/methodology/approachData were collected from 412 fitness center customers. Partial least square structural equation modeling (PLS-SEM) was used to test each proposed hypothesis.FindingsNine of the ten hypotheses tested, between service convenience, service quality, perceived value and behavioral intentions, were supported. The results from bootstrapping supported the indirect effects of service quality and perceived value in the relationship between service convenience, service quality and behavioral intentions. The presence of the PT service affects the majority of the relationships in the model.Research limitations/implicationsCustomers with PT services may have different expectations and perceptions based on the cost associated with the service. Managers may consider adapting their service strategies to these distinct customer segments, offering differentiated service levels or targeted convenience improvements.Originality/valueThe variables under study integrate a comprehensive model for fitness centers while innovating by incorporating PT services as a moderating variable, providing a differentiated view of how customer segments perceive and respond to fitness center offerings.		[Ferreira-Barbosa, Helena; Sabino, Bebiana; Loureiro, Vania] Inst Politecn Beja, Escola Super Educ, Beja, Portugal; [Ferreira-Barbosa, Helena; Sabino, Bebiana; Loureiro, Vania] Sport Phys Act & Hlth Res & INnovat Ctr, SPRINT, Beja, Portugal; [Cepeda-Carrion, Gabriel] Univ Seville, Fac Ciencias Econ & Empresariales, Inst Econ & Negocios, Alcoentre, Portugal; [Sabino, Bebiana] Inst Politecn Beja, Escola Super Educ, Beja, Portugal; [Sabino, Bebiana] Sport Phys Act & Hlth Res & INnovat Ctr, SPRINT, Beja, Portugal								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001381919400001	62	Article; Article		
J	Slocum, Caitlynn; Langdon, Jody L.; Munkasy, Barry A.; Brewer, Benjamin; Oldham, Jessie R.; Graham, Vicky; Buckley, Thomas A.								Multifaceted concussion assessment battery: sensitivity at the expense of specificity?								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				53	3			220	229		10.1080/00913847.2024.2442901			MAY 4 2025	2025	Objectives: A multifaceted assessment battery is recommended for testing suspected concussed athletes; however, the individual tests have limitations and potentially may lead to false positive outcomes. Therefore, the purpose of this study was to psychometrically evaluate concussion assessment tools used for intercollegiate student-athletes, with a focus on the time interval between baseline and subsequent assessments. Methods: Ninety-two collegiate student-athletes matched between concussion (N = 46. F32/M14) and non-concussion (N = 46, 32F/14 M) completed the standard assessment of concussion, balance error scoring system, symptom questionnaire, and computerized neurocognitive tests at baseline and acutely (<48 h) following a concussion. Test outcomes were compared between time points with three approaches: 1) vs baseline, 2) reliable change scores (RCI), and 3) vs American College of Rehabilitation Medicine (ACRM). Concussion assessment sensitivity, specificity, likelihood ratios, predictive values, and diagnostic odds ratio were calculated. A receiver operator characteristic compared area under the curve (AUC) for the overall battery as well as between academic years. Results: The sensitivity of the battery was high (78.3-95.7%), but specificity was low to moderate (6.5-52.2%) with comparison to the RCI typically performing best. The three approaches yielded AUC values between 0.51 and 0.63 which is below the discriminatory threshold (0.70) with comparison to RCI performing best. By academic year, Juniors was the only year in which the ROC exceeded the threshold (0.75). The number of tests failed did not improve any AUC values (0.51-0.69) to exceed the threshold. Conclusions: The outcomes of this study support the premise that concussion must be evaluated using a comprehensive clinical examination including a variety of assessments to evaluate each clinical domain. Clinicians need to recognize that the multifaceted assessment battery has high sensitivity, but the overall psychometrics do not exceed the threshold for group discrimination and caution must be used in their interpretation.		[Slocum, Caitlynn; Langdon, Jody L.; Munkasy, Barry A.] Georgia Southern Univ, Dept Hlth Sci & Kinesiol, Statesboro, GA USA; [Brewer, Benjamin] Univ Delaware, Epidemiol Program, Newark, DE USA; [Oldham, Jessie R.] Virginia Commonwealth Univ, Dept Phys Med & Rehabil, Sch Med, Richmond, VA USA; [Graham, Vicky] Amer Publ Univ Syst, Sch Hlth Sci, ,TW, Charles Town, WV USA; [Buckley, Thomas A.] Univ Delaware, Dept Kinesiol & Appl Physiol, Newark, DE USA; [Buckley, Thomas A.] Univ Delaware, Interdisciplinary Program Biomech & Movement Sci, Newark, DE USA; [Buckley, Thomas A.] Univ Delaware, Dept Kinesiol & Appl Physiol, Interdisciplinary Program Biomech & Movement Sci, 349 STAR Tower, 100 Discovery Blvd, Newark, DE 19716 USA								5							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001382854200001	60	Article; Article		
J	Loureiro, Manuel; Mesquita, Isabel; Ramos, Ana; Coutinho, Patricia; Ribeiro, Joao; Clemente, Filipe Manuel; Nakamura, Fabio Yuzo; Afonso, Jose								Operationalising flexible planning coupled with ongoing assessment strategies. A pragmatic, longitudinal randomized study in U13 female volleyball team								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	2			714	723		10.1177/17479541241307554			APR 2025	2025	Embracing a tailor-made approach to training, the aim of this study was to understand how ongoing adaptation and planning of training sessions (through bidirectional feedback between planning and assessment) contrasts with a more rigid planning with only 4-weeks adaptations, and how those differences impact on learning trajectories. A longitudinal, randomized design with a qualitative analysis was conducted during a full season with 24 girls from a U-13 volleyball team: an experimental group (E.G.) had daily adjusted planning and a contrast group (C.G.) had 4-weeks adjusted planning. Data analysis considered reflective diaries, field notes, video analysis and ongoing assessments using Game Performance Assessment Instrument, to gain a deeper understanding of athletes' progression and identify their struggles. Based on ongoing and punctual assessment (through GPAI) the planning of the two groups diverged significantly in content and drill structure. Ongoing assessment allowed to solve, in E.G., unpredictable issues as well as develop flexible planning to adapt the specific drills and re-adapt the content. Those adaptations occurred in many ways such as: type of the drill, setting goals and changing the content of the session. In C.G., 4 weeks adaptations were permitted to moderate the extending disparities between rigid planning and ongoing adaptations, aiming to balance the group's levels. Our findings highlighted the importance of bidirectional feedback between assessment and planning, informing the coaches to possible adaptation of the training. Given the differences in learning rates, unforeseen circumstances and players' characteristics, flexible planning and assessment is paramount to effectively steer the learning process.		[Loureiro, Manuel; Mesquita, Isabel; Ramos, Ana; Coutinho, Patricia; Ribeiro, Joao; Afonso, Jose] Fac Sport Univ Porto FADEUP, Ctr Res Educ Innovat & Intervent Sport CIFI2D, Rua Dr Placido Costa 91, P-4200450 Porto, Portugal; [Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Inst Politecn Viana Do Castelo, Escola Super Desporto & Lazer, Viana Do Castelo, Portugal; [Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, Dept Biomech & Sport Engn, Gdansk, Poland; [Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Sport Phys Act & Hlth Res & Innovat Ctr, Viana Do Castelo, Portugal; [Nakamura, Fabio Yuzo] Univ Maia UMAIA, Res Ctr Sports Sci, Hlth Sci & Human Dev, CIDESD, Maia, Portugal; [Loureiro, Manuel] Fac Sport Univ Porto FADEUP, Ctr Res Educ Innovat & Intervent Sport CIFI2D, Rua Dr Placido Costa 91, P-4200450 Porto, Portugal								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001381800100001	62	Article; Article		
J	Deuker, Albert; Wittkugel, Joris; Dublin, Yannis; Braunstein, Bjoern; Rein, Robert; Davids, Keith; Vogt, Tobias								Beyond the Pitch: Unveiling the Concave Hull as Soccer's Ecological Niche in Practice Design								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				96	3			463	474		10.1080/02701367.2024.2434155			JUL 3 2025	2025	An ecological niche is a field in a landscape of affordances, rich in information inviting its inhabitants to develop functionality and effectiveness of their behavior. This idea means that, in sports like soccer, the playing area encapsulates an ecological niche, replete with affordances inviting collective and individual technical-tactical actions, contextualized with associated psychological and physical demands. To examine the co-adaptive relationships framing players' actions in their ecological niche, the present study employed a crossover design with repeated measures to compare the players' transactions within 11 vs. 11 training games across four different field dimensions (from official size to a small-sided game). Player transactions with the performance environment were analyzed across 40 game sequences, using 10Hz GPS positional data. Metrics such as convex hull dimensions, field occupancy, and proximity to opponents were derived. Repeated-measures ANOVA revealed significant differences between tendencies for forming synergies constrained by field dimensions scaling. When field size was reduced, the convex hull dimension significantly decreased. Additionally, relative field occupancy and distance to nearest opponent exhibited significant changes, especially when contrasted with performance transactions emerging on the official size field. These observations underline the essential functional relationship between the playing field dimension and emergent player actions. Such findings underscore the need for soccer coaches and training designers to integrate the specificity of field dimension scaling in training designs to represent competitive performance contexts. Data analytics deriving spatial constraint values from competitive matches may help researchers and practitioners improve task representativeness in practice and performance preparation, supporting the optimality of training niches in soccer.		[Deuker, Albert; Wittkugel, Joris; Dublin, Yannis; Braunstein, Bjoern; Rein, Robert; Vogt, Tobias] German Sport Univ Cologne, Cologne, Germany; [Davids, Keith] Sheffield Hallam Univ, Sheffield, England; [Deuker, Albert] German Sport Univ Cologne, Sect Didact & Methodol Sports, Sportpark Mungersdorf 6, D-50933 Cologne, Germany								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001380671300001	52	Article; Article		
J	Nguyen, Jeremy; Yeomans, Carleigh; Karg, Adam								Racial preferences in sports NFTs? Empirical evidence from NBA Top Shots								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				26	2			371	391		10.1108/IJSMS-03-2023-0055			APR 22 2025	2025	Purpose The purpose of this paper is to analyse a large data set of over 2.4 million Top Shot NFT transactions to determine whether there is evidence of revealed racial preferences in the Top Shot market.Design/methodology/approach This study examines a data set of 2.43 million transactions from 28 July 2020 to 20 March 2021 using Ordinary Least Squares, Weighted Least Squares and Inverse Probability Weighting. Our models include indicator variables for the race of depicted players and examine estimated race coefficients for statistical significance and effect size.Findings Our results indicate that the National Basketball Association (NBA) Top Shot NFTs depicting Black players or Black/Mixed players trade for higher prices than those depicting White players, after controlling for other factors including on-court performance. While highly statistically significant, the effect sizes are below conventional thresholds for small effects.Practical implicationsRecent empirical studies present evidence suggesting that Black players may earn less than comparable White players. Our findings challenge implicit justifications for observed earning disparities based on consumer preference.Originality/value This study provides empirical analysis into revealed racial preference of consumers for sports memorabilia. It is the first to examine racial preference in NBA NFTs.		[Nguyen, Jeremy] Swinburne Univ Technol, Dept Accounting Econ & Finance, Hawthorn, Australia; [Yeomans, Carleigh] Swinburne Univ Technol, Dept Management & Mkt, Hawthorn, Australia; [Karg, Adam] Deakin Univ, Deakin Business Sch, Melbourne, Australia; [Nguyen, Jeremy] Swinburne Univ Technol, Dept Accounting Econ & Finance, Hawthorn, Australia								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001379451700001	58	Article; Article		
J	Dong, Maolin; Li, Ming; Qu, Qingling; Kim, Youngsuk; Kim, Sukwon								Arm slot angles affect elbow and shoulder joint torque in elite college pitchers								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	8			2166	2183		10.1080/14763141.2024.2431927			AUG 3 2025	2025	The arm slot (AS) angle reflects the pitching style of baseball pitchers. Baseball pitchers at different levels exhibit different AS angle distributions and different pitching mechanics. The present study divided 66 elite baseball pitchers from the Open Biomechanics database into 3 groups based on AS angles: ASMi, ASMo, ASMa. The purpose of this study was to compare 30 kinematic and 10 kinetic differences between elite college baseball pitchers with different AS angles (reflective of pitching style) during pitching and to investigate the relationship between AS angle and selected shoulder and elbow kinetic parameters. The results of the study showed that the ASMa (67.31 +/- 6.88 degrees) had less trunk forward flexion and contralateral tilt at BR. Additionally, ASMa had significantly less elbow varus torque, greater elbow varus torque efficiency and shoulder internal rotation torque efficiency compared to the ASMi. AS angle had a significant negative correlation with elbow varus torque and a significant positive correlation with elbow varus torque and shoulder internal rotation torque efficiency, with an increase in elbow varus torque of approximately 4.23 N for every 10 degrees increase in AS angles. AS angles associated with pitching style affect shoulder and elbow joint loading and corresponding biomechanical efficiency in elite college pitchers.		[Dong, Maolin] Henan Univ, Coll Wushu, Zhengzhou, Henan, Peoples R China; [Li, Ming; Kim, Youngsuk; Kim, Sukwon] Jeonbuk Natl Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Jeonju, South Korea; [Qu, Qingling] Yichun Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Yichun, Jiangxi, Peoples R China; [Kim, Youngsuk; Kim, Sukwon] Jeonbuk Natl Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Jeonju, South Korea								3							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001388638000001	55	Article; Article		
J	Mcguigan, Mark; Dello Iacono, Antonio; Mcrobert, Allistair; Cowan, Daryl; Unnithan, Viswanath B.								Early player transition in elite youth and first team soccer: The predictive role of sprint distance and high-intensity acceleration and deceleration attributes								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	2			639	649		10.1177/17479541241303707			APR 2025	2025	Physical performance is an important determinant of elite youth soccer player development and can influence successful transition through the professional phase of the talent development pathway. In response to previous research highlighting key stakeholders' perceptions that successful transitions within the club pathway are influenced by sprinting capacity and explosive power; this study objectively quantified the predictive value of sprint distance and high intensity acceleration and deceleration efforts on the early transition of elite, professional youth soccer players from U18 to U21, and U21 to first team squads of a Scottish Premier League club. Early transition was defined as a player progressing to the next age group (i.e., U18 to U21) prior to reaching the chronological age limits of his current squad. Retrospective physical performance data of thirty-seven players from training and competitive matches across two seasons were analysed. Results suggest that early transition is less likely for players progressing from the U21 to the first team relative to players progressing from U18 to U21. Relative sprint distance resulted in a 52% probability of early transition (OR = 0.52) with relative aggregated high intensity acceleration and deceleration efforts reflecting an increased probability of early transition (OR = 1.70) for elite youth soccer players within the club. This novel study provides a unique insight to the complexities and context-specific nature of youth soccer player development and transition. This paper challenges the subjective perceptions of key stakeholders using objective physical data of youth players who have transitioned to advanced squads.		[Mcguigan, Mark; Dello Iacono, Antonio; Cowan, Daryl; Unnithan, Viswanath B.] Univ West Scotland, Sch Hlth & Life Sci, Lanarkshire Campus, Glasgow, Scotland; [Mcrobert, Allistair] Liverpool John Moores Univ, Sch Sport & Exercise Sci Liverpool, Liverpool, England; [Mcguigan, Mark] Univ West Scotland, Sch Hlth & Life Sci, Lanarkshire Campus, Glasgow, Scotland								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001379497000001	68	Article; Article		
J	Arslan, Birgul; Pinar, Salih; Ciloglu, Figen								The effects of two different concurrent training programs on specific performance, physiological and biochemical parameters in soccer players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	2			658	668		10.1177/17479541241298517			APR 2025	2025	The study examined the effects of two concurrent training models, one being an eight-week High-Intensity Interval Training (HIIT) and the other, High-Intensity Functional Training (HIFT) both with additional strength training (S), on physiological parameters (blood lactate concentration and heart rate), athlete's performance (maximal strength, explosive power, aerobic endurance, 20 m sprint), and biochemical outputs. The study involved a total of 21 young males playing with amateur soccer licenses for at least 2 years divided into three groups. One group received S + HIIT training, second group received S + HIFT training and the control group continued their soccer-specific training. Both the experimental and the control groups underwent pre- and post-tests and while only the experimental groups underwent an eight-week training program. Pre- and post-tests of the all the participants included measurements of body composition, adaptation studies, trial measurements, biochemical blood, aerobic endurance measurements, sprint tests, and strength measurements. The Mixed Design ANOVA analysis was utilized to examine the performance, physiological, and biochemical data of the participants before and after the experiment. Concurrent training models were effective in increasing athletic performance (VO2max, CMJ, 1RM bench press and Yo-Yo test) and physiological outcomes during recovery (HR, blood lactate, Borg Scale) compared to the control group with traditional training. There was no significant difference between the biochemical changes in the S + HIIT, S + HIFT and control groups during the trial period. In summary, both concurrent training (CT) models had positive effects on sports performance and physiological outcomes, but not on biochemical outcomes.		[Arslan, Birgul] Selcuk Univ, Sport Sci Fac, Konya, Turkiye; [Pinar, Salih] Fenerbahce Univ, Sport Sci Fac, Istanbul, Turkiye; [Ciloglu, Figen] Rumeli Univ, Sport Sci Fac, Istanbul, Turkiye; [Pinar, Salih] Fenerbahce Univ, Sport Sci Fac, Istanbul, Turkiye								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001379491500001	78	Article; Article		
J	Kellison, Timothy; Mccullough, Brian P.; Cianfrone, Beth A.; Pelcher, Jamee A.								Inter- and intra-team differences in professional sport fans' environmental attitudes								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				26	6			1	13		10.1108/IJSMS-07-2024-0174			DEC 13 2024	2024	PurposeSport has emerged as a powerful platform for promoting environmental awareness and action. Major collegiate and professional teams have implemented sustainability strategies, although some have hesitated to promote them out of concern for political polarization and fan alienation. This study aimed to examine differences in environmental attitudes among fans of two professional sport organizations competing in the same venue but in different sports.Design/methodology/approachSurvey data were collected from 2,652 season ticket holders of the two organizations. The survey included measures of environmental awareness, perceived behavioral control, ascriptions of responsibility, awareness of team initiatives and green team fandom. Participants' environmentalist status (active, passive or non-environmentalist) was also assessed. Analysis of variance was used to examine differences in environmental attitudes based on sport affiliation and environmentalist status.FindingsSignificant but small differences in environmental awareness and awareness of team initiatives based on sport affiliation were found. However, environmentalist status had a significant effect on environmental awareness, perceived behavioral control, ascriptions of responsibility and green team fandom, with active environmentalists scoring highest, followed by passive environmentalists and non-environmentalists. Surprisingly, fans' environmentalist status did not significantly impact their awareness of team sustainability initiatives. Non-environmentalists, a substantial portion of the sample, did not express particularly negative attitudes toward sustainability.Originality/valueThis study extends previous research by examining fan attitudes toward environmental sustainability. It challenges the assumption that promoting sustainability initiatives may alienate fans, particularly non-environmentalists, and highlights the potential for sport organizations to leverage their unifying power to promote environmental action among diverse fanbases.		[Kellison, Timothy] Florida State Univ, Tallahassee, FL 32306 USA; [Mccullough, Brian P.] Univ Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI USA; [Cianfrone, Beth A.] Georgia State Univ, Atlanta, GA USA; [Pelcher, Jamee A.] Jacksonville Univ, Jacksonville, FL USA; [Kellison, Timothy] Florida State Univ, Tallahassee, FL 32306 USA								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001374740900001	38	Article; Article		
J	Carstensen, Jeppe B.; Gaemelke, Tobias; Overgaard, Kristian; Andersen, Thomas B.								The effect of fatiguing muscle contractions on kicking performance in experienced soccer players								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				25	2			214	233		10.1080/14763141.2024.2433084			FEB 1 2026	2026	The objective of this study was to clarify the effects of fatiguing muscle contractions of the m. quadriceps femoris on kicking abilities of experienced soccer players. 16 male professional (n = 5) and amateur players (n = 11) performed kicking tests in two conditions (fatigue and control) on separate days in a randomised crossover design. The fatiguing protocol performed with the kicking leg consisted of 5 sets of 10 maximal voluntary concentric and eccentric knee extensions. Maximal voluntary isometric contraction force (MVIC), 15 hz/50 hz stimulation force ratio (force ratio), and kicking abilities were assessed before and after completion of the fatiguing protocol or rest (control). The fatiguing protocol successfully induced fatigue of 14.0 +/- 2.7% (mean +/- SE) reduced MVIC and 14.0 +/- 3.7% reduced force ratio while no reductions occurred in the control condition. Between group difference showed ball speed declined 2.1 +/- 0.95% more following the fatigue protocol compared to control condition. On the control day shooting accuracy improved by 13.3 +/- 5.6% and was numerically impaired on the intervention day by 1.0 +/- 9.2%. Despite this, no significant between group difference was observed in shooting accuracy (p = 0.18). The study demonstrated that fatigue induced by prior muscle contractions impairs maximal shooting speed, but we observed no significant impairment of shooting accuracy.		[Carstensen, Jeppe B.; Gaemelke, Tobias; Overgaard, Kristian; Andersen, Thomas B.] Aarhus Univ, Dept Publ Hlth, Sect Sports Sci, Aarhus, Denmark; [Carstensen, Jeppe B.] Aarhus Univ, Dept Publ Hlth, Sect Sports Sci, Aarhus, Denmark								4							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001370569700001	57	Article; Article		
J	Williams, Ashley; Murray, Andrew; Sorbie, Graeme G.								Epidemiology of injuries in UK based golfers: a retrospective study								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				53	2			152	158		10.1080/00913847.2024.2432859			MAR 4 2025	2025	ObjectivesGolf participation numbers have increased in recent years within the UK and globally. A recent systematic review and meta-analysis of injuries in amateur and professional golfers showed over half of golfers sustain an injury during their lifetime. This review recommended that future research should utilize the recent international consensus on reporting of injury in golf. The aim of this study was to determine the frequency and severity of injuries sustained by UK-based golfers in the previous year.MethodsA retrospective cross-sectional online survey consisting of 35 questions was disseminated to UK-based golfers. Non-overlapping 95% confidence intervals (CI) were utilized to indicate significant differences.ResultsThere were 303 participants included for analysis. The overall injury incidence was 41.26 injuries per 1000 hours (CI 35.96-47.33). Consistent with the wider literature, the lower back at 9.94 injuries per 1000 hours (CI 7.48-13.22) is the most frequent injury site. The lower back had a mean time loss of 54 +/- 89 days before full recovery. Repetitive movement injuries were noted to have a higher incidence (22.00 per 1000 hours, CI 18.19-26.61) in comparison to acute injuries (10.79 per 1000 hours, CI 8.21 to 14.18).ConclusionAnatomically, the proportion of injuries observed was comparable to previous epidemiology studies, with the lower back and elbow having the highest incidences in this largely amateur group of golfers. Most injuries were identified to be a muscle strain, joint sprain, or tendinopathy; however, no single identifiable mechanism of injury was identified.		[Williams, Ashley; Sorbie, Graeme G.] Abertay Univ, Fac Social & Apllied Sci, Dept Hlth Sport & Wellbeing, Dundee, Scotland; [Murray, Andrew] Univ Edinburgh, Sport & Exercise, UKCCIIS, Edinburgh, Scotland; [Murray, Andrew] DP World Tour, Med & Sci Dept, Virginia Water, England; [Williams, Ashley] Abertay Univ, Dept Hlth Sport & Wellbeing, Dundee DD1 1HG, Scotland								6							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001370013500001	40	Article; Article		
J	Zhao, Xuefeng; Lu, Minying								The Impact of Running-Based and Drop Jumping Interval Interventions on Cardiorespiratory Fitness and Anaerobic Power of Collegiate Volleyball Players: A Comparative Analysis of Inter-Individual Variability in the Adaptive Responses								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				23	4			863	871		10.52082/jssm.2024.863			DEC 2024	2024	This study compared inter-individual variability in the adaptive responses of cardiorespiratory fitness, anaerobic power, and motor abilities of male volleyball players to high-intensity interval training (HIIT) prescribed as repetitive drop jumps (interval jumping) and running-based intervals (interval running). Twentyfour collegiate volleyball players were equally randomized to two training groups executing 11 minutes of interval running or interval jumping during which they ran or repeated drop-jumps for 15 seconds, alternating with 15 seconds of passive recovery. Before and after the 6-week training period, aerobic fitness, cardiac function, and anaerobic power were evaluated using a graded exercise test, impedance cardiography, and a lower-body Wingate test, respectively. Additionally, linear speed, agility, and jumping tests determined motor abilities. Both interventions significantly enhanced maximum oxygen uptake (V. O2max), velocity associated with V. O2max, first and second ventilatory thresholds (VT1 & VT2), maximal cardiac output (Q. max), stroke volume (SVmax), peak and average power output, vertical jump, change of direction, and linear sprint speed. Interval jumping group demonstrated a significantly greater improvement in squat jump (p = 0.001; 95% CI: 2.51 - 5.42) and countermovement jump (p = 0.001; 95% CI: 2.11 - 4.61) compared to interval running group. Conversely, interval running group elicited a greater enhancement in sprint speed (p = 0.002; 95% CI: 2.53 - 5.71) than interval jumping group. Examining the individual residual in the adaptive responses revealed that interval running induced more homogenized adaptations across individuals in VT1 (p = 0.04; 95% CI: 0.03 - 1.33), Q(max) (p = 0.03; 95% CI: 0.04 - 1.64), SVmax (p = 0.04; 95% CI: 0.02 1.75), and maximal sprint speed (p = 0.01; 95% CI: 0.72 - 1.95) in contrast to interval jumping. However, the uniformity of adaptations in countermovement jump in response to interval jumping surpassed that of interval running (p = 0.02; 95% CI: 0.08 - 1.32). Although both training modalities effectively improved the mentioned variables concurrently, tailoring the HIIT intervention to the reference intensity and training modality specific for each quality may enhance measured quality.		[Zhao, Xuefeng; Lu, Minying] Putian Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Putian 351100, Peoples R China; [Lu, Minying] Putian Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Putian 351100, Peoples R China								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:001375302000007	42	Article; Article		
J	Kuzdzal, Adrian; Clemente, Filipe Manuel; Klich, Sebastian; Kawczynski, Adam; Trybulski, Robert								Combination of Manual Therapy and Dry Needling Effectively Improves Acute Neck Pain and Muscular Tone and Stiffness in Combat Sports Athletes: A Randomized Controlled Study								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				23	4			852	862		10.52082/jssm.2024.852			DEC 2024	2024	This study aimed to compare the effects of manual therapy combined with dry needling (MTDN) to a control group, focusing on the impact on pressure pain threshold (PPT), muscle tone (MT), muscle stiffness (MS), muscle strength, and range of motion in the neck muscles of adult combat sports athletes. A randomized controlled study design was employed, with one group of athletes (n = 15) receiving MTDN intervention, while the other group (n = 15) underwent a control treatment (CG) involving a quasi-needle technique combined with manual therapy. Both groups participated in three sessions, either in the MTDN intervention or the control condition. All athletes, who were experiencing neck pain, were evaluated at rest, after one session, after three sessions, and again 72 hours after the third session. Muscle tone (MT) and muscle stiffness (MS) were measured using myotonometry, pressure pain threshold (PPT) was assessed with an algesiometer, muscle strength was evaluated using a handheld dynamometer, and range of motion was measured with an electronic goniometer. Group comparisons revealed significantly higher MT in CG compared to MTDN after the 3rd session (p < 0.001; d = 1.50). Additionally, CG showed significantly greater MS than MTDN after the 3rd session (p < 0.001; d = 1.75) and at 72 hours post-session (p < 0.001; d = 2.45). Conversely, MTDN exhibited significantly greater PPT than CG at 72 hours post-session (p < 0.001; d = 1.80). Our results suggest that MTDN is significantly more effective in improving muscle tone, stiffness, and acute pain compared to manual therapy alone. However, no significant impact was observed on maximal strength or neck range of motion. A combined approach may offer benefits by more rapidly reducing neck pain and better preparing muscle properties for future activities.		[Kuzdzal, Adrian] Univ Rzeszow, Inst Hlth Sci, Coll Med Sci, Rzeszow, Poland; [Clemente, Filipe Manuel; Kawczynski, Adam] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, Dept Biomech & Sport Engn, PL-80336 Gdansk, Poland; [Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Inst Politecn Viana do Castelo, Escola Super Desporto & Lazer, Rua Escola Ind & Comercial Nun Alvares, P-4900347 Viana Do Castelo, Portugal; [Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Sport Phys Act & Hlth Res Innovat Ctr, Viana Do Castelo, Portugal; [Klich, Sebastian] Wroclaw Univ Hlth & Sport Sci, Dept Paralymp Sport, Wroclaw, Poland; [Trybulski, Robert] Upper Silesian Acad, Med Dept Wojciech Korfanty, Katowice, Poland; [Trybulski, Robert] Provita Zory Med Ctr, Zory, Poland; [Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Inst Politecn Viana do Castelo, Escola Super Desporto & Lazer, Rua Escola Ind & Comercial Nun Alvares, P-4900347 Viana Do Castelo, Portugal								8							Sport Sciences	WOS:001375302000006	53	Article; Article		
J	Rong, Bo; Xiu, Chen								Effects of Cluster vs. Traditional Sets Complex Training on Physical Performance Adaptations of Trained Male Volleyball Players								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				23	4			822	833		10.52082/jssm.2024.822			DEC 2024	2024	This study aimed to examine the impact of different set configurations during combination of resistance and plyometric training (complex [COX]) on jumping ability, power output, strength, and hormonal adaptations in young male volleyball players after a 6-week training period. A randomized controlled trial was conducted with twenty-four trained male volleyball players under the age of 19, who were assigned to one of two groups for lower-body COX training: cluster sets (CS-COX: n = 8) or traditional sets (TS-COX: n = 8), with an additional active control group (CON: n = 8). The players underwent evaluations for countermovement vertical jump (CMVJ), spike jump (SPJ), T-test change of direction speed (T-test CODS), one repetition maximum (1RM) in the back squat and leg press, and the Wingate Anaerobic Test before and after the 6-week training intervention (12 sessions in total). Blood samples were also collected before and after training to assess resting testosterone and cortisol responses. Following the training, both the CS-COX and TS-COX groups exhibited significantly greater (p = 0.001) changes than the CON group in the variables, while similar improvements in maximal strength, mean power output, and testosterone adaptations were observed following the training (p < 0.05). Moreover, the CS-COX group demonstrated greater improvements in CMVJ (effect size [ES] = 0.36), SPJ (ES = 0.06), T-test CODS (ES = -0.60), and peak power output (ES = 0.72), along with greater reductions in resting cortisol (ES = -0.30) levels compared to the TS-COX group after the 6-week intervention (p < 0.05). In conclusion, the results indicate that incorporating cluster sets during COX training sessions led to more favorable changes in bio-motor ability, peak power output, and cortisol adaptations, with greater consistency and uniformity in adaptations among the players compared to traditional set configurations.		[Rong, Bo] Cent South Univ Forestry & Technol, Changsha 410004, Hunan, Peoples R China; [Xiu, Chen] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Athlet Performance, Shanghai 200438, Peoples R China; [Xiu, Chen] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Athlet Performance, Shanghai 200438, Peoples R China								8							Sport Sciences	WOS:001363114500001	38	Article; Article		
J	Rumeau, Valentin; Grospretre, Sidney; Babault, Nicolas								The Combination of Motor Imagery and Post-Activation Performance Enhancement is Efficient to Emphasize the Effects of Warm-Up on Sport-Specific Performance								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				23	4			834	842		10.52082/jssm.2024.834			DEC 2024	2024	Motor imagery (MI) or post-activation performance enhancement (PAPE) have shown acute benefits for sports performance. The aim of the present study was to investigate the cumulative effects of MI and PAPE when combined within a warm-up routine. Ten men boxers participated in this study. They underwent four experimental sessions composed of a standardized warm-up followed by 1) maximal leg press extensions (CONTROL-PAPE), 2) mental imagery of force and sprint tasks (CONTROL-MI), 3) maximal leg press extensions followed by mental imagery of force and sprint tasks (PAPE-MI) and 4) mental imagery of force and sprint tasks followed by then maximal leg press extensions (MI-PAPE). Post-tests consisted of boxing reaction time, average and maximal boxing force, maximal handgrip strength, repeated sprint ability and the NASA-TLX fatigue questionnaire. No difference was obtained between PAPE-MI and MI-PAPE for the different measurements. Compared to CONTROL-PAPE and CONTROL-MI, both the PAPE-MI and MI-PAPE significantly enhanced boxing average force (P < 0.05) and repeated sprint ability (P < 0.01). Compared to CONTROL-PAPE, both the PAPE-MI and MI-PAPE increased boxing reaction time (P < 0.05), PAPE-MI increased the handgrip strength (P < 0.05) and MI-PAPE increased boxing maximal force (P < 0.01). Compared to CONTROL-MI, both the PAPE-MI and MI-PAPE increased boxing maximal force (P < 0.001), handgrip strength (0 < 0.01) and MI-PAPE increased boxing reaction time (P < 0.05). The NASA-TLX questionnaire was not affected by the warm-up modalities (P = 0.442). Combining PAPE-MI and MI-PAPE protocols within the warm-up produced cumulative positive effects on acute muscular performance without increasing subjective fatigue. PAPE-MI and MI-PAPE are both interesting modalities for optimizing warm-up routines.		[Rumeau, Valentin; Babault, Nicolas] Univ Bourgogne, INSERM, UFR Sci Sport, UMR1093 CAPS, Dijon, France; [Grospretre, Sidney] Univ Franche Comte, EA4660 C3S, UFR Sci Sport, Besancon, France; [Grospretre, Sidney] Inst Univ France IUF, Paris, France; [Babault, Nicolas] Univ Bourgogne, Ctr Expertise Performance, UFR Sci Sport, Dijon, France; [Rumeau, Valentin] Univ Bourgogne, Faculte Sci Sport, BP 27877, F-21078 Dijon, France								7							Sport Sciences	WOS:001363114600001	39	Article; Article		
J	Zhang, Xueying; Ren, Weiyan; Wang, Xingyue; Yao, Jie; Pu, Fang								Quantitative Analysis of Quadriceps Forces in Adolescent Females during Running with Infrapatellar Straps								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				23	4			787	798		10.52082/jssm.2024.787			DEC 2024	2024	Osgood-Schlatter disease (OSD) is caused by high, repetitive, and continuous traction exerted by the quadriceps on the tibial tuberosity, primarily occurring in adolescents. Infrapatellar straps are commonly recommended for its prevention and treatment, yet their impact on quadriceps forces in adolescents remains unstudied. Furthermore, current research on OSD predominantly focuses on adolescent males, with limited attention to adolescent females, despite similar incidence rates in both groups. This study aimed to quantify the quadriceps forces during running, both with and without infrapatellar straps, in adolescent females. Kinematic data, ground reaction forces, and electromyography (EMG) data of knee muscles from 16 adolescent females were recorded as they ran at self-selected speeds with and without infrapatellar straps. OpenSim was employed to estimate quadriceps activations and forces, from which accumulated forces were derived. The simulation's reliability was validated by calculating the correlation between muscle activations obtained from OpenSim and EMG data, which revealed a strong correlation. Wearing infrapatellar straps during running decreased the peak and accumulated forces of the quadriceps (p < 0.001, and p < 0.001, respectively). The significant reduction in accumulated forces was associated with decreased vastus muscle forces during the stance phase (p = 0.002, p = 0.003, and p = 0.016 for vastus lateralis, vastus medialis, and vastus intermedius, respectively). The use of infrapatellar straps had limited effect on the rectus femoris muscle forces. The reliability of the simulation was validated through EMG data. Wearing infrapatellar straps may reduce the load exerted on the tibial tuberosity by decreasing vastus muscle forces during the stance phase. Adolescents aiming to reduce excessive rectus femoris muscle forces due to a shortened or tight rectus femoris, which may contribute to the occurrence of OSD, might experience limited benefits from wearing infrapatellar straps.		[Zhang, Xueying; Wang, Xingyue; Yao, Jie; Pu, Fang] Beihang Univ, Beijing Adv Innovat Ctr Biomed Engn, Sch Biol Sci & Med Engn,Minist Civil Affairs, Key Lab Human Motion Anal & Rehabil Technol, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Ren, Weiyan] Beihang Univ, Sch Engn Med, Key Lab Biomechan & Mechanobiol, Minist Educ, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Pu, Fang] Beihang Univ, State Key Lab Virtual Real Technol & Syst, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Yao, Jie; Pu, Fang] Beihang Univ, Sch Biol Sci & Med Engn, Beijing, Peoples R China								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:001362522200001	56	Article; Article		
J	Turner, Anthony N.								What Is Evidence-Based Practice in Strength and Conditioning?								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				46	6			725	728		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000840			DEC 2024	2024	As the field of strength and conditioning (S&C) continues to grow, there are noticeable increases in jobs, salaries, research, and media coverage of malpractice; it is therefore prudent to define evidence-based practice (EBP) for S&C coaches. In line with clinicians and medical practitioners, this will help guide best practice and inform stakeholders on the design process of the various training and testing interventions implemented, to improve the physical capacity of athletes. Thus, the aim of this article is to define EBP in S&C, and in doing so, the following definition was provided: In strength and conditioning, evidence-based practice involves integrating scientific research with coach expertise such that the individual needs of athletes are met in terms of physicality, values, preferences, and constraints.		[Turner, Anthony N.] Middlesex Univ, London Sports Inst, Stone 10 Stadium,Greenlands Lane, London, England; [Turner, Anthony N.] Middlesex Univ, London Sports Inst, Stone 10 Stadium,Greenlands Lane, London, England								6							Sport Sciences	WOS:001367696100005	9	Article; Article		
J	Kowalski, Tomasz; Granda, Dominika; Klusiewicz, Andrzej								Practical Application of Respiratory Muscle Training in Endurance Sports								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				46	6			686	695		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000842			DEC 2024	2024	Since traditional sport-specific training or exercise programs do not create enough stimulus to improve the function of the respiratory muscles, the rationale to introduce respiratory muscle training (RMT) emerged. RMT is associated with improved endurance performance and pulmonary function, and it reduced respiratory fatigue, perceived exertion, or breathlessness. The purpose of this article is to provide coaches with tools to select the appropriate form of RMT in the context of the athletes' needs, using appropriate methods, techniques, devices, and testing protocols. The video abstract is presented in Supplemental Digital Content as SDC 1.		[Kowalski, Tomasz] Natl Res Inst, Dept Physiol, Inst Sport, Warsaw, Poland; [Granda, Dominika] Natl Res Inst, Dept Nutr Physiol & Dietet, Inst Sport, Warsaw, Poland; [Klusiewicz, Andrzej] Jozef Pilsudski Univ Phys Educ Warsaw, Fac Phys Educ & Sport Biala Podlaska, Dept Physiol & Biochem, Warsaw, Poland; [Kowalski, Tomasz] Natl Res Inst, Dept Physiol, Inst Sport, Warsaw, Poland								22							Sport Sciences	WOS:001367696100003	89	Article; Article		
J	Anderski, Matthias; Stegmann, Pascal; Dickson, Geoff; Stroebel, Tim								The role of athlete brands for the international marketing of professional sports leagues: a case study of the German Bundesliga in Asia								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				26	3			393	411		10.1108/IJSMS-07-2024-0162			OCT 10 2025	2025	PurposeThis study investigates the role of athlete brands for the international marketing of professional sports leagues by examining how athlete brands contribute to initiatives of football leagues.Design/methodology/approachThrough a single case study of the German Bundesliga underpinned by 17 semi-structured interviews with league, club and media executives, we identify specific brand co-creation opportunities of athlete brands and the sports league brand.FindingsOur findings reveal that athlete brands play a significant role in enhancing league visibility, engaging global audiences and unlocking new markets. Moreover, we identify specific opportunities for co-creating league brand meaning through strategic partnerships and athlete endorsements.Originality/valueThis research contributes to the literature by highlighting the importance of athlete brands in sports league marketing and offering insights for practitioners on innovative marketing strategies. Using a multi-actor perspective, this study provides valuable insights by revealing how sports leagues can pursue innovative marketing strategies by considering the role of athlete brands, thereby offering new ways for fans and sponsors to engage with the sports league.		[Anderski, Matthias; Stegmann, Pascal; Stroebel, Tim] Univ Bayreuth, Dept Mkt & Sport Management, Bayreuth, Germany; [Anderski, Matthias; Dickson, Geoff] La Trobe Univ, La Trobe Business Sch, Melbourne, Australia; [Stegmann, Pascal] Univ Bern, Inst Sport Sci, Bern, Switzerland; [Anderski, Matthias] Univ Bayreuth, Dept Mkt & Sport Management, Bayreuth, Germany								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001364742100001	75	Article; Article		
J	Licen, Simon; Cermelj, Nastja								Promotion of the 2022 Olympic Winter Games on Chinese and Western social media								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				26	1			181	203		10.1108/IJSMS-06-2024-0125			FEB 19 2025	2025	Purpose - The 2022 Olympic Winter Games in Beijing were the first sporting mega-event held in a country that limits access to popular Western social networks. Since both domestic and international audiences were crucial for the organizers, the purpose of this study was to identify similarities and differences in content published and engagement generated on the event's official social media accounts in the months preceding the Olympics. Design/methodology/approach - For 1,200 consecutive original posts published on Facebook, Sina Weibo and Twitter, we coded the time of publication, motivation targeted by the message according to Raney's typology of motivations for sport spectatorship, multimedia additions and number of likes/reactions, comments and shares. Findings - All accounts were dominated by posts targeting cognitive motivations. The Weibo profile was much more active and followed. There, 71.5% of content conveyed learning, while the most engaging content provided entertainment.Content onWestern networks wasmore varied but virtually duplicated across networks. The most engaging posts targeted euphoric stress, escape and aesthetic pleasure. Comparable content elicited different engagement onChinese and Western socialmedia. Graphics and video were themost engaging features on all networks; polls were the least engaging. Research limitations/implications - Agenda-setting effects of social media content differ across cultures and are co-created by user comments. Originality/value - To the best ofthe authors' knowledge, thisisthe first cross-cultural comparison of pre-event social media promotion by non-Western sporting mega-event hosts. Organizers diversified content strategies to cater to different audiences and pursue different policy goals. We proved cultural differences in content preference and engagement and showed the relevance of Raney's typology of sport spectatorship for social media		[Licen, Simon] Washington State Univ, Dept Educ Leadership & Sport Management, Pullman, WA 99163 USA; [Cermelj, Nastja] Univ Primorska, Fac Tourism Studies Turist, Portoroz, Slovenia; [Licen, Simon] Washington State Univ, Dept Educ Leadership & Sport Management, Pullman, WA 99163 USA								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001363402000001	65	Article; Article		
J	Jacobs, Katho; De Jans, Steffi; Evens, Tom; Constandt, Bram								In the arena of debate: a systematic literature review on sports sponsorship by controversial industries								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				26	1			204	225		10.1108/IJSMS-07-2024-0155			FEB 19 2025	2025	Purpose - This systematic literature review examines the domain of sports sponsorship involving controversial industries. We delve into the shared patterns, differences and overarching themes prevalent across various dark consumption industries (i.e. alcohol, food and beverages high in fat, salt and sugar, gambling and tobacco). Design/methodology/approach - This study systematically reviews research on controversial sports sponsorships (CSS). Literature searches in Web of Science and Scopus, and additional searches in reference lists resulted in a total of 90 publications meeting the inclusion criteria, which can be grouped into three research clusters: prevalence, impact and (in)appropriateness of CSS. Findings - This review revealed a high prevalence of so-called controversial sponsors in sports, particularly in - but certainly not limited to - soccer. Especially gambling sponsorships have become more prominent in recent years. Ethical concerns surfaced since CSS are positively related to attitudes, preferences, purchase intention and consumption, potentially causing health-harming consequences for children and adults. Practical implications - This study provides scholars and practitioners with insights to advocate for policy measures curbing CSS. Originality/value - In light of the identified research gaps, we propose a research agenda to particularly investigate causal relationships between exposure to CSS and its impact by conducting longitudinal and experimental research. Additionally, we propose to establish a consumer-centered framework for processing CSS.		[Jacobs, Katho; De Jans, Steffi; Evens, Tom] Univ Ghent, Dept Commun Sci, Ghent, Belgium; [Jacobs, Katho; Constandt, Bram] Univ Ghent, Dept Movement & Sports Sci, Ghent, Belgium; [Evens, Tom] Interuniv Microelect Ctr IMEC, Leuven, Belgium; [Jacobs, Katho] Univ Ghent, Dept Commun Sci, Ghent, Belgium; [Jacobs, Katho] Univ Ghent, Dept Movement & Sports Sci, Ghent, Belgium								11							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001362837400001	113	Article; Article		
J	Lindsay, Cody; Crowther, Rian; Middleton, Kane; Clark, Brad; Warmenhoven, John; Spratford, Wayne								Impart backspin and pitch the ball up: strategies cricket fast bowlers can employ to generate late swing								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	8			2149	2165		10.1080/14763141.2024.2431919			AUG 3 2025	2025	In cricket fast bowling, late swing can increase interception difficulty for opposition batters. However, little is known about the occurrence and cause of late swing. This study investigated ball kinematics and the effect of changing kinematics on late swing with new cricket balls. Markers were placed on the ball to track the trajectory and calculate kinematics u1sing a motion analysis system. Fast bowlers generated varying ball kinematics (linear velocity, angular velocity and seam orientation) and delivery trajectories. A random intercept linear mixed-effects model identified that decreasing ball velocity (release velocity: effect = 0.21, p = 0.051, and pitch velocity: effect = -0.27, p = 0.011) and increasing seam stability (release stability: effect = -0.02, p < 0.001 and pitch stability: effect = 0.02, p = 0.001) were associated with greater late swing. To achieve these changes and create late swing, bowlers can pitch the ball on a full length and impart a large amount of backspin on the ball. However, swing can be influenced by factors such as wind and ball composition and late swing may be difficult to control. Bowlers and coaches should develop strategies to generate late swing but recognise it may be unpredictable in some situations.		[Lindsay, Cody] Flinders Univ S Australia, Coll Nursing & Hlth Sci, Exercise Sci, Bedford Pk, Australia; [Lindsay, Cody; Clark, Brad; Spratford, Wayne] Univ Canberra, Res Inst Sport & Exercise, Canberra, ACT, Australia; [Crowther, Rian] Natl Cricket Ctr, Cricket Australia, Albion, Qld, Australia; [Crowther, Rian] Queensland Univ Technol, Sport Student Serv & Wellbeing, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [Middleton, Kane] La Trobe Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Human Serv & Sport, Sport Performance & Nutr Res Grp, Bundoora, Vic, Australia; [Warmenhoven, John] Univ Technol Sydney, Sch Sport Exercise & Rehabil, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Lindsay, Cody] Flinders Univ S Australia, Coll Nursing & Hlth Sci, Exercise Sci, Bedford Pk, Australia; [Lindsay, Cody] Univ Canberra, Res Inst Sport & Exercise, Canberra, ACT, Australia								2							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001361558500001	37	Article; Article		
J	Park, Kwangho; Koo, Gi-Yong; Kim, Minkil; Kim, Sanghoon								Consumer adoption of virtual reality for spectator sport: an adopter categorization based on the diffusion of innovation and uses and gratification theories								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				26	2			343	370		10.1108/IJSMS-04-2023-0059			APR 22 2025	2025	Purpose - The purpose of this study is to (1) identify the factors that affect the adoption of virtual reality (VR) for spectator sports, (2) examine the differences in the factors among the four adopter categories (i.e. continuers, discontinuers, potentials and resistors) and (3) determine whether these factors are useful for discriminating among the adopter categories, based on the "diffusion of innovation" and "uses and gratification" theories. Design/methodology/approach - In total, 216 participants were included in the analysis. Logistic regression and multiple analyses of variance were conducted to identify the factors that affect the adoption of VRS and examine the differences in the factors between adopter and non-adopter as well as between the continuers, discontinuers, potentials and resistors. Findings - This study found that actualized innovativeness, complexity, companionship and gender significantly affect user adoption of VR for spectator sports. There were significant differences in the factors among the four adopter categories. The factors were also useful in discriminating between the four adopter categories. Originality/value - This study highlights how individuals embrace emerging technologies differently based on their adopter category characteristics. From a marketing perspective, the insights gained from this study can inform the development of targeted strategies, campaigns and user experiences for VR spectator sports (VRS). This approach promises new revenue streams for the spectator sport industry and offers solutions to challenges like declining viewership and digital marginalization. It underscores the potential success of VR technology in transforming the spectator sport industry.		[Park, Kwangho] Citadel The Mil Coll South Carolina, Dept Hlth & Human Performance, Charleston, SC USA; [Koo, Gi-Yong; Kim, Minkil] Troy Univ, Sch Hospitality Sport & Tourism Management, Troy, AL USA; [Kim, Sanghoon] Michigan State Univ, Dept Kinesiol, E Lansing, MI 48824 USA; [Kim, Sanghoon] Michigan State Univ, Dept Kinesiol, E Lansing, MI 48824 USA								9							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001361619900001	105	Article; Article		
J	Spitz, Robert W.; Wong, Vickie; Yamada, Yujiro; Kataoka, Ryo; Song, Jun Seob; Hammert, William B.; Seffrin, Aldo; Bell, Zachary W.; Loenneke, Jeremy P.								The Effect of Isometric Handgrip Training With and Without Blood Flow Restriction on Changes in Resting Blood Pressure								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				96	2			418	425		10.1080/02701367.2024.2418567			APR 3 2025	2025	To investigate the effects of high-intensity contractions and low-intensity contractions with and without blood flow restriction on changes in blood pressure and hemodynamic parameters. A total of 179 participants (18-35 years) were randomly assigned to one of three training groups that exercised 3 times per week for six weeks or a non-exercise control group. The groups are as follows: 1) Control [CON, n = 44]; 2) completed 4 sets of two-minute isometric contractions at 30% maximal voluntary contraction [LI, n = 47]; 3) completed 4 sets of two-minute isometric contractions at 30% maximal voluntary contraction with a 12 cm cuff inflated to 50% of arterial occlusion pressure [LI+BFR, n = 41]; or 4) completed 4 maximal isometric contractions lasting 5 seconds [MAX, n = 47]. Blood pressure, vascular resistance, and reactive hyperemia were measured at pre and post. Data are presented as means (SD). There was no evidence that SBP (BF10: 0.066), DBP (BF10: 0.057), vascular resistance (BF10: 0.085), or peak reactive hyperemia changed (BF10: 0.044) or A.U.C. (BF10: 0.074). Change scores for SBP were 1.1 (6.7), 0.7 (5.8), -0.4 (6.5), and -0.9 (6.3) mmHg for CON, LI, LI+BFR, and MAX, respectively. DBP change scores were 1.5 (6.6), 1.5 (7), -0.7 (5.9), and 0.3 (6.3) mmHg for CON, LI, LI+BFR, and MAX, respectively. Although recommended as a non-pharmacological method of blood pressure control, isometric exercise with or without BFR did not lower blood pressure. Future work could examine the inclusion of a daily strength test prior to the low intensity protocol.		[Spitz, Robert W.] Univ Mississippi, Med Ctr, Jackson, MS USA; [Wong, Vickie] Solent Univ, Southampton, England; [Yamada, Yujiro; Kataoka, Ryo; Hammert, William B.; Loenneke, Jeremy P.] Univ Mississippi, University, MS 38677 USA; [Song, Jun Seob] Texas A&M Univ San Antonio, San Antonio, TX USA; [Seffrin, Aldo] Univ Fed Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Bell, Zachary W.] Univ Houston Clear Lake, Houston, TX USA; [Loenneke, Jeremy P.] Univ Mississippi, Dept Hlth Exercise Sci & Recreat Management, Kevser Ermin Appl Physiol Lab, 642 All Amer Dr,Turner Ctr 246, University, MS 38677 USA								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001359402300001	40	Article; Article		
J	Liu, Lingjun; Chen, Zhenxiang; Peng, Hsien-Te; Zhao, Defeng; Tan, Zhizong								Analysing trunk and arm motion in volleyball jump serve: a comparison of straight line and diagonal line techniques								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	7			2119	2133		10.1080/14763141.2024.2423097			JUL 3 2025	2025	This study aimed to clarify the disparities in trunk rotation and attack arm movement and their effect on hand kinematics adjustments between straight-line (SL) and diagonal-line (DL) volleyball jump serves. Thirteen male professional volleyball players (age 21.53 +/- 5.39 years, height 1.95 +/- 0.06 m, body mass 86.48 +/- 11.63 kg, experience 8.61 +/- 3.47 years) performed SL and DL jump serve, with three-dimensional coordinate data captured using a motion capture system (200 hz). Paired t-test and statistical parametric mapping examined kinematic differences between the two serving directions. At ball contact (BC), the speed of the attack arm hand was significantly faster in DL (16.99 +/- 1.36 m/s) compared to SL (16.37 +/- 1.53 m/s), whereas the face angle was significantly smaller in DL (1.98 +/- 11.75 degrees) than in SL (17.60 +/- 17.98 degrees). Forward rotation angles of the pelvic and upper torso at BC were significantly greater in DL (28.47 +/- 10.89 degrees; 21.30 +/- 10.25 degrees) than in SL (18.27 +/- 12.46 degrees; 9.09 +/- 14.41 degrees). During the arm swing phase, the pelvic's forward rotation angles in DL were significantly greater than in SL at 42-72% spiking motion, and the upper torso's angles were significantly greater at 49-58% spiking motion. These findings underscore the importance of adjusting pelvic and upper torso rotations to control the hand's face angle when serving in the diagonal line.		[Liu, Lingjun; Chen, Zhenxiang; Zhao, Defeng; Tan, Zhizong] Shanghai Antidoping Agcy, Shanghai Res Inst Sports Sci, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Chen, Zhenxiang] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Athlet Performance, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Peng, Hsien-Te] Chinese Culture Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Taipei, Taiwan; [Chen, Zhenxiang] Shanghai Antidoping Agcy, Shanghai Res Inst Sports Sci, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Chen, Zhenxiang] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Athlet Performance, Shanghai, Peoples R China								15							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001358528800001	27	Article; Article		
J	Dixon, Andrew J.; Littlewood, Martin A.; Cronin, Colum J.; Twist, Craig; Close, Graeme L.								Physical collisions during elite rugby league match play and training: A stakeholder's perspective								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	1			210	224		10.1177/17479541241296978			FEB 1 2025	2025	The purpose of this study was to explore rugby league stakeholders' perspectives of the tackle event, utilising qualitative approaches to gain further insight into this phenomenon. Nineteen stakeholders, comprising tactical coaches (n=5), physiotherapists (n=5), doctors (n=5) and strength and conditioning coaches (n=4) from every European 2023 Super League team (ESL), were recruited to participate in an online semi-structured interview, via the Microsoft Teams platform, facilitated by a moderator. Braun and Clarke's (2019) reflexive thematic analysis was performed to code and analyse the transcribed data; this established pattern-based interpretation and reporting from the dataset. The research findings can be divided into five crucial segments that illuminate our understanding of collision in rugby league: 1) simultaneous contact and the three-person tackle, 2) tackle height - calibration is critical, 3) the fundamental factors influencing tackle-related risks. 4) the graded exposure and philosophical approaches to contact training and games, 5) replacing toughness with resilience - the impact of game identity. The themes generated here provide comprehensive insights into stakeholders' perceptions of the optimal ways to perform collisions. This has implications for the identity of the game, and the subsequent law changes/ behavioural change models that aim to make the game safer, specific to rugby league. In line with previous research, the conclusions underline high-risk events in match play (blind-sided collisions and fatigue), providing a focus for areas of future research. Lastly, psychology in the tackle event is explored, highlighting the need for graded contact exposure from a physical and psychological perspective during tackle technique training.		[Dixon, Andrew J.; Littlewood, Martin A.; Cronin, Colum J.; Twist, Craig; Close, Graeme L.] Liverpool John Moores Univ, Res Inst Sport & Exercise Sci, Tom Reilly Bldg,Byrom St, Liverpool L3 3AF, Merseyside, England; [Close, Graeme L.] Liverpool John Moores Univ, Res Inst Sport & Exercise Sci, Tom Reilly Bldg,Byrom St, Liverpool L3 3AF, Merseyside, England								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001357913000001	78	Article; Article		
J	Goodrum, Morven; Viljoen, Carel; Kaulback, Kelly								Incidence, severity, and risk factors for injuries in female trail runners - A retrospective cross-sectional study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				71				1	7		10.1016/j.ptsp.2024.11.004			JAN 2025	2025	Objectives: To determine the incidence, severity, and nature of injuries sustained by female trail runners and investigate selected training variables as risk factors for injuries. Design: Cross-sectional, retrospective cohort study. Setting: Online questionnaire (Jisc Online Surveys). Participants: Female trail runners (n = 62) aged 39.1 +/- 12.4 years. Main outcome measures: Training metrics (average weekly number of running sessions, mileage (km), session duration (mins), pace (min/km), ascent (m) and descent (m), number of running doubles per week, number of cross training doubles per week, type of cross training), incidence, severity and nature of trail running injuries sustained in the previous 12 months. Results: The injury incidence was 14.3 injuries per 1000 h and mean severity score (OSTRC- H) was 80.95 +/- 21.74. The main anatomical region affected was the lower limb (63.4%), primarily the ankle (13.9%), knee (13.0%) and lower leg (12.2%). The most common injury was tendinopathy (25.2%). A higher number of injuries sustained in the previous 12 months was weakly associated with a higher average duration of other (not trail) weekly running sessions (p = 0.017). Conclusions: Findings from this study could inform future injury prevention and treatment strategies. Prospective, longitudinal data on injuries in female trail runners is needed.		[Goodrum, Morven; Kaulback, Kelly] St Marys Univ, Fac Sport Technol & Hlth Sci, London, England; [Viljoen, Carel] Univ Pretoria, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Physiotherapy, Pretoria, South Africa; [Kaulback, Kelly] St Marys Univ, Fac Sport Technol & Hlth Sci, London, England								5							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001361103600001	28	Article; Article		
J	Ryuh, Yonjoong; Geschwender, Cole; Kim, Joonhee; Becker, Kevin								The Distance Effect in Focus of Attention: Spatial or Temporal Distance?								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				96	2			401	406		10.1080/02701367.2024.2413860			APR 3 2025	2025	Purpose: The benefit of an external focus over an internal focus has been well-established. Within this literature, several studies have documented a distal effect of attentional focus by comparing the efficacy of a proximal and distal external focus. A potential confound is that most distal focus cues direct the performer's attention to an outcome occurring after the completion of movement, while the proximal cues direct attention to something that occurs during the movement process. This study aims to disentangle whether the distal effect of attentional focus comes from spatial distance (proximal vs. distal) or temporal distance (during vs. after). Method: To test this, we employed a two-handed underhand medicine ball throw for maximum distance with 38 healthy young adults. This study employed five conditions: baseline, internal-during, internal-after, external-during, and external-after focus. Results: The result indicated that both external-during and -after foci elicited a significantly greater throwing distance than internal-during (p = .006) and internal-after (p < .001), where internal-after even significantly underperformed than baseline (p = .02). Conclusion: Our findings indicate that using an outcome cue unrelated to the intended action does not enhance motor performance. Rather, the most effective approach is to use an external cue that represents the action effect either during or after the movement.		[Ryuh, Yonjoong] Sonoma State Univ, Richmond, CA USA; [Geschwender, Cole] Ball State Univ, Muncie, IN USA; [Kim, Joonhee] Kwangwoon Univ, Seoul, South Korea; [Becker, Kevin] Univ Tennessee, Knoxville, TN USA; [Ryuh, Yonjoong] Sonoma State Univ, Dept Kinesiol, 1801 East Cotati Ave, Rohnert Pk, CA 94928 USA								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001359988300001	27	Article; Article		
J	van den Tillaar, Roland; Uthoff, Aaron								Acute effects of different loading protocols upon performance and kinematics of 180 degrees change of direction								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				25	2			199	213		10.1080/14763141.2024.2427692			FEB 1 2026	2026	This study examined the acute effects of different loading protocols on 180 degrees change of direction (COD) performance in eleven male handball players. Participants performed a 10-0-5 COD test under seven conditions: without an external load, and with 3, 6, and 9 kg loads applied under two modes-assisted into the COD and resisted out of it and resisted into the COD and assisted out of it. While total COD time was not affected (p = 0.098; eta(2) = 0.16), significant phase effects were observed (p < 0.001; eta(2) >= 0.55). Loading protocols significantly influenced velocity, acceleration, and their distances from COD (p < 0.001; eta(2) >= 0.37). Significant phase effects were observed for all step kinematic variables (p <= 0.037; eta(2) >= 0.67), except contact time, and significant interaction (phase*condition) effects for all variables (p <= 0.004; eta(2) >= 0.08), except for step frequency. Assisted-resisted protocols increased deceleration demands through higher COD entry velocities, displaying fewer but longer steps in the acceleration phase and greater steps taken during the deceleration phase. Resisted-assisted protocols decreased deceleration demands due to lower COD entry velocities, displaying shorter, but more steps taken in the acceleration phase, and fewer steps taken in the deceleration phase. These findings suggest that assisted-resisted and resisted-assisted loading protocols can be used to selectively overload specific phases of COD performance.		[van den Tillaar, Roland] Nord Univ, Dept Sports Sci & Phys Educ, Levanger, Norway; [van den Tillaar, Roland; Uthoff, Aaron] Auckland Univ Technol, Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand SPRINZ, Auckland, New Zealand; [van den Tillaar, Roland] Nord Univ, Dept Sports Sci & Phys Educ, Levanger, Norway; [van den Tillaar, Roland] Auckland Univ Technol, Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand SPRINZ, Auckland, New Zealand								2							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001355786400001	44	Article; Article		
J	Homoto, Kenta; Gonjo, Tomohiro; Takagi, Hideki; Kudo, Shigetada; Sengoku, Yasuo; Tsunokawa, Takaaki; Koga, Daiki; Homma, Miwako								Does the flutter kick increase hand propulsion in front crawl swimming?								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				25	2			185	198		10.1080/14763141.2024.2424386			FEB 1 2026	2026	This study aimed to investigate the effect of the flutter kick on the propulsive force generated by a stroke. Eight male swimmers performed 20 m front crawl trials under two conditions: the Whole Condition, involving maximum effort (T100%) and stroke frequencies at 70, 80, and 90% of T100%, and the Arm Condition, which excluded the flutter kick and matched stroke frequencies with the Whole Condition. Various parameters, including swimming velocity, stroke frequency, stroke length, three-dimensional (3D) resultant hand speed, and hand propulsion were calculated based on underwater 3D motion analysis and hand pressure distribution measurements. A two-way repeated-measures ANOVA was conducted to assess differences, considering the conditions and instructed frequencies as the two factors. There was no significant interaction between the condition and intensity for any of the variables. There was a significant main effect of condition on swimming velocity and stroke length, with these variables being 16.9-18.5% higher and 17.3-19.5% longer, respectively, in the Whole Condition compared to the Arm Condition. However, there was no difference in hand propulsion between the conditions, and it was clarified that the flutter kick did not affect hand propulsion at any swimming velocity.		[Homoto, Kenta; Takagi, Hideki; Kudo, Shigetada; Sengoku, Yasuo; Tsunokawa, Takaaki; Homma, Miwako] Univ Tsukuba, Fac Hlth & Sport Sci, Tsukuba, Japan; [Homoto, Kenta; Takagi, Hideki; Sengoku, Yasuo; Tsunokawa, Takaaki] Univ Tsukuba, Adv Res Initiat Human High Performance ARIHHP, Tsukuba, Japan; [Gonjo, Tomohiro] Heriot Watt Univ, Inst Life & Earth Sci, Sch Energy Geosci Infrastruct & Soc, Edinburgh, Scotland; [Koga, Daiki] Tokyo Inst Technol, Sch Engn, Dept Syst & Control Engn, Meguro, Japan; [Takagi, Hideki] Univ Tsukuba, Fac Hlth & Sport Sci, Tsukuba, Japan; [Takagi, Hideki] Univ Tsukuba, Adv Res Initiat Human High Performance ARIHHP, Tsukuba, Japan								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001353304600001	22	Article; Article		
J	Mondt, Ali B.; Morse, Alan; Evans, Zachary								Did you notice us? An eye-tracking investigation of sponsorship at the US Olympic swim trials								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				26	1			124	140		10.1108/IJSMS-03-2024-0053			FEB 19 2025	2025	Purpose - This study aimed to investigate the ecological validity of sponsorship effectiveness by examining the visual attention paid to sponsorship at a live sporting event and the subsequent impact of that attention on cognitive outcomes using eye tracking in a natural, real-world environment. Design/methodology/approach-Two logistic regression analyses (i.e. sponsor recall and sponsor recognition) were conducted to evaluate the impact of sponsorship exposure time, fixation duration and fixation frequency on viewer attention. Findings - The preliminary investigation unveiled that longer exposure, strategic placement and brand repetition led to more frequent and extended fixations. The statistical examination demonstrated that a greater fixation frequency yielded a higher probability of explicit memory. However, the amount of time did not appear to influence viewers' explicit memory. Further, females exhibited a higher probability of explicit memory compared to their male counterparts. Finally, age emerged as a significant determinant of explicit memory. Originality/value - The significance of conducting eye-tracking studies within an authentic sport environment enhances ecological validity, leading to the development of practical and realistic approaches to boost consumers' explicit memory of sponsors. Further, the tangible evidence of how sponsorship information is processed can inform and modify sport marketing strategies to enhance the effectiveness of sponsorships.		[Mondt, Ali B.] Idaho State Univ, Human Performance & Sport Studies, Pocatello, ID 83209 USA; [Morse, Alan] Univ Northern Colorado, Dept Kinesiol Nutr & Dietet, Greeley, CO USA; [Evans, Zachary] Ball State Univ, Dept Kinesol, Muncie, IN USA; [Mondt, Ali B.] Idaho State Univ, Human Performance & Sport Studies, Pocatello, ID 83209 USA								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001349606000001	58	Article; Article		
J	Puga, Troy; Scigliano, Nicholas M.; Box, McKenna W.; Riehl, John T.								The major league baseball pitch clock: one year position player injury analysis								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				53	2			147	151		10.1080/00913847.2024.2425592			MAR 4 2025	2025	<bold>Background: </bold>In 2023, Major League Baseball (MLB) implemented the pitch clock. The effects of the pitch clock on player injury rates is largely unknown, and some, including the major league baseball players association, have suggested that pitchers may be at an increased risk of injury with its implementation. Position players have received little attention in these discussions, even though they may be at the same theorized risk of injuries. The aim of this study is to determine if implementation of the 2023 MLB pitch clock influenced the incidence of injuries in position players. It is hypothesized that implementation of the MLB pitch clock will lead to a rise in injuries due to a reduction of time for the primary biological energy system used by baseball to restore to normal levels. <bold>Methods: </bold>Injury data was collected from the fangraphs.com injury database, the most comprehensive MLB data and statistical database website, for the 2021, 2022, and 2023 MLB seasons. The incidence rate ratio was calculated and used to compare the injury rate for the 2023 season to the 2021 and 2022 seasons for both major anatomical categories and anatomical subcategories. A z-test for proportions was used to determine significance. <bold>Results: </bold>Incidence rate ratio comparison of the 2023 MLB pitch clock season versus the 2021 MLB season showed a decrease in the total incidence of injuries (p < .001), lower extremity injuries (p < .001), and hamstring injuries (p = .032). Incidence rate ratio comparison of the 2023 MLB pitch clock season versus the 2022 MLB season showed a decrease in the total incidence of injuries (p = .010), undisclosed injuries (p < .001), and knee injuries (p = .035). <bold>Conclusions: </bold>Following the implementation of the pitch clock during the 2023 MLB season, the total number of injuries and several lower extremity injury categories decreased. Due to a decrease in the overall time spent on the field in a single game and over a season, it could be hypothesized that the pitch clock decreased the workload for position players, leading to this drop in injuries. Further longitudinal investigation must be done to investigate if this influence of the MLB pitch clock persists overtime.		[Puga, Troy; Box, McKenna W.; Riehl, John T.] Med City Denton, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Interstate 35,3535 S, Denton, TX 76210 USA; [Scigliano, Nicholas M.] Res Med Ctr, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Kansas City, MO USA; [Puga, Troy] Med City Denton, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Interstate 35,3535 S, Denton, TX 76210 USA								4							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001353997700001	16	Article; Article		
J	Howell, Stephen; Lee, Younghoon; Yi, Kyoung June								Nurturing holistic talent, addressing systemic inequity: Canadian coaches' insights on optimizing youth soccer talent identification and development								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	2			443	454		10.1177/17479541241296454			APR 2025	2025	Evidence suggests that youth talent identification and development systems (TIDS) are lacking in quality due to various complex and multifaceted factors specific to youth players. Given the importance of consistently identifying and developing high-achieving players, soccer organizations and coaches rely heavily on effective and productive youth TIDS. This study explored the perspectives of youth coaches in Canada to: (1) enhance the capacity of youth soccer organizations and coaches to make informed decisions about TIDS, (2) maximize the advancement of youth players, (3) identify approaches, practices, and priorities for developing youth players to compete at higher levels. Using a qualitative research approach, semi-structured interviews were conducted with 16 National Licensed coaches from professional youth academy or Canada's Youth National Teams. A thematic analysis identified three central themes: (1) Views on TIDS are specific to organizations and coaches, (2) More inclusive and sustainable TIDS are necessary for success, and (3) Exposure to holistic talent development environments is essential. The findings emphasized informed decisions to establish coherent, effective, and player-centered systems through professionalized organizations and coaches, a collective philosophy with clear standards, and prioritization of players' needs. Inclusive environments increase access to opportunities and resources that motivate players with diverse backgrounds and talents, supporting longterm engagement. An equity-based lens expands the player pool through equitable and sustainable opportunities for all players. A holistic approach to promoting psychosocial well-being and personal development is necessary for meaningful experiences within TIDS. Flexible, differentiated, and empowering approaches are needed for playercentered pathways that meet players' evolving needs.		[Howell, Stephen] Univ Manitoba, Fac Kinesiol & Recreat Management, Winnipeg, MB, Canada; [Lee, Younghoon; Yi, Kyoung June] McMaster Univ, Fac Sci, Dept Kinesiol, Ivor Wynne Ctr 207,1280 Main St West, Hamilton, ON L8S 4L8, Canada; [Yi, Kyoung June] McMaster Univ, Fac Sci, Dept Kinesiol, Ivor Wynne Ctr 207,1280 Main St West, Hamilton, ON L8S 4L8, Canada								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001350082900001	64	Article; Article		
J	Scigliano, Noah M.; Goetz, Jessica E.; Fleury, Ignacio Garcia; Dibbern, Kevin N.; Petrachaianan, Krit; Buckwalter, V. Joseph A.								The effect of full-body weight-bearing on palmar pressure distribution in collegiate-level gymnasts								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	12			3301	3311		10.1080/14763141.2024.2424389			DEC 1 2024	2024	Wrist and hand biomechanics under full-body load are not fully understood. To identify potential anatomy-related differences in hand loading, 15 former collegiate athletes completed a 45-second handstand on a novel emed (R) pressure platform system. Center of pressure (CoP) and force distribution across the palmar surface were analysed during the stabilised phase. Maximum force, mean pressure, and contact area were calculated in four palmar anatomic subregions: hypothenar, thenar, metacarpals, and fingers. These values were related to ulnar variance measurements obtained from a participant handstand hold in a weight-bearing computed tomography machine. About 93% of participants shifted their CoP towards their dominant hand (p < 0.001), and among all participants, the dominant hand applied an average of 8.91% (p = 0.002) higher maximum force than the nondominant hand. The proportion of total mean force was highest in the hypothenar (47.1%) and thenar regions (36.5%). Every 1.00 mm increase in ulnar variance corresponded to a 2.8% increase in maximum force in the hypothenar region (p = 0.037). This investigation emphasises the role of gymnastics hand dominance on left/right hand weight distribution and the importance of the hypothenar zone in distributing pressure during handstands. It also indicates that force transmission through the wrist to the palm is contingent on radioulnar positioning.		[Scigliano, Noah M.; Goetz, Jessica E.; Fleury, Ignacio Garcia; Dibbern, Kevin N.; Petrachaianan, Krit; Buckwalter, V. Joseph A.] Univ Iowa Hosp & Clin, Dept Orthoped & Rehabil, Iowa City, IA 52245 USA; [Buckwalter, V. Joseph A.] Univ Iowa Hosp & Clin, Dept Orthoped & Rehabil, Iowa City, IA 52245 USA								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001350198600001	16	Article; Article		
J	Barley, Oliver R.; Doherty, Colin S.; Scanlan, Mark; Tapsell, Liam C.; Wilson, Corey; Giustiniano, Julian; Plush, Matthew G.; Vial, Shayne								Exploratory analysis of fight-ending punches in the Ultimate Fighting Championship™ mixed martial arts promotion								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	1			291	299		10.1177/17479541241296615			FEB 1 2025	2025	Punching is a crucial element of mixed martial arts (MMA), often leading to knockouts (KO) or technical knockouts (TKOs). This study explored the relative foot positions of athletes, their stances, punch type executed, and the reliability of these variables to provide insights into effective punch application in MMA. We retrospectively examined MMA contests from the Ultimate Fighting Championship that ended via KO/TKO (2020 to 2022). Data were sourced from publicly available videos on the internet. Three analysts, each with at least three years of experience in striking combat sports and competitive MMA, conducted observations independently. Only critical strikes where all analysts agreed on the time and type of punch were included. Inter-rater reliability was assessed using the Cohen's kappa coefficient statistic (K). The k-means cluster analyses were used to identify the most frequently occurring front foot positions (FFP) and punch types (PT). All variables, except for the back foot position, demonstrated substantial or greater reliability (K=0.64-0.92). Out of 271 contests, the most common fight-ending punches were the rear straight (n=77, 29.2%), front hook (n=71, 26.9%), and rear hook (n=63, 23.9%). According to the cluster analysis, overall, the most common PT for athletes of the same stance was an outside FFP with a rear straight punch (n=35, 14.4%). For competitors in opposite stances, the most common FFP was outside, with a rear hook punch (n=16, 22.8%). Identifying common PTs, FFPs, and stances offers valuable insights for technical coaching and talent identification, aiding in refining training methods and improving MMA performance.		[Barley, Oliver R.; Doherty, Colin S.; Scanlan, Mark; Tapsell, Liam C.; Wilson, Corey; Plush, Matthew G.; Vial, Shayne] Edith Cowan Univ, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, 270 Joondalup Dr, Joondalup, WA 6027, Australia; [Barley, Oliver R.] Edith Cowan Univ, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, 270 Joondalup Dr, Joondalup, WA 6027, Australia								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001350089100001	27	Article; Article		
J	Meng, Christopher R.; Walts, Cory T.; Ryan, Laurence J.; Stearne, David J.; Clark, Kenneth P.								Spatiotemporal kinematics during top speed sprinting in male intercollegiate track and field and team sport athletes								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				25	1			150	163		10.1080/14763141.2024.2423281			JAN 2 2026	2026	We investigated spatiotemporal kinematics during top speed sprinting and biomechanical running strategies in 98 male intercollegiate athletes from a range of athletic backgrounds in track and field (TF, n = 28) and team sports (TS, n = 70). Participants completed 40 m running trials with sagittal plane motion analyses of high-speed video captured from 30 m to 40 m. Across the entire sample, measures of contact time, step rate, step length, flight length and duty factor (ratio of contact duration to stride duration) were meaningfully correlated with top speed (p < 0.05, 0.51 <= |r or rho| <= 0.78). Flight time and contact length were weakly correlated with top speed (p < 0.05, 0.27 <= |r or rho| <= 0.34). When comparing sub-groups of Slow TF (n = 14) and Fast TS athletes (n = 22) with similar top speeds (similar to 9.3 m/s), Fast TS athletes clearly demonstrated a more ground-based strategy, with longer ground contact times and contact lengths, shorter flight times and flight lengths, and larger duty factors. Therefore, the results of this study suggest that existing technical models and normative metrics based on data from TF athletes could require modification when evaluating and coaching sprinting performance with TS athletes.		[Meng, Christopher R.; Stearne, David J.; Clark, Kenneth P.] West Chester Univ, Dept Kinesiol, W Chester, PA 19383 USA; [Meng, Christopher R.] Princeton Univ, Dept Athlet, Princeton, NJ USA; [Walts, Cory T.] Univ Penn, Dept Athlet, Philadelphia, PA USA; [Clark, Kenneth P.] West Chester Univ, Dept Kinesiol, W Chester, PA 19383 USA								5							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001347833000001	34	Article; Article		
J	Lemus, Sergio A.; Volz, Mallory; Chen, Cheng-Bang; Mann, Bryan J.; Travascio, Francesco								The use of lifting straps during snatch alters muscle activation patterns								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	1			264	274		10.1177/17479541241296023			FEB 1 2025	2025	The snatch is prevalent in competitive and recreational lifting as well as strength training. Lifting straps (LS) are an accessory that wrap around the hand and the barbell, reducing the limitations of grip strength. However, this benefit has not been quantitatively supported for the snatch. The aim of this study was to compare muscle activation patterns between using LS and not using them at 80% of the snatch one-repetition maximum in a group of twelve sub-elite male weightlifters. It was hypothesized that LS would decrease forearm muscle activation and increase larger muscle group activation. Eight dominant-side muscles located in the lower limbs, back, shoulders, and upper limbs were measured via electromyography. A two-way analysis of variance (ANOVA), followed by a Tukey Pairwise comparison, revealed that LS significantly impacted (p=0.039) muscle activation in the snatch. Specifically, latissimus dorsi activation increased the most (17.2 +/- 55.7%), while biceps brachii activation decreased the most (-8.0 +/- 37.0%). Comparing muscle activation across different phases of the lift showed that LS decreased forearm and bicep brachii activation by 16.0 +/- 25.2% and 7.1 +/- 35.7% respectively during the pull phase, and increased vastus lateralis, latissimus dorsi, and medial deltoid activation between the second part of the first pull and the catching position, with a corrected effect size exceeding 1.5. These results support the hypothesis that LS decrease forearm activation, which could reduce grip strength limitations and consequently, reduce problems associated with fatigue. Increases in vastus lateralis activation with the use of LS suggest a greater training stimulus during the snatch, which can help develop leg strength.		[Lemus, Sergio A.; Travascio, Francesco] Univ Miami, Dept Mech & Aerosp Engn, Coral Gables, FL USA; [Volz, Mallory] Univ Miami, Dept Biomed Engn, Coral Gables, FL USA; [Chen, Cheng-Bang] Univ Miami, Dept Ind & Syst Engn, Coral Gables, FL USA; [Mann, Bryan J.] Texas A&M Univ, Dept Kinesiol & Sport Management, College Stn, TX USA; [Travascio, Francesco] Univ Miami, Dept Orthopaed, Miller Sch Med, Miami, FL USA; [Travascio, Francesco] Mt Sinai Med Ctr, Max Biedermann Inst Biomech, Miami Beach, FL USA; [Travascio, Francesco] Univ Miami, Coll Engn, 1251 Mem Dr,MEB 223, Coral Gables, FL 33146 USA								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001347651400001	37	Article; Article		
J	Casamichana, David; Barba, Eider; Aguirre, Gorka; Agirrezabalaga, Oier; Castellano, Julen								Compensatory training sessions, do they really compensate?								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	1			152	158		10.1177/17479541241287914			FEB 1 2025	2025	The aim of this study was to compare the external load accumulated by players belonging to three teams of the same professional club in the compensatory training session, training the day after the match, expressing this both in absolute values and in values relative to the match demands. Fifty-one soccer players from three different categories (professional team [PRO] n= 16 players; reserve team [RES]= 15 players; and second reserve team [RES2]= 20 players) were monitored by micro-electromechanical systems devices in compensatory training sessions. Large and very large differences between teams were shown in the variables most related to volume (duration, player load, total distance, acceleration load and distance at >14kmh(-1)), while the variables most related to intensity show trivial and small differences between teams (distance at >21 and >24kmh(-1), and number of accelerations and decelerations). Our main finding agreed with our hypothesis, showing that most of the external load variables range between 30-90% of the official match load, most of the external load variables being in ranges close to 50-60% of the match demands, reaching a higher percentage in the variables related to the accelerations and decelerations actions.		[Casamichana, David; Barba, Eider; Aguirre, Gorka; Agirrezabalaga, Oier] Real Sociedad Inst, Real Sociedad Football Club, Donostia San Sebastian, Spain; [Barba, Eider; Castellano, Julen] Univ Basque Country UPV EHU, Res Grp GIKAFIT, Vitoria, Spain; [Castellano, Julen] Univ Basque Country UPV EHU, Carretera Lasarte 71, Vitoria 01007, Spain								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001348058300001	30	Article; Article		
J	Oliveira, Gabriel dos Santos; Gasparin, Gabriela Bissani; Capaverde, Vinicius de Borba; Ribas, Leticia Oscar; Alvares, Joao Breno Araujo Ribeiro; Baroni, Bruno Manfredini								Monitoring hip adductor strength in professional women's football players over a season: A prospective study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				70				110	115		10.1016/j.ptsp.2024.10.005			NOV 2024	2024	Objectives: To describe the changes in hip adductor strength of professional women's football players over a season. Design: One-season prospective study. Setting: Facilities of a national first division club. Participants: Professional women's football players. Main outcome measures: Maximum hip adductor isometric strength in the long-lever and short-lever positions at four timepoints: early preseason, early season, mid-season, and end-season. Results: Twenty-two players completed the study. Hip adductor strength values in early preseason (134 f 29 N in the long-lever position and 317 f 68 N in the short-lever position) were significantly lower than in the early season (171 f 29 N and 363 f 54 N) and mid-season (163 f 23 N and 369 f 53 N). By the end of the season (150 f 19 N and 345 f 39 N), strength values had significantly declined from both early and mid-season levels. Visual inspection of individual athletes' strength evolution over time reveals heterogeneous responses, with some players showing trajectories opposite to the group at specific time points. Conclusions: Hip adductor strength increased from the preseason to the start of the women's football national league, remained stable during the first half of the league, but slightly declined in the second half. The heterogeneous responses among athletes underscore the importance of individualized monitoring throughout the season.		[Oliveira, Gabriel dos Santos; Gasparin, Gabriela Bissani; Capaverde, Vinicius de Borba; Ribas, Leticia Oscar; Alvares, Joao Breno Araujo Ribeiro; Baroni, Bruno Manfredini] Fed Univ Hlth Sci Porto Alegre UFCSPA, Sarmento Leite St 245, BR-90050170 Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil; [Baroni, Bruno Manfredini] Fed Univ Hlth Sci Porto Alegre UFCSPA, Sarmento Leite St 245, BR-90050170 Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001348561200001	28	Article; Article		
J	Chun, Alex G.; Snyder, Eli M.; Obana, Kyle K.; Ashinsky, Beth G.; Parisien, Robert L.; Bottiglieri, Thomas S.; Ahmad, Christopher S.; Trofa, David P.								The 10-year decreasing trend of youth soccer head injuries and concussions presenting to US emergency departments								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				53	2			129	137		10.1080/00913847.2024.2421154			MAR 4 2025	2025	ObjectivesNearly 3 million children participate in youth soccer annually in the United States. Popularity of youth soccer within recent years has prompted investigation describing youth-soccer concussion trends presenting to United States emergency departments (EDs). MethodsData from National Electronic Injury Surveillance System were analyzed for soccer players 2-18 years old sustaining concussions from January 2013 to December 2022. Patient data included age, sex, mechanism of injury, setting (practice vs. game), diagnosis, loss of consciousness, and disposition. Raw data were used to calculate national estimates based on assigned statistical sample weight of each hospital. ResultsA total of 80,582 youth soccer concussions were diagnosed in US EDs (51.0% female, 49.0% male). The most common mechanism of injury was head to ball (31.0%). On average, overall concussions decreased by 572 per year (p = 0.02). Head to body concussions decreased by 169 per year (p < 0.01) and head to ground concussions decreased by 155 per year (p < 0.01). No changes per year in concussion trends for head to ball, head to head, not specified, and other mechanisms. Exclusion of years 2020 and 2021 (COVID), demonstrated decreases in concussions for head to body by 125 (p = 0.01) and head to ground mechanisms by 135 per year (p = 0.01). ConclusionThere is a decreasing trend in youth soccer head injuries and concussions presenting to US emergency departments from 2013 to 2022. The trends from this study indicate that heading may be the most important aspect of soccer-related concussions presenting to US emergency departments. This study contributes to the growing literature regarding concussions in youth soccer athletes.		[Chun, Alex G.; Snyder, Eli M.] Univ Hawaii Manoa, John A Burns Sch Med, 651 Ilalo St, Honolulu, HI 96813 USA; [Obana, Kyle K.; Ashinsky, Beth G.; Bottiglieri, Thomas S.; Ahmad, Christopher S.; Trofa, David P.] Columbia Univ, Columbia Univ Irving Med Ctr, Dept Orthoped Surg, New York, NY USA; [Parisien, Robert L.] Icahn Sch Med Mt Sinai, Dept Orthoped Surg, New York, NY USA; [Bottiglieri, Thomas S.; Trofa, David P.] New York Hosp & Hlth Syst, New York Presbyterian Hosp, Dept Orthoped Surg, New York, NY USA; [Chun, Alex G.] Univ Hawaii Manoa, John A Burns Sch Med, 651 Ilalo St, Honolulu, HI 96813 USA								1							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001348955300001	44	Article; Article		
J	Oudejans, Raoul R. D.; Groothuis, Isabelle N. W.; Muller, Roxy C.; Hill, Yannick								High-pressure protocol during practice evokes competition-like psychological states in gymnasts								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	1			313	318		10.1177/17479541241295338			FEB 1 2025	2025	Athletes - particularly gymnasts - are inevitably confronted with pressure during competitions. To ensure that athletes can perform their tasks despite experiencing pressure, it is essential to safely expose them to competition-like experiences during training. Therefore, we collaborated with two gymnastics coaches in developing a pressure protocol for elite-level youth gymnasts (n=16) to assess whether psychological states that are typically experienced during competitions can be evoked during training. Our results show that cognitive anxiety, somatic anxiety, and mental effort were increased significantly, while self-confidence and performance indicated declines, albeit not significant, when training with a pressure protocol compared to regular training. Furthermore, none of these variables differed between the pressure training and competition. The current results inspire confidence that coaches may utilize pressure protocols to successfully introduce competition-like psychological states during training to help athletes perform better despite experiencing pressure and anxiety.		[Oudejans, Raoul R. D.; Groothuis, Isabelle N. W.; Muller, Roxy C.; Hill, Yannick] Vrije Univ Amsterdam, Fac Behav & Movement Sci, Dept Human Movement Sci, Amsterdam Movement Sci, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Oudejans, Raoul R. D.; Hill, Yannick] Inst Brain & Behav Amsterdam, Dept Human Movement Sci, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Oudejans, Raoul R. D.] Amsterdam Univ Appl Sci, Ctr Expertise Urban Vital, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Hill, Yannick] Univ Colorado Colorado Springs, Lyda Hill Inst Human Resilience, Colorado Springs, CO USA; [Hill, Yannick] Vrije Univ Amsterdam, Dept Human Movement Sci, Van der Boechorstr 7, NL-1081 BT Amsterdam, Netherlands								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001347153800001	34	Article; Article		
J	Wilson, Corey; Scanlan, Mark; Bradbury, Duncan G.; Barley, Oliver R.								Intervention accuracy and perception of fatigue in state-level Australian football umpires								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	1			193	202		10.1177/17479541241289077			FEB 1 2025	2025	This investigation examined intervention accuracy and perception of fatigue associated with umpiring state-level Australian Rules football (AF). 39 field umpires (Age: 25.2 +/- 6.8 y, Body Mass: 74.6 +/- 7.9 kg, Height: 178.9 +/- 7.4 cm) employed by the Western Australian Football Commission, were recruited. Intervention accuracy (whether given free kicks were correct) was analysed post-event by the lead investigator using footage of the matches, with two umpire coaches being used for reliability. Perception of fatigue was assessed pre- and post-match using a questionnaire. Data was collected in 22 Western Australian Football League matches in the 2023 season. 384 free kicks were recorded, with 343 correct and 41 incorrect decisions. Each umpire awarded 9.8 +/- 3.8 free-kicks, with a distribution of correct-to-incorrect being 8.8 +/- 3.2 to 1.1 +/- 1.1 free-kicks per match. Intervention accuracy was 89.3 +/- 10.4% correct. Significant decline in intervention accuracy between first and second half (W=.931, p=.021) was found. No significant declines in intervention accuracy between quarters were observed. Perception of fatigue was unchanged across matches (p=.074). Our results demonstrate that umpires are generally accurate when adjudicating free kicks but said accuracy declines across a match. The results of this study, provide important insight on free-kick accuracy and perception of fatigue in state-level AF umpires, and may help regulatory bodies designing strategies to improve umpiring outcomes.		[Wilson, Corey; Scanlan, Mark; Bradbury, Duncan G.; Barley, Oliver R.] Edith Cowan Univ, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, 270 Joondalup Dr, Joondalup, WA 6027, Australia; [Wilson, Corey] Edith Cowan Univ, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, 270 Joondalup Dr, Joondalup, WA 6027, Australia								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001345248900001	30	Article; Article		
J	Wang, Jian; Yang, Juncong; Huang, Xinwei; Luo, Ye; Wu, Danni; Huang, Xiaofan; Wang, Shaobai								The effect of knee braces on knee joint kinematics at different exercise speeds								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	12			3526	3537		10.1080/14763141.2024.2409656			DEC 1 2024	2024	This study aims to investigate the influence of a new semi-rigid knee joint braces on kinematics using the Opti-knee knee joint kinematic analysis system at various exercise speeds. Twenty-four healthy young male adults were recruited for this study. Participants were randomly assessed while wearing and not wearing knee brace at four different speeds on a treadmill: normal walking (3.6 km/h), brisk walking (5.4 km/h), jogging (9 km/h), and moderate intensity running (10.8 km/h). Six degrees of freedom kinematic data from the knee joint were collected. Paired t-tests were conducted to calculate the kinematic differences. At speeds of 3.6 km/h and 5.4 km/h, wearing the knee brace led to reduced knee joint mobility in anterior-posterior translation, superior-inferior translation, internal-external rotation, and flexion-extension angles during the stance phase (P < 0.05). At 9 km/h, wearing the brace reduced knee joint internal-external rotation and flexion-extension mobility during the stance phase (P < 0.05). At 10.8 km/h, wearing the brace reduced knee joint flexion-extension mobility during the stance phase (P < 0.05). Wearing brace has significant influence on knee kinematics at four speeds, and the effect of brace varies with the speed of movement.		[Wang, Jian] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Athlet Performance, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Yang, Juncong; Luo, Ye; Wu, Danni; Wang, Shaobai] Shanghai Univ Sport, Key Lab Exercise & Hlth Sci, Minist Educ, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Yang, Juncong; Huang, Xinwei] Tongji Univ, Dept Rehabil Therapy, Dept Hematol, Yangzhi Affiliated Rehabil Hosp, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Huang, Xiaofan] Fudan Univ, Shanghai Peoples Hosp 5, Dept Rehabil Med, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Wang, Shaobai] Shanghai Univ Sport, Key Lab Exercise & Hlth Sci, Minist Educ, Shanghai, Peoples R China								5							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001344604700001	35	Article; Article		
J	Smitheman, Hayley Powell; Hanlon, Shawn L.; Lundberg, Mari; Pohlig, Ryan T.; Silbernagel, Karin Gravare								Comparison of short term recovery in patients with midportion Achilles tendinopathy with varying degrees of kinesiophobia treated with the Silbernagel protocol: A prospective single cohort analysis								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				70				101	109		10.1016/j.ptsp.2024.10.004			NOV 2024	2024	Objective: To assess short term recovery between individuals with Achilles tendinopathy with varying degrees of kinesiophobia when treated with the Silbernagel protocol. Secondarily to investigate short term change in degree of kinesiophobia. Design: Prospective single cohort analysis. Setting: University/Clinical. Participants: 116 participants with midportion Achilles tendinopathy were grouped from their baseline Tampa Scale of Kinesiophobia (TSK) score: Low (<= 33), Medium (34-41), and High (>= 42). Main outcome measures: Symptom severity, Achilles tendon structure, and function were assessed at baseline and 8-weeks following initiation of the Silbernagel protocol. Differences in recovery between TSK groups were analyzed. Results: No group by time interactions were observed for symptoms, structure, or function. A significant interaction of group by time was observed for TSK score. The Medium (n = 66) and High (n = 28) TSK groups significantly decreased TSK score after 8 weeks by 2.4 and 4.4 points respectively while the Low TSK group (n = 22) did not change. Conclusion: There were no differences in short term recovery of symptoms, Achilles tendon structure, and function in individuals with midportion Achilles tendinopathy treated with the Silbernagel protocol regardless of baseline degree of kinesiophobia. Those with moderate and high levels of kinesiophobia at baseline decreased TSK score in the short term.		[Smitheman, Hayley Powell; Silbernagel, Karin Gravare] Univ Delaware, Dept Phys Therapy, Newark, DE 19716 USA; [Hanlon, Shawn L.] Calif State Univ Fullerton, Dept Kinesiol, Fullerton, CA USA; [Lundberg, Mari] Sophiahemmet Univ, Dept Hlth Promoting Sci, Stockholm, Sweden; [Lundberg, Mari] Univ Gothenburg, Ctr Person Ctr Care GPCC, Sahlgrenska Acad, Gothenburg, Sweden; [Lundberg, Mari] Vrije Univ Brussel, Fac Phys Educ & Physiotherapy, Dept Physiotherapy Human Physiol & Anat, Pain Mot PAIN Res Grp, Brussels, Belgium; [Pohlig, Ryan T.] Univ Delaware, Biostat Core Fac, Newark, DE USA; [Silbernagel, Karin Gravare] Univ Delaware, Dept Phys Therapy, Newark, DE 19716 USA								2							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001342454000001	65	Article; Article		
J	Shenkman, Evgeniya; Molodchik, Mariia; Parshakov, Petr								Online Versus Offline eSports Tournaments: Prize Structure and Individual Performance								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				26	1			115	132		10.1177/15270025241284056			JAN 2025	2025	This article examines whether the online context affects tournament theory incentive mechanisms. It investigates the impact of prize structure on player performance in eSports under online and offline conditions. Using a quasi-experimental approach with data from the Counter-Strike Global Offensive eSports scene, the study finds that high prize distributions increase individual output in both settings, but the incentive effect is weaker in online events.		[Shenkman, Evgeniya; Molodchik, Mariia; Parshakov, Petr] HSE Univ, Int Lab Intangible Driven Econ, 37 Gagarina Bulvar,Room 208, Perm 614107, Russia; [Shenkman, Evgeniya] HSE Univ, Int Lab Intangible Driven Econ, 37 Gagarina Bulvar,Room 208, Perm 614107, Russia								4							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001337863700001	30	Article; Article		
J	Medina, Kevin Gramage; Delvaux, Francois; Schwartz, Cedric; Berwart, Gilles; Barnerat, Thierry; Croisier, Jean-Louis; Kaux, Jean-Francois								Coaches' perceptions on the <i>Spread</i>: A 1 vs 1 goalkeeper technique. International survey on 400+goalkeeper coaches								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	2			467	477		10.1177/17479541241289419			APR 2025	2025	In this study, we explore goalkeeper (GK) coaches' knowledge and use of the Spread, a 1v1 goalkeeping technique, and their experiences and perceptions on injury risks related to it. An online questionnaire was distributed internationally between January and March 2023, collecting a total of 411 complete answers (largest sample of GK coaches to date). GK coaches' demographics were used to explore significant differences between answers. Almost all coaches recognized (99%) and used (78%) the technique. Coaches recommended to start training the Spread from a Recreational level and at an age of 11.3 +/- 2.8. Contact with another player was the most (67%) perceived type of injury risk; 38% of the coaches recalled at least one player getting injured performing the Spread (Elite level coaches significantly more likely, p < .01); with Contusion (16.3%) and Musculo-skeletal (15.8%) being the most recalled type of injuries. Most coaches perceived no injury risk differences between male and female GK (68.1%), nor between young and adult GK (41.1%). These results show the Spread's popularity among GK coaches while highlighting knowledge gaps in some areas (e.g., technical execution, sources of knowledge). Both researchers and stakeholders can leverage from the results to develop and improve GK-coaching interventions, particularly in the field of injury prevention.		[Medina, Kevin Gramage; Delvaux, Francois; Schwartz, Cedric; Berwart, Gilles; Croisier, Jean-Louis] Univ Liege, Lab Human Mot Anal LAHM, Quartier Polytech 1, Allee Decouverte 13C, B-4000 Liege, Belgium; [Medina, Kevin Gramage; Delvaux, Francois; Schwartz, Cedric; Berwart, Gilles; Croisier, Jean-Louis; Kaux, Jean-Francois] Univ Liege, FIFA Med Ctr Excellence, Federat Internatl Med Sport FIMS Collaborat Ctr Sp, Phys Med & Sport Traumatol Dept,SportS 2, Liege, Belgium; [Medina, Kevin Gramage; Delvaux, Francois; Schwartz, Cedric; Berwart, Gilles; Croisier, Jean-Louis; Kaux, Jean-Francois] Univ Hosp Liege, Liege, Belgium; [Barnerat, Thierry; Croisier, Jean-Louis; Kaux, Jean-Francois] KeepExpert, Messancy, Belgium; [Delvaux, Francois; Croisier, Jean-Louis; Kaux, Jean-Francois] Univ Liege Allee Sports, Dept Phys Act & Rehabil Sci, Liege, Belgium; [Delvaux, Francois; Croisier, Jean-Louis; Kaux, Jean-Francois] Int Olymp Comm IOC, Res Ctr Prevent Injury & Protect Athlete Hlth, Reseau Francophone Olymp Rech Medecine Sport ReFOR, Liege, Belgium; [Medina, Kevin Gramage] B521-517 Quartier Polytech 1, Allee Decouverte 9, Liege, Belgium								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001337942600001	71	Article; Article		
J	Lee, Myungwoo; Lee, Dong Hun; Cottingham, Michael; Hawkins, Billy								Strategic philanthropy of athletes after transgression: examining the congruence effect of pre-transgression and transgression issues								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				26	1			92	107		10.1108/IJSMS-08-2024-0207			FEB 19 2025	2025	PurposeThis study comprehensively explains how sports consumers evaluate athletes' post-transgression philanthropic activities. We specifically focus on the congruence effect between the pre-transgression philanthropic endeavors and the transgression issue, shedding light on the effectiveness of these strategies in reinstating the positive image of athletes and associated entities.Design/methodology/approachThis study employed a rigorous research design, replicating two studies using sports-related (n = 409) and non-sports-related (n = 404) transgression cases. Data were collected by the Amazon Mechanical Turk platform. A series of experimental studies aimed to investigate the congruence mechanism underlying athletes' post-transgression philanthropic efforts.FindingsWhen the post-transgression philanthropic initiative is related to the transgression, sport consumers are less likely to view it skeptically and are more inclined to positively evaluate the brand attitude and purchase intention, especially when the transgression is unrelated to the pre-transgression philanthropic efforts.Research limitations/implicationsAs is the case with most research, this study has a limitation. This study used a fictitious athlete name to prevent any prior biases or preconceived notions about the athletes and to avoid any unforeseen influences of personal attitudes toward the athlete. However, designing this study around a fictitious athlete may pose construct validity issues because it may not reflect real-life interactions with the athletes. To increase the validity of findings, future research should aim to replicate the current findings using the names of actual athletes.Originality/valueThis unique approach provides valuable insights and equips sports marketers and brand managers with effective strategies to restore the positive image of athletes and associated entities after a transgression has been made public, empowering them to make informed decisions in challenging situations.		[Lee, Myungwoo] Southeast Missouri State Univ, Dept Allied Hlth Kinesiol & Sport Sci, Cape Girardeau, MO 63701 USA; [Lee, Dong Hun; Cottingham, Michael; Hawkins, Billy] Univ Houston, Dept Hlth & Human Performance, Houston, TX USA; [Lee, Myungwoo] Southeast Missouri State Univ, Dept Allied Hlth Kinesiol & Sport Sci, Cape Girardeau, MO 63701 USA								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001331771800001	72	Article; Article		
J	Abinzano, Isabel; Bonilla, Harold; Muga, Luis								Suspense and Surprise: The Role of Bookmakers' Spreads								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				26	3			240	267		10.1177/15270025241289406			APR 2025	2025	Uncertainty in a competition's final result can affect the event's demand via suspense and surprise. Based on a sample of more than 50,000 professional tennis matches, this paper shows how information from bookmaker prices, implied probabilities, and price spreads contain relevant information that explains the uncertainty in the final results of the matches. There is a negative relation between the implied probability for the favorite and the different measures of match result uncertainty proposed and a positive relationship between the spread and these measures when the bookmaker sets prices based on information. This second relation disappears when the bookmaker sets prices based on betting volumes. The results have potential implications both for organizers in scheduling matches with higher levels of uncertainty and for punters in setting strategies that predict the exact result of a match.		[Abinzano, Isabel; Bonilla, Harold; Muga, Luis] Univ Publ Navarra, Campus Arrosadia s-n, Pamplona 31006, Navarra, Spain; [Abinzano, Isabel; Bonilla, Harold; Muga, Luis] INARBE, Campus Arrosadia s-n, Pamplona 31006, Navarra, Spain; [Muga, Luis] Univ Publ Navarra, Campus Arrosadia s-n, Pamplona 31006, Navarra, Spain; [Muga, Luis] INARBE, Campus Arrosadia s-n, Pamplona 31006, Navarra, Spain								1							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001339898400001	41	Article; Article		
J	Agha, Nola; Berri, David; Brook, Stacey L.; Paulson, Courtney								Exploitation in College Sports: No Longer Just a "Man's Game"								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				25	8			965	988		10.1177/15270025241279530			DEC 2024	2024	Previous studies of college athlete compensation have generally focused on the "revenue sports" of football and men's basketball. Hence, wage exploitation is often considered a "man's game." In the 50 years since Title IX, many women's college sports have reported millions of dollars in revenue, suggesting wage exploitation is possible in college softball. Data on 19,760 athletes from 294 universities from 2012 to 2021, combined with two different sources of athletic revenue reach the same conclusion: wage exploitation exists in college softball. Furthermore, thousands of players generate more revenue in college than the wages they are likely to earn playing professional softball.		[Agha, Nola] Univ San Francisco, Sport Management, San Francisco, CA USA; [Berri, David] Southern Utah Univ, Econ, Cedar City, UT 84720 USA; [Brook, Stacey L.] Univ Cent Florida, Econ, Orlando, FL 32816 USA; [Paulson, Courtney] Univ New Hampshire, Decis Sci, Peter T Paul Coll Business & Econ, Durham, NH USA; [Berri, David] Southern Utah Univ, Econ, Cedar City, UT 84720 USA								2							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001333987400001	66	Article; Article		
J	Sahin, Sarp; Erdman, Ashley; Mcginley, James; Loewen, Alex; Ellis, Henry B.; Wyatt, Chuck; Jones, Jacob C.; Miller, Shane M.; Wilson, Philip L.; Ulman, Sophia								The relationship between Beighton score and biomechanical risk factors among adolescent, female volleyball players								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				70				84	89		10.1016/j.ptsp.2024.10.003			NOV 2024	2024	Objective: To investigate the relationship between Beighton score and biomechanical risk factors, such as knee valgus, in female, adolescent volleyball players. Design: Cross-sectional study. Setting: Biomechanics laboratory. Participants: 25 adolescent, club-level female volleyball athletes (14.5 +/- 1.8 years) were tested between September 2021-November 2021. Main outcome measures: Participants were asked to perform a double-leg vertical jump (DLVJ), a single-leg squat (SLS), and a single-leg drop landing (SLDL). Peak coronal plane angles during the DLVJ, SLS, and SLDL were computed. Spearman correlations were performed to identify significant relationships between Beighton score and biomechanical variables. Results: Peak knee valgus was found to be moderately correlated to Beighton score during the DLVJ-Land (r = 0.487, p = 0.014), SLDL (r = 0.478, p = 0.016), and SLS (r = 0.439, p = 0.028) tasks. Conclusions: Overall, adolescent volleyball players with higher Beighton scores tended to exhibit a greater peak knee valgus, suggesting that such athletes could benefit from a targeted neuromuscular training or injury prevention program.		[Sahin, Sarp] Washington & Lee Univ, 204 W Washington St, Lexington, VA USA; [Sahin, Sarp; Erdman, Ashley; Mcginley, James; Loewen, Alex; Ellis, Henry B.; Wyatt, Chuck; Jones, Jacob C.; Miller, Shane M.; Wilson, Philip L.; Ulman, Sophia] Scottish Rite Children, 5700 Dallas Pkwy, Frisco, TX USA; [Ellis, Henry B.; Wyatt, Chuck; Jones, Jacob C.; Miller, Shane M.; Wilson, Philip L.; Ulman, Sophia] Univ Texas Southwestern, 5323 Harry Hines Blvd, Dallas, TX USA; [Ulman, Sophia] 5700 Dallas Pkwy, Frisco, TX 75034 USA								3							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001335608000001	38	Article; Article		
J	Lee, Eun-Byeol; Okimitsu, Oyama; Ryu, Jiin; Lee, Tae Ho; Park, Dong-Hyuk; Hong, Sunghyun; Suh, Sang-Hoon; Park, Daehyun; Han, Jungsun; Lalande, Sophie; Tanaka, Hirofumi; Oh, Minsuk; Jeon, Justin Y.								Greater Excess Post-Exercise Oxygen Consumption and Fat Use Following Calisthenics vs. Oxygen Consumption Matched Steady-State Exercise								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				96	2			382	388		10.1080/02701367.2024.2410394			APR 3 2025	2025	Calisthenics is a form of bodyweight exercise that involves dynamic and rhythmic exercises. The physiological responses during and after calisthenics remain unclear. This study examined whether a bout of full-body calisthenics, a form of circuit resistance exercise that involves bodyweight movements, yields greater excess post-exercise oxygen consumption (EPOC) than steady-state exercise (SSE) at matched oxygen consumption. Twenty-two young adults (age = 22.1 +/- 2.4 years; four females) participated in two separate, oxygen consumption (VO2) matched exercise sessions: full-body calisthenics (nine body weight exercises, 15 reps x 4 sets) and SSE (running on a treadmill at 60-90% of VO(2)max). Energy expenditure, substrate utilization, and EPOC were measured during exercise and 60 min of recovery. SSE showed higher peak VO2 and heart rate during exercise than those during calisthenics. However, the post-exercise VO2 and energy expenditure above baseline level during the first 10 min of recovery were significantly higher with calisthenics than with SSE (0-5 min: 1.7 +/- 0.5 vs. 1.0 +/- 0.6; 6-10 min: 0.5 +/- 0.4 vs. 0.1 +/- 0.2 kcal/min; 31-60 min recovery: -0.1 +/- 0.3 vs. -0.2 +/- 0.2; all p < .05). During calisthenics, participants utilized a significantly higher proportion of energy from carbohydrates (85 vs. 73%; p < .01) but after exercise, they used a greater proportion of fat as the energy source (71 vs. 50%; p < .01) compared to SSE. Full-body calisthenics, a circuit-style bodyweight exercise, may be more effective than VO2 matched SSE in triggering greater EPOC and fat metabolism. Further efforts are warranted to demonstrate whether different amounts of skeletal muscle mass groups indeed lead to varying EPOC responses and energy use.		[Lee, Eun-Byeol; Okimitsu, Oyama; Ryu, Jiin; Lee, Tae Ho; Park, Dong-Hyuk; Hong, Sunghyun; Suh, Sang-Hoon; Oh, Minsuk; Jeon, Justin Y.] Yonsei Univ, Dept Sport Ind Studies, 50 Yonseiro, Seoul 03722, South Korea; [Park, Daehyun; Han, Jungsun] LG Elect, AI Lab, LG Sci Pk, Seoul, South Korea; [Lalande, Sophie; Tanaka, Hirofumi] Univ Texas Austin, Austin, TX USA; [Oh, Minsuk; Jeon, Justin Y.] Yonsei Univ, Dept Sport Ind Studies, 50 Yonseiro, Seoul 03722, South Korea								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001336807100001	29	Article; Article		
J	Tavares, Nuno; Vilas-Boas, Joao Paulo; Castro, Maria Antonio								Electromyographic activity of shoulder muscles on two preventive exercise programmes for swimmer's shoulder: elastic band versus weight								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	7			2106	2118		10.1080/14763141.2024.2410891			JUL 3 2025	2025	Strength programmes have shown good results in preventing swimmer's shoulder. However, there aren't studies based on electromyographic (EMG) analysis in these programmes. This study aims to compare an EMG activity of the middle trapezius (MT), lower trapezius (LT), infraspinatus (IS), serratus anterior (SA), and pectoralis major (PM) in two swimmer's shoulder preventive programmes - one performed with elastic band and the other with weights. Twenty competitive swimmers performed two strength programmes consisting of five exercises each, while the analysis of EMG activity in MT, LT, IS, SA, and PM for each exercise was recorded. The superficial EMG was used to collect data at a sampling frequency of 1000 hz. The Paired Sample T-test or the Wilcoxon test was applied to compare EMG activity between programmes. The internal rotation at 90 degrees (p < 0.001) and external rotation at 90 degrees (p <= 0.01) exercises produced high myoelectric shoulder muscle activity with an elastic band. Conversely, scapular punches (p < 0.001) exercise has high shoulder EMG activity when performed with weights. Performing the same preventive exercise programme with two different instruments produces great variability in the myoelectric activity of the shoulder muscles.		[Tavares, Nuno] Univ Porto, Fac Sports, Porto, Portugal; [Tavares, Nuno] CIAFEL, Porto, Portugal; [Tavares, Nuno; Castro, Maria Antonio] Polytech Inst Coimbra, RoboCorp, I2A, Coimbra, Portugal; [Vilas-Boas, Joao Paulo] Univ Porto, LABIOMEP UP, Fac Sports, Porto, Portugal; [Vilas-Boas, Joao Paulo] Univ Porto, CIFI2D, Porto, Portugal; [Castro, Maria Antonio] Polytech Univ Leiria, Sch Hlth Sci, ciTechCare, CDRSP, Leiria, Portugal; [Castro, Maria Antonio] Univ Coimbra, Ctr Mech Engn Mat & Proc CEMMPRE, Coimbra, Portugal; [Tavares, Nuno] Univ Porto, Fac Sports, Porto, Portugal; [Tavares, Nuno] CIAFEL, Porto, Portugal; [Tavares, Nuno] Polytech Inst Coimbra, RoboCorp, I2A, Coimbra, Portugal								2							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001338449900001	45	Article; Article		
J	Buyukluoglu, Gokhan; Yildiz, Yeliz Ay; Ercan, Sabriye; Buyukluoglu, Nihan; Orscelik, Aydan								Para-athletes are exposed to bullying as much as non-disabled athletes								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				53	1			80	85		10.1080/00913847.2024.2411936			JAN 2 2025	2025	Objectives Exposure to bullying and high levels of anxiety are important determinants of the quality and duration of athletes' experiences of success. The aim of this study was to determine which behaviors are most commonly perceived as bullying by para athletes and whether the exposure to bullying or levels of trait anxiety differ between para athletes and non-disabled athletes. MethodsIt is a cross-sectional study. Two groups consisting of professional para athletes (n = 104) and non-disabled athletes (n = 129) between the ages of 18-45 affiliated to the national athletics federation were included in the study. The questionnaire included information about demographics and the two scales, the Negative Acts Questionnaire-Revised (NAQ-R) and the Sport Anxiety Scale-2 (SAS-2). ResultsWithholding information that could affect performance and spreading rumors (item 1,5) were the most frequently reported bullying behaviors. No statistically significant difference was found between para athletes and non-disabled athletes or between male and female genders in terms of total or any subdimension NAQ-R scores (p > 0.05). SAS-2 total and SAS-2-worry subdimension scores were significantly lower in the para athletes (p = 0.018 and p = 0.020). Total and all SAS-2 subdimension scores were significantly higher in female athletes (p < 0.05). ConclusionThe knowledge about bullying exposure in para-athletes is quite limited. The para-athlete group has fewer opportunities than the non-disabled group in terms of financial opportunities, physical conditions, media coverage and many other aspects. However, in our study, they reported bullying exposure at a similar rate with the non-disabled group. Although there is a similar level of exposure, it is clear that the results will not be similar in the two groups due to the different psychological bases. According to the results of this study, it is thought that stakeholders who have responsibility for the para-athlete group should be further educated.		[Buyukluoglu, Gokhan; Orscelik, Aydan] Gulhane Training & Res Hosp, Dept Sports Med, TR-06010 Ankara, Turkiye; [Yildiz, Yeliz Ay] Alanya Univ, Dept Sports Sci, Antalya, Turkiye; [Ercan, Sabriye] Suleyman Demirel Univ, Sch Med, Dept Sports Med, Isparta, Turkiye; [Buyukluoglu, Nihan] Univ Hlth Sci, Ankara City Hosp, Dept Psychiat, Ankara, Turkiye; [Buyukluoglu, Gokhan] Gulhane Training & Res Hosp, Dept Sports Med, TR-06010 Ankara, Turkiye								2							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001330433600001	36	Article; Article		
J	Moulds, Kylie; Lascu, Alexandra; Bai, Alison; Davidson, James								Removing the straight jacket in practice approach: An investigation into coach learning and development in Australian female tennis								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	1			102	115		10.1177/17479541241287117			FEB 1 2025	2025	Objectives Applying an ecological dynamics perspective with the Skilled Intentionality Framework, this study examined whether an integrated coach learning and development framework could be successfully implemented in Australian female tennis coaching. Methods Participants were all females: qualified coaches (N=4), coach developers (N=2) and athletes, aged 15-18 years (N=7). Participants completed an online survey, examining socio-demographics, playing/coaching history and learning outcomes. An ethnographic and action research approach utilising the Learning in Development Research Framework (LDRF) was undertaken over 20 weeks of coach learning and development. Coaches followed two female coach developers (one as the primary investigator) for a minimum of two hours per week (in situ learning), while the coaches worked directly with athletes. To identify influential factors, multiple data collection strategies were employed, including surveys, semi-structured interviews, observations, critical reflections and focus groups. Results Perceived program benefits (e.g., coach self-confidence and reassurance) and on-court/off-court support were verified within qualitative interview-derived data. Conclusion Findings identify the positive influence of an integrated coach learning and development framework on continued Australian female coaching career progression, highlighting coach development implications.		[Moulds, Kylie; Lascu, Alexandra] Univ Canberra, Fac Hlth, Discipline Exercise & Sport Sci, Canberra, ACT, Australia; [Moulds, Kylie; Bai, Alison] Tennis Australia, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Lascu, Alexandra] Victoria Univ, Inst Hlth & Sport, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Davidson, James] Ctr Sport Sci & Human Performance, Wintec, Hamilton, New Zealand; [Moulds, Kylie] Univ Canberra, Fac Hlth, Discipline Exercise & Sport Sci, 11 Kirinari St, Bruce, ACT 2617, Australia								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001326591100001	1	Article; Article		
J	Falvey, Rod; Rajaguru, Gulasekaran; Wrathall, Robert								Do Jockeys "Look to" or "Rest on" Their Laurels After a Sequence of Winning Rides?								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				26	1			78	114		10.1177/15270025241282315			JAN 2025	2025	We use Australian Thoroughbred racing data, including situational variables, to examine when a sequence of winning rides for a jockey initiates psychological momentum (PM) that makes a win on the next ride more or less likely, other things equal. Of the 42% of jockeys that exhibit PM, we find positive PM is much more common (80%) than negative PM; PM is more often precipitated by the first than the second win in the sequence; and the duration of PM is only a single ride in 90% of cases. The later the precipitating win in the sequence the more intense the PM generated. We find no evidence that PM is related to age, gender, or general riding ability. Although a broad strategy of betting on momentum-prone jockeys would result in losses, a more selective wagering strategy exploiting knowledge of when the PM is precipitated and its intensity, could generate a positive profit.		[Falvey, Rod; Rajaguru, Gulasekaran; Wrathall, Robert] Bond Univ, Bond Business Sch, 14 Univ Dr, Gold Coast, Qld 4229, Australia; [Rajaguru, Gulasekaran] Bond Univ, Bond Business Sch, 14 Univ Dr, Gold Coast, Qld 4229, Australia								1							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001325951200001	47	Article; Article		
J	Szymanek-Pilarczyk, Marta; Nowak, Michas Jakub; Gora, Tomasz; Oleksy, Lukasz; Drozd, Misosz; Wasik, Jacek								The Evaluation of the Modified Wave Periodization Model Efficiency on the Example of Young Soccer Players' Sprint Tests								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				94				215	226		10.5114/jhk/191699			OCT 2024	2024	The research aimed to evaluate the modified model of wave periodization efficiency in running speed tests conducted among soccer players aged 12 to 16. Participants included prospective players of a leading Polish top league soccer club. The research was carried out from 2018 to 2022 in June (Testing A) and December (Testing B) of each year. The test involved 30-m straight line running with 5-, 10-, and 30-m split time measurements. For this purpose, electronic photocells were used (FITLIGHT, Canada). The six-month training intervention increased the athletes' speed as there was a considerable decrease in the running time over the distance of 5 m (F = 7.86; p < 0.001), 10 m (F = 73.99; p < 0.001) and 30 m (F = 127.55; p < 0.001). Analysis of running performance of young soccer players aged 12-16 showed a significant improvement in speed at distances of 5, 10 and 30 m, confirming training effectiveness based on the wave periodization model. The negative correlation between testing year and performance suggests the influence of biological development on players' speed. The COVID-19 pandemic has impacted training, which was reflected in reduced differences between test scores. Improving initial running technique can contribute to better match results, which emphasizes the need for an individual approach to the physical preparation of players.		[Szymanek-Pilarczyk, Marta] Jan Dlugosz Univ Czestochowa, Fac Phys Culture Sci, Czestochowa, Poland; [Nowak, Michas Jakub; Gora, Tomasz; Wasik, Jacek] Jan Dlugosz Univ Czestochowa, Fac Phys Culture Sci, Coll Medicum Wsadyssawa Bieganskiego, Czestochowa, Poland; [Oleksy, Lukasz] Jagiellonian Univ Med Coll, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Physiotherapy, Krakow, Poland; [Oleksy, Lukasz] Wroclaw Med Univ, Fac Med, Dept Orthoped Traumatol & Hand Surg, Wroclaw, Poland; [Drozd, Misosz] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Inst Sport Sci, Katowice, Poland; [Nowak, Michas Jakub] Jan Dlugosz Univ Czestochowa, Fac Phys Culture Sci, Coll Medicum Wsadyssawa Bieganskiego, Czestochowa, Poland								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:001339846300017	35	Article; Article		
J	Nishiumi, Daichi; Hirose, Norikazu								Increasing Braking and Amortization Forces during the Countermovement Jump Does Not Necessarily Improve Jump Height								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				94				65	75		10.5114/jhk/190451			OCT 2024	2024	This study aimed to investigate the acute effects of altering the braking rate of force development (B-RFD) and amortization force (Amf) during countermovement jumps (CMJs) on CMJ height. Nineteen healthy men and women with training experience participated, performing six CMJ variations at different velocities (preferred and fast) and depths (knee angles: 60 degrees, 90 degrees, and 120 degrees). The measured variables included CMJ height, B-RFD, Amf, and impulses during the early and latter halves of the concentric phase (EI and LI, respectively). A two-way analysis of variance was employed, along with a correlational analysis of the rates of change for each variable. Significant velocity and depth effects were observed for B-RFD and Amf (p < 0.05). However, there was no significant velocity effect on CMJ height. No significant correlations were observed between the rates of change in B-RFD and Amf with CMJ height. Additionally, a high or a very high correlation (r >= 0.67) was observed between the rate of change in B-RFD and Amf with the rate of change in EI, while a moderate negative correlation (r = -0.43 to -0.53) was found between the rate of change in EI and LI. These findings suggest that improvements in B-RFD and Amf were associated with improvements in EI, while improvements in EI led to a reduction in LI, and consequently, improvements in B-RFD and Amf were not associated with an increase in CMJ height. In other words, improvements in B-RFD and Amf did not necessarily contribute to improvements in CMJ height.		[Nishiumi, Daichi] Waseda Univ, Grad Sch Sport Sci, Saitama, Japan; [Hirose, Norikazu] Waseda Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Saitama, Japan; [Hirose, Norikazu] Waseda Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Saitama, Japan								8							Sport Sciences	WOS:001339846300005	28	Article; Article		
J	Sungkue, Sumarttra; Sakulsriprasert, Prasert; Vongsirinavarat, Mantana; Utsahachant, Nalut; Jensen, Mark P. .								Effects of Lumbar Stabilization on Scapular Muscle Activity, Activation Onset Time, and Kinematics in Individuals with Scapular Dyskinesis								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				94				23	35		10.5114/jhk/186972			OCT 2024	2024	This study aimed to investigate the effects of lumbar stabilization on muscle activity, muscle onset time, and scapular kinematics in individuals with scapular dyskinesis. Fourteen participants with scapular dyskinesis were recruited. Scapular muscle activity and activation onset time were measured by electromyography (EMG), and scapular upward rotation was measured by two-dimensional (2-D) Kinovia software, under two conditions: with and without abdominal bracing. There was a significant increase in the activity of the serratus anterior, middle trapezius, and inferior trapezius muscles between the conditions (p < 0.001, p = 0.045, and p < 0.001, respectively). During abdominal bracing, the activation onset time of the serratus anterior and lower trapezius was noticeably shorter (p = 0.041 and p = 0.011, respectively). Scapular upward rotation at 30 degrees, 60 degrees, 90 degrees, and 120 degrees of shoulder abduction was significantly greater (p = 0.027, p = 0.003, p = 0.003, and p = 0.030, respectively). Increased scapular muscle activation, early activation onset time, and increased scapular upward rotation were also noted. These changes have an impact on the scapulohumeral rhythm.		[Sungkue, Sumarttra; Sakulsriprasert, Prasert; Vongsirinavarat, Mantana; Utsahachant, Nalut] Mahidol Univ, Fac Phys Therapy, Nakhon Pathom, Thailand; [Jensen, Mark P. .] Univ Washington, Dept Rehabil Med, Seattle, WA USA; [Sakulsriprasert, Prasert] Mahidol Univ, Fac Phys Therapy, Nakhon Pathom, Thailand								6							Sport Sciences	WOS:001339846300002	50	Article; Article		
J	van der Meulen, Lennert; Bonnaerens, Senne; Van Caekenberghe, Ine; De Clercq, Dirk; Segers, Veerle; Fiers, Pieter								Habitual Running Style Matters: Duty Factor, and Not Stride Frequency, Relates to Loading Magnitude								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				94				37	45		10.5114/jhk/191528			OCT 2024	2024	Running style is temporally defined by a duty factor and stride frequency and believed to be related to the loading experienced during ever step. However, the exact relationship between both temporal variables and loading magnitude is still unknown. We aimed to identify the relationship between a duty factor and stride frequency with external load measures, joint reaction forces and joint moments. Thirty-one healthy female recreational runners ran across a 25-m runway at a speed of 2.30 +/- 0.05 m center dot s(-1). Ground reaction forces and motion capture data were used to determine the moments and peak joint reaction forces at the knee and the ankle. The habitual duty factor and stride frequency of runners did not correlate with each other. The duty factor was found to be a significant predictor of maximal vertical ground moment (R-2 = 0.225) and peak joint reaction forces at the knee (R-2 = 0.591) and the ankle (R-2 = 0.592), but not of the vertical instantaneous loading rate. Stride frequency had no significant predictive value. In conclusion, the maximal loading and potential injury risk of female recreational runners running with high duty factors are lower compared to those of peers running with lower duty factors.		[van der Meulen, Lennert; Bonnaerens, Senne; Van Caekenberghe, Ine; De Clercq, Dirk; Segers, Veerle; Fiers, Pieter] Univ Ghent, Dept Movement & Sports Sci, Ghent, Belgium; [Van Caekenberghe, Ine] Vrije Univ Brussel, Dept Movement & Sports Sci, Brussels, Belgium; [van der Meulen, Lennert] Univ Ghent, Dept Movement & Sports Sci, Ghent, Belgium								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:001339846300003	35	Article; Article		
J	Sosa-Marin, Carlos; Alonso-Perez-Chao, Enrique; Trapero, Juan; Ribas, Carlos; Leicht, Anthony S.; Lorenzo, Alberto; Jimenez, Sergio L.								External Physical Demands during Official Under-18 Basketball Games: Consideration of Overtime Periods								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				94				181	190		10.5114/jhk/185682			OCT 2024	2024	The purpose of this study was to identify the external demands during official under-18 basketball matches that included four quarters (Q1, Q2, Q3, Q4) and/or overtime (OT) periods. Variables included: 1) distance covered and distance covered within four intensity zones (standing-walking S-W, jogging JOG, running RUN, and high-speed running HSR); 2) explosive efforts per minute (EEs); 3) PlayerLoad (PL); 4) the number of jumps per minute; 5) the number of accelerations above 2 m<middle dot>s2 (ACCs); and 6) the number of decelerations above -2 m<middle dot>s2 per minute (DECs). The values for total distance, JOG, RUN, HSR, PL, ACC, and DEC were significantly smaller during periods Q2, Q3, Q4, and OT compared to Q1. In addition, the number of EEs during Q1 was significantly greater than during Q3, Q4, and OT. When comparing OT periods to Q2, there were significantly smaller values for total distance, RUN, and PL. Similarly, when comparing OT periods to Q3, significantly smaller values were found for PL. Furthermore, when comparing OT periods to Q4, significantly smaller values were achieved for total distance and PL. These findings indicate that players experienced a decrease in external physical demands as the match progressed to an OT period. This decrease may be indicative of player fatigue and/or strategic changes that should be considered by practitioners in the preparation and management of players for overall team success in junior basketball competitions.		[Sosa-Marin, Carlos; Alonso-Perez-Chao, Enrique; Lorenzo, Alberto] Univ Polytech Madrid, Fac Sport Sci, Madrid, Spain; [Alonso-Perez-Chao, Enrique; Trapero, Juan; Ribas, Carlos] European Univ Madrid, Fac Sport Sci, Madrid, Spain; [Alonso-Perez-Chao, Enrique] Univ Alfonso X El Sabio, Fac Sports Sci, Madrid, Spain; [Leicht, Anthony S.] James Cook Univ, Sport & Exercise Sci, Townsville, Australia; [Jimenez, Sergio L.] Univ Rey Juan Carlos, Sport Sci Res Ctr, Madrid, Spain; [Jimenez, Sergio L.] Univ Rey Juan Carlos, Sport Sci Res Ctr, Madrid, Spain								13							Sport Sciences	WOS:001339846300014	36	Article; Article		
J	Kamandulis, Sigitas; Werasirirat, Phurichaya; Namsawang, Juntip; Singhasoot, Nutsupa; Snieckus, Audrius; Muanjai, Pornpimol								Acute Effects of Combined and Distinctive Stretching, Foam Rolling, and Eccentric Exercise in Young Men with Hamstring Tightness								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				94				91	103		10.5114/jhk/187026			OCT 2024	2024	This study investigated the changes in fascicle length (FL), musculotendinous unit (MTU) stiffness, muscle oxygen saturation (SmO2), and muscular performance following a single bout of a combination of static stretching (SS) or dynamic stretching (DS) with foam rolling (FR), SS only, and eccentric exercise (ECC) only in young men with hamstring tightness. Twenty-five men (20.5 +/- 1.5 years) participated in a crossover randomized study of the four conditions (DS+FR, SS+FR, SS, and ECC); each session was spaced seven days apart. FL, MTU stiffness during the straight leg raise (SLR), hamstring SmO2, and isometric and eccentric torque were measured before, immediately and 30 min after exercise. Immediately after exercise, the SLR increased significantly by means of 7.4% (d = 1.07), 6% (d = 1.27), 6% (d = 1.10), and 8% (d = 1.04, all p < 0.001) for DS+FR, SS+FR, ECC, and SS, respectively. FL was longer after exercise under all four conditions (p < 0.05). MTU stiffness decreased after ECC (p = 0.038, d = 0.40). SmO2 tended to decrease for ECC (p > 0.05), but it was increased immediately after those three exercises. Hamstring isometric torque was significantly reduced by an average of 6-9%, but eccentric torque changes varied among conditions. In conclusion, substantial and similar immediate increases in hamstring flexibility, coupled with reduced isometric torque following various exercises, were accompanied by condition-specific alterations in fascicle length, MTU stiffness, or SmO2. These findings provide practical insights for acutely enhancing range of motion in individuals with tight hamstrings.		[Kamandulis, Sigitas; Snieckus, Audrius] Lithuanian Sports Univ, Inst Sport Sci & Innovat, Kaunas, Lithuania; [Werasirirat, Phurichaya; Namsawang, Juntip; Muanjai, Pornpimol] Burapha Univ, Exercise & Nutr Innovat & Sci Res Unit, Chon Buri, Thailand; [Werasirirat, Phurichaya; Namsawang, Juntip; Singhasoot, Nutsupa; Muanjai, Pornpimol] Burapha Univ, Allied Hlth Sci Fac, Dept Phys Therapy, Chon Buri, Thailand; [Muanjai, Pornpimol] Burapha Univ, Exercise & Nutr Innovat & Sci Res Unit, Chon Buri, Thailand; [Muanjai, Pornpimol] Burapha Univ, Allied Hlth Sci Fac, Dept Phys Therapy, Chon Buri, Thailand								8							Sport Sciences	WOS:001339846300007	55	Article; Article		
J	Agudo-Ortega, Aaron; del Cerro, Jesus Santos; Salinero, Juan J.; Gonzalez-Rave, Jose M.								Unveiling the Development of Sprint Athletes: Percentile Patterns, Peak Performance Age, and a Performance Progression Model								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				94				147	156		10.5114/jhk/187621			OCT 2024	2024	The purpose of this study was to provide percentile curves, peak performance age for all sprint distances, and two linear regression models in order to analyse the individual trajectories of Spanish sprinters to explain the achievement of the senior category. A retrospective analysis was undertaken using rankings of the Spanish Athletics Federation. We analysed 4398 sprint athletes between 2004 and 2021. Our results show that the percentile curves are farther apart as the distance increased. Peak performance age was reached earlier in males than females in all distance categories (25.31 +/- 0.12 and 25.79 +/- 0.70 years for 100 m, 25.45 +/- 0.16 and 27.40 +/- 0.31 years for 200 m, and 25.61 +/- 0.24 and 27.46 +/- 2.28 years for 400 m in males and females, respectively). The two linear regressions display the importance of consistent high performance in junior categories (p < 0.01; beta = -1.92 and p = 0.15; beta = -1.22, respectively) together with the best results in the U23 category (p < 0.001; beta = 0.51 and p < 0.001; beta = 0.51, respectively) to achieve participation in the senior category. We conclude that as the running distance increases, the differences between percentiles also increase, the peak performance age occurs earlier in Spanish sprinters than shown in previous research for all sprint distances, and attaining the senior category depends upon achieving the best results in previous categories and gaining extensive experience (consistent high-performance participation) in the event.		[Agudo-Ortega, Aaron; Salinero, Juan J.; Gonzalez-Rave, Jose M.] Univ Castilla La Mancha, Fac Sports Sci, Sports Training Lab, Toledo, Spain; [del Cerro, Jesus Santos] Univ Castilla La Mancha, Dept Econ & Business Stat, Toledo, Spain; [Agudo-Ortega, Aaron] Univ Castilla La Mancha, Fac Sports Sci, Sports Training Lab, Toledo, Spain								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:001339846300011	38	Article; Article		
J	Trybulski, Robert; Zebrowska, Aleksandra; Bichowska-Paweska, Marta; Kuzdzal, Adrian; Ryszkiel, Ireneusz; Silva, Rui Miguel; Muracki, Jaroslaw; Kawczynski, Adam								The Effects of Combined Contrast Heat Cold Pressure Therapy on Post-Exercise Muscle Recovery in MMA Fighters: A Randomized Controlled Trial								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				94				127	146		10.5114/jhk/190220			OCT 2024	2024	The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effects of contrast heat and cold pressure therapy (CHCP) on muscle tone, elasticity, stiffness, perfusion unit, and muscle fatigue indices after plyometric training consisting of five sets of jumping on a 50-cm high box until exhaustion. A prospective, randomized, controlled single-blind study design was used. Twenty professional MMA fighters were included in the study. The experimental group (n = 10) was subjected to the CHCP protocol (eGR), while the control group (cGR) (n = 10) was subjected to sham therapy. Both protocols consisted of three CHCP sessions performed immediately after plyometric exercise, 24 and 48 h afterwards. Measurements were taken at the following time points: 1) at rest; 2) 1 min post-exercise; 3) 1 min post-CHCP therapy; 4) 24 h postCHCP therapy; 5) 48 h post-CHCP therapy. The results of the eGR compared to the cGR showed significantly higher perfusion at time point 5 (p < 0.001), higher muscle tone at time points 1, and 3-5 (p < 0.001 for all), higher stiffness at time points 1, 3-5 (p < 0.001 for all) and a higher pain threshold at time points 1 and 5 (p < 0.001 for all). This study suggests a positive effect of CHCP therapy on muscle biomechanics, the pain threshold, and tissue perfusion, which may contribute to increasing the effectiveness of post-exercise muscle recovery in MMA athletes.		[Trybulski, Robert] Upper Silesian Acad, Med Dept Wojciech Korfanty, Katowice, Poland; [Trybulski, Robert] Provita Zory Med Ctr, PL-44240 Zory, Poland; [Zebrowska, Aleksandra] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Inst Sport Sci, Dept Physiol & Med Sci, Katowice, Poland; [Zebrowska, Aleksandra] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Inst Hlth Living, Katowice, Poland; [Bichowska-Paweska, Marta] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, Fac Phys Educ, Gdansk, Poland; [Kuzdzal, Adrian] Univ Rzeszow, Inst Hlth Sci, Coll Med Sci, Rzeszow, Poland; [Ryszkiel, Ireneusz] Med Univ Silesia, Dept Descript & Topog Anat, Katowice, Poland; [Silva, Rui Miguel] Res Ctr Sports Performance Recreat Innovat & Techn, Melgaco, Portugal; [Silva, Rui Miguel] Escola Super Educ Fafe, Viana Do Castelo, Portugal; [Muracki, Jaroslaw] Univ Szczecin, Inst Phys Culture Sci, Dept Phys Culture & Hlth, Szczecin, Poland; [Kawczynski, Adam] Univ Szczecin, Inst Phys Culture Sci, PL-70453 Wroclaw, Poland; [Muracki, Jaroslaw] Univ Szczecin, Inst Phys Culture Sci, Dept Phys Culture & Hlth, Szczecin, Poland								14							Sport Sciences	WOS:001339846300010	85	Article; Article		
J	Shorter, Kathleen A.; Tissera, Kevin; Huynh, Minh; Benson, Amanda C.								A comparison of Fulltrack AI application as an alternative to radar gun measured cricket ball delivery speed								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	1			255	263		10.1177/17479541241284714			FEB 1 2025	2025	This study investigated the inter-rater reliability and validity of the Fulltrack AI application, to measure ball speed under a range of cricket training conditions in comparison to a radar gun. Ball speed (km/hr) of 1081 deliveries (pace=783; spin=298) from a range of training sessions and conditions were recorded simultaneously using a radar gun (Stalker Pro IIs) and iOS device running Fulltrack AI (v1.13.1). Statistical analyses were conducted in R Statistical Software. Reliability was assessed with standard error of measurement (SEM), coefficient of variation (CV) and intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC). Agreement was assessed using Bland Altman's 95% limits of agreement (LOA). Validity was assessed using generalised additive models (GAMs). Pace deliveries were associated with good agreement (ICC: 0.87-0.90, CV: 2.56-3.13%), whilst spin deliveries demonstrated lower agreement (ICC: 0.72-0.76, CV: 3.08-4.33%). LOA established poor to fair levels of agreement, exceeding maximal allowable differences (>3%). GAMs identified Fulltrack AI overestimated ball speed (pace: estimate 0.72-0.77 m/s, SE=0.34-0.34; spin: estimate 1.09-1.18 m/s, SE=0.23-0.25) when compared to the radar gun. Fulltrack AI is an ecologically valid and reliable field-based method for measuring ball speed. However, caution is warranted given the significant overestimation of ball speed in contrast with a radar gun, even after controlling for different training conditions, suggesting software could benefit from refinement.		[Shorter, Kathleen A.; Tissera, Kevin; Benson, Amanda C.] Swinburne Univ Technol, Sch Hlth Sci, Dept Hlth Sci & Biostat, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Shorter, Kathleen A.] Univ South Australia, Allied Hlth & Human Performance, Adelaide, SA, Australia; [Shorter, Kathleen A.] Univ New England, Sch Sci & Technol, Armidale, NSW, Australia; [Tissera, Kevin; Benson, Amanda C.] Swinburne Univ Technol, Sport Innovat Res Grp, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Huynh, Minh] La Trobe Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Human Serv & Sport, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Benson, Amanda C.] Swinburne Univ Technol, Dept Hlth Sci & Biostat, Sport Innovat Res Grp, 1 Alfred St, Hawthorn, Vic 3122, Australia								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001331007600001	39	Article; Article		
J	Lincoln, Merrick A.; Guerin, Gena; Nixon, Katie L.; Leahy, Sean; Darr, Rachel L.; Guevarra, Christle								Resistance Training Program Design for Swimming Athletes With Down Syndrome								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				46	5			598	618		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000836			OCT 2024	2024	Down syndrome (DS) is a congenital condition characterized by a third copy of chromosome 21, resulting in a unique phenotype, physical, and intellectual development delays and multisystem health effects. Swimming is a commonly recommended exercise mode for individuals with DS because it has been shown to confer cardiovascular, neuromuscular, and psychological benefits. Local and international organizations offer athletes with DS opportunities to compete in swimming. Swimming athletes with DS benefit from individualized resistance training (RT) delivered by qualified strength and conditioning (S&C) practitioners. The purpose of this article is to provide the S&C practitioner with a needs-driven framework for RT program design with recommendations relevant to potential orthopedic, systemic, and sensorimotor considerations of swimming athletes with DS. Programming and periodization strategies are proposed for maximizing the effectiveness of dry-land RT for this population.		[Lincoln, Merrick A.; Guerin, Gena; Darr, Rachel L.] Saginaw Valley State Univ, Dept Kinesiol, University Ctr, MI 48710 USA; [Lincoln, Merrick A.] Act Orthoped, Midland, MI USA; [Nixon, Katie L.] Univ Michigan Flint, Phys Therapy Dept, Flint, MI USA; [Leahy, Sean] Sean Leahy Performance Training LLC, Midland, MI USA; [Guevarra, Christle] Renaissance Periodizat, Charlotte, NC USA; [Lincoln, Merrick A.] Saginaw Valley State Univ, Dept Kinesiol, University Ctr, MI 48710 USA								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001328283200004	204	Article; Article		
J	Abraham, Andy; Collins, Dave; Collins, Rosie								Thinking (too?) fast and slow: An example of professional judgement and decision making processes in athletics								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	2			491	503		10.1177/17479541241286780			APR 2025	2025	Recently there has been interest in using examining coaching practice through a lens of Professional Judgement and Decision Making. One core theory of decision making, Recognition Primed Decision Making, examines how people make decisions in limited time scales. Alternatively, when time allows, there is an opportunity for people to engage in slower thoughtful and Type 2 judgement and decision making (DM). In both cases it is hypothesised that professional practitioners (coaches) should draw on formalistic scientific rather than substantive heuristics or rules to maintain a professional standard. However, despite these ideas relatively little is known about the actual decision-making behaviour of coaches in practice. Against this premise 12 long jump coaches were asked to identify the strengths and weaknesses of a long jump athlete and offer a view on how they would work to improve his performance. All coaches were asked to identify what they would do if their first approach didn't work. Findings suggest that coaches have an initial tendency to engage in RPD type behaviour but drawing mainly on substantive rules. Notably, uncertainty pushed coaches to become more considered, and formalistic. In conclusion, coaches have the capacity to be 'professional' in their DM behaviour but may not use this capacity as the first resort.		[Abraham, Andy] Leeds Beckett Univ, Carnegie Sch Sport, Leeds, England; [Collins, Dave] Univ Edinburgh, Inst Sport Phys Educ & Hlth Sci, Edinburgh, Scotland; [Collins, Dave; Collins, Rosie] Grey Matters Performance Ltd, Stratford Upon Avon, England; [Collins, Rosie] Dublin City Univ, Sch Hlth & Human Performance, Dublin, Ireland; [Abraham, Andy] Cavendish 103,Headingley Campus, Leeds LS6 3QS, England								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001327257400001	55	Article; Article		
J	Megalaa, Tomas; Yan, Alycia Fong; Beckenkamp, Paula R.; Hiller, Claire E.								Attitudes and practices of Australian healthcare and sports workers on the use of ankle supports for management and prevention of lateral ankle sprains: A cross-sectional survey								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				70				75	83		10.1016/j.ptsp.2024.09.004			NOV 2024	2024	Objective: Explore attitudes and practices of Australian professionals using ankle taping or bracing for the management and prevention of lateral ankle sprains. Design: Cross-sectional study. Setting: Anonymous online survey. Participants: Australian healthcare or athletic workers, registered with an official governing body, involved in the management and/or prevention of lateral ankle sprains. Main outcome measures: Quantitative data was collected from 20 close-ended questions. Qualitative data from 14 open-ended questions were categorized into topics using inductive thematic analysis. Data was analysed using descriptive statistics and presented in figures and tabular format. Results: A total 160 respondents answered the survey; the majority were podiatrists (42.5%), physiotherapists (23%), or sports/athletic trainers (13.8%). Ankle supports were overwhelmingly recommended and considered to be effective in the management (95% and 89% bracing and taping, respectively) and prevention (96% and 92% bracing and taping, respectively) of lateral ankle sprains. For management, semi-rigid brace with straps (26%) and figure eight taping technique (42%) were the most frequently used. For prevention, the most commonly used were soft brace with straps (30%) and the figure eight taping technique (37%). Conclusions: Australian professionals expressed a positive attitude towards using ankle supports in the management and prevention of lateral ankle sprains.		[Megalaa, Tomas; Yan, Alycia Fong; Beckenkamp, Paula R.; Hiller, Claire E.] Univ Sydney, Fac Med & Hlth, Sydney Sch Hlth Sci, Susan Wakil Hlth Bldg, Camperdown, NSW 2000, Australia; [Megalaa, Tomas] Univ Sydney, Fac Med & Hlth, Sydney Sch Hlth Sci, Susan Wakil Hlth Bldg, Camperdown, NSW 2000, Australia								1							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001368039700001	44	Article; Article		
J	Martins, Julia Beatriz Bocchi; Fausto, Danielly Yani; Flores, Fabiana Sperandio; Sonza, Anelise; Matias, Thiago Sousa; de Azevedo Guimaraes, Adriana Coutinho								Jazz Dance on Menopausal Symptoms and Psychological Aspects: A Randomized Clinical Trial Pilot Study With Follow-Up								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				96	2			316	326		10.1080/02701367.2024.2406401			APR 3 2025	2025	To analyze the short-term (one month intervention and post-intervention) and long-term (six-month follow-up) effects of Jazz Dance on menopausal symptoms (somatic, psychological and urogenital), in addition to the psychological aspects in specific (anxiety, depression, mood, stress, and aging perspective), compared to the control group of menopausal women. Randomized clinical trial with early postmenopausal women divided into two groups: Jazz Dance Intervention Group (GIDJ) (n = 23), and control group (CG) (n = 24). The physical exercise group received interventions of two weekly sessions of 60 minutes each, for 16 weeks. The control group received monthly calls, educational lectures, and maintained their usual activities during the intervention period. Assessments with all participants occurred at baseline, after the 1st month, after the interventions, and at the six-month follow-up. The evaluations are assessed by questionnaires and include menopausal symptoms (Menopause Rating Scale), depressive and anxiety symptoms (Anxiety and Depression Scale), stress (Perceived Stress Scale), mood (Brunel Mood Scale), and aging perspective (Sheppard Inventory). There was a significant improvement in GIDJ outcomes post-intervention, such as menopausal symptoms (p = .001), psychological aspects (anxiety (p = <.001), depression (p = .016) and stress (p = .030)); in the integrity domain (p = .011) for the aging perspective, and in the confusion (p = .028) and vigor (p = .044) domains for mood. Furthermore, the CG showed significant improvements in the happiness domain at one month of intervention (p = .043) from the perspective of aging. Jazz Dance is effective in treating symptoms of menopause, depression, anxiety and stress, especially with an intervention of at least 16 weeks duration.		[Martins, Julia Beatriz Bocchi; Fausto, Danielly Yani; Flores, Fabiana Sperandio; Sonza, Anelise; de Azevedo Guimaraes, Adriana Coutinho] Santa Catarina State Univ, Florianopolis, Brazil; [Matias, Thiago Sousa] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Florianopolis, Brazil; [Martins, Julia Beatriz Bocchi] Santa Catarina State Univ, Phys Act Leisure Res Lab, Pascoal Simone 358, Florianopolis, SC, Brazil								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001320049300001	54	Article; Article		
J	Michailidis, Yiannis; Kanaras, Vasileios; Mandroukas, Athanasios; Stafylidis, Andreas; Bamplekis, Charalampos; Fousekis, Andreas; Vardakis, Lazaros; Stamatelos, Konstantinos; Metaxas, Ioannis; Kyranoudis, Angelos E.; Metaxas, Thomas I.								External Load of Different Length Microcycles and Relationships with Match Running Performance in Youth Football								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				96	2			309	315		10.1080/02701367.2024.2405621			APR 3 2025	2025	The purpose of this study was to investigate: a) the differences in external load (EL) during microcycles with four (MIC4) and five training (MIC5) sessions, b) to explore the ratio of weekly training load to the load of the subsequent match, and c) to explore possible correlations between the EL of the MIC4 or MIC5 with the running performance of football players in the following match. The study involved 20 elite youth football players from a team that won the championship in their category that year (age, 16.4 +/- 0.3 years). The EL was tracked via GPS in 8 MIC4 and 10 MIC5. Running performance in subsequent matches was also recorded. Two by two ANOVA was employed to compare parameters between MIC5 and MIC4 and Pearson correlation test was applied to examine potential correlations between the training load parameters. The results showed that MIC5 had significantly greater external load in distance parameters in zones 4 & 5, total distance, and decelerations. Differences in running performance in matches were observed only for accelerations (p = .028) and decelerations (p = .02). The ratio of training/match load was lower in all parameters in MIC4 compared to MIC5 but exceeded the match load. Large negative correlations were observed for accelerations and decelerations. In conclusion, additional training in MIC5 increases the load without affecting running performance in the match. Attention should be given to accelerations and decelerations, as their volume can easily increase with the use of small-sided games in training.		[Michailidis, Yiannis; Kanaras, Vasileios; Mandroukas, Athanasios; Stafylidis, Andreas; Bamplekis, Charalampos; Fousekis, Andreas; Vardakis, Lazaros; Stamatelos, Konstantinos; Metaxas, Ioannis; Kyranoudis, Angelos E.; Metaxas, Thomas I.] Aristotle Univ Thessaloniki, Lab Evaluat Human Biol Performance, Dept Phys Educ & Sports Sci, New Bldg Labs, PO 57001,Univ Campus Thermi, Thessaloniki, Greece; [Michailidis, Yiannis] Aristotle Univ Thessaloniki, Lab Evaluat Human Biol Performance, Dept Phys Educ & Sports Sci, New Bldg Labs, PO 57001,Univ Campus Thermi, Thessaloniki, Greece								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001319142200001	25	Article; Article		
J	Gomez, Manuel; Montalvo, Samuel; Sanchez, Alejandro; Conde, Daniel; Ibarra-Mejia, Gabriel; Penailillo, Luis E.; Gurovich, Alvaro N.								Effects of Different Eccentric Cycling Intensities on Brachial Artery Endothelial Shear Stress and Blood Flow Patterns								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				96	2			287	297		10.1080/02701367.2024.2404139			APR 3 2025	2025	Eccentric exercise has gained attention as a novel exercise modality that increases muscle performance at a lower metabolic demand. However, vascular responses to eccentric cycling (ECC) are unknown, thus gaining knowledge regarding endothelial shear stress (ESS) during ECC may be crucial for its application in patients. The purpose of this study was to explore ECC-induced blood flow patterns and ESS across three different intensities in ECC. Eighteen young, apparently healthy subjects were recruited for two laboratory visits. Maximum oxygen consumption, power output, and blood lactate (BLa) threshold were measured to determine workload intensities. Blood flow patterns in the brachial artery were measured via ultrasound imaging and Doppler on an eccentric ergometer during a 5 min workload steady exercise test at low (BLa of 0-2 mmol/L), moderate (BLa 2-4 mmol/L), and high intensity (BLa levels > 4 mmol/L). There was a significant increase in the antegrade ESS in an intensity-dependent manner (baseline: 44.2 +/- 8.97; low: 55.6 +/- 15.2; moderate: 56.0 +/- 10.5; high: 70.7 +/- 14.9, all dynes/cm2, all p values < 0.0002) with the exception between low and moderate and Re (AU) showed turbulent flow at all intensities. Regarding retrograde flow, ESS also increased in an intensity-dependent manner (baseline 9.72 +/- 4.38; low: 12.5 +/- 3.93; moderate: 15.8 +/- 5.45; high: 15.7 +/- 6.55, all dynes/cm2, all p values < 0.015) with the exception between high and moderate and Re (AU) showed laminar flow in all intensities. ECC produced exercise-induced blood flow patterns that are intensity-dependent. This suggests that ECC could be beneficial as a modulator of endothelial homeostasis.		[Gomez, Manuel; Sanchez, Alejandro; Conde, Daniel; Ibarra-Mejia, Gabriel; Gurovich, Alvaro N.] Univ Texas El Paso, El Paso, TX USA; [Montalvo, Samuel] Stanford Univ, Sch Med, Stanford, CA USA; [Montalvo, Samuel] Stanford Univ, Stanford, CA USA; [Penailillo, Luis E.] Univ Andres Bello, Santiago, Chile; [Gomez, Manuel] Univ Texas El Paso, Coll Hlth Sci, 500 W Univ Ave, El Paso, TX 79968 USA								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001317612200001	69	Article; Article		
J	Enqvist, Jonas; Holmberg, L. Joakim; Moberg, Mathias; Arndt, Anton								Assessing lower extremity stiffness in countermovement jumps: a critical analysis of the differences between calculation methods								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				25	1			1	21		10.1080/14763141.2024.2393198			JAN 2 2026	2026	Introduction: Stiffness (k) describes a material's resistance to deformation and is useful for understanding neuromuscular function, performance, and injury risk. The aim of this study is to compare the lower limb stiffness method (kLLS), which uses only force plate data, with methods combining force plate and motion capture data to calculate stiffness during the eccentric phase of a countermovement. Material and Methods: Twelve resistance-trained males: age 24.9 (4.4) years, height 1.81 (0.05) m, weight 88.2 (14) kg) performed three maximal effort countermovement jumps (CMJ). Data were collected synchronously using three-dimensional (3D) kinematic and kinetic data (dual force plate setup). Lower limb stiffness (z), joint stiffness (x, y, and z), and leg stiffness (linear, sagittal plane, and 3D) were calculated for the eccentric phase of all CMs. Results: kLLS showed high concurrent validity with strong correlations to kinetic-kinematic methods (r = 0.90-0.97, p < 0.05). A linear mixed model revealed no significant differences in k-values between kLLS and leg stiffness, indicating high concurrent validity. Discussion: kLLS offers valid and valuable information affecting performance, injury risk, and return-to-sport decisions. Conclusion: The findings suggest that kLLS is a valid method for calculating stiffness in CMJs and equal to 3D leg stiffness.		[Enqvist, Jonas; Moberg, Mathias; Arndt, Anton] Swedish Sch Sport & Hlth Sci, Dept Physiol Nutr & Biomech, Stockholm, Sweden; [Enqvist, Jonas; Moberg, Mathias] Ski Team Sweden Alpine & Skicross, Are, Sweden; [Holmberg, L. Joakim] Linkoping Univ, Dept Management & Engn, Solid Mech, Linkoping, Sweden; [Arndt, Anton] Karolinska Inst, Dept Clin Sci Intervent & Technol, Stockholm, Sweden; [Enqvist, Jonas] Swedish Sch Sport & Hlth Sci, Dept Physiol Nutr & Biomech, Stockholm, Sweden; [Enqvist, Jonas] Ski Team Sweden Alpine & Skicross, Are, Sweden								6							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001314066000001	56	Article; Article		
J	Craig, Bobbie-Ann P.; McDonough, Meghan H.; Culos-Reed, S. Nicole; Bridel, William								Types of Social Support Predicting Physical Activity and Quality of Life in Group Exercise Programs for Adults Living with Cancer								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				96	2			279	286		10.1080/02701367.2024.2402525			APR 3 2025	2025	Social support (SS) and physical activity (PA) can improve quality of life (QoL) in cancer, meaning group PA programs are important for rehabilitation. However, there are many types of SS, and few studies have compared which SS concepts are more strongly associated with PA and QoL. This exploratory cross-sectional study examined the association between several types of SS provided by other people in group exercise oncology classes and PA and QoL among adults living with cancer. It was hypothesized all types of SS would be positively associated with PA and QoL. Participants (N = 72) completed a questionnaire assessing 11 SS predictors, five QoL outcomes, and one self-reported PA outcome, and wore a Fitbit to assess step count for 1 week. Hypotheses were tested using multiple regression. Reassurance of worth support predicted self-reported moderate-to-vigorous PA (R2 = .07, p = .03). Relatedness thwarting negatively predicted general (R2 = .07, p = .03) and social well-being (R2 = .10, p = .01). Social network predicted physical well-being (R2 = .07, F(1, 66) = 4.93, p = .03). There were no significant SS predictors of the other outcomes. Group exercise oncology programs should train instructors to promote reassurance of worth by recognizing or facilitating other participants to recognize participants' PA competence and skills, encourage developing social relationships by creating opportunities to connect over time, and minimize relatedness thwarting by promoting belonging and inclusion. Future research should compare different types of SS in larger samples and diverse populations of adults living with cancer.		[Craig, Bobbie-Ann P.; McDonough, Meghan H.; Culos-Reed, S. Nicole; Bridel, William] Univ Calgary, Fac Kinesiol, Univ Drive NW 2500, Calgary, AB T2N 1N4, Canada; [Craig, Bobbie-Ann P.] Univ Calgary, Fac Kinesiol, Univ Drive NW 2500, Calgary, AB T2N 1N4, Canada								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001310456500001	42	Article; Article		
J	Green, Darren; Sewry, Nicola; Derman, Wayne; Killops, Jannelene; Boer, Pieter Henk; Jordaan, Esme; Schwellnus, Martin								A high incidence of serious life-threatening cardiovascular medical encounters during a marathon (2014-2019) calls for prevention strategies: SAFER XL								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				53	1			55	63		10.1080/00913847.2024.2399495			JAN 2 2025	2025	ObjectiveThe aim of this study was to determine the incidence and nature (severity and type by organ system and specific diagnosis) of all medical encounters (MEs), including serious/life-threatening MEs (SLMEs) during a South African road marathon.MethodsThis descriptive study was a retrospective analysis of data collected over 6 years at the Cape Town Marathon from 2014 to 2019, which included 40 446 starters. All MEs were collected and described as per the consensus statement for mass community-based sporting events. Incidences (I; per 1000 starters; 95% CI) are described for all MEs, SLMEs, and by organ system and specific diagnosis.ResultsThe incidence of all MEs was 8.7 (95% CI: 7.8-9.6) per 1000 starters. The largest contributor to all MEs, by organ system affected, was cardiovascular-related, with an incidence of 1.8 (95% CI: 1.4-2.2), where exercise-associated postural hypotension was the most common specific diagnosis (I = 1.3; 95% CI: 1.0-1.7). The incidence of all SLMEs was 1.0 (95% CI: 0.7-1.4) making up 11.7% (41/350) of all MEs. The incidence of SLMEs by organ system was highest in the cardiovascular system (I = 0.4; 95% CI: 0.3-0.7), with acute coronary syndrome (ACS) (I = 0.2; 95% CI: 0.1-0.4) the most common specific diagnosis. There were no sudden cardiac deaths (SCD) nor sudden cardiac arrests (SCA).ConclusionThere was a high proportion of cardiovascular-related medical encounters, as well as SLMEs. We recommend that event organizers and race medical directors investigate prevention strategies to mitigate against risk of SLMEs, specifically acute cardiovascular SLMEs.		[Green, Darren] Mediclin PTY Ltd, Mediclin Corp Events Dept, Stellenbosch, South Africa; [Green, Darren; Derman, Wayne] Stellenbosch Univ, Inst Sport & Exercise Med, Dept Exercise Sport & Lifestyle Med, ZA-7600 Cape Town, South Africa; [Sewry, Nicola; Schwellnus, Martin] Univ Pretoria, Sport Exercise Med & Lifestyle Inst, Fac Hlth Sci, Pretoria, South Africa; [Sewry, Nicola; Derman, Wayne; Schwellnus, Martin] Int Olymp Comm Res Ctr, Pretoria, South Africa; [Killops, Jannelene] Univ Pretoria, Fac Hlth Sci, Sect Sports Med, Pretoria, South Africa; [Boer, Pieter Henk] Cape Peninsula Univ Technol, Dept Human Movement Sci, Wellington, South Africa; [Jordaan, Esme] South African Med Res Council, Cape Town, South Africa; [Jordaan, Esme] Univ Western Cape, Stat & Populat Studies, Cape Town, South Africa; [Green, Darren] Stellenbosch Univ, Inst Sport & Exercise Med, Dept Exercise Sport & Lifestyle Med, ZA-7600 Cape Town, South Africa								4							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001308137800001	40	Article; Article		
J	Chen, Chen; Gao, Jie; Bacic, Boris; Zhou, Shenghao								Enhancing the starting performance of elite swimmers through eight weeks of lateral entry training								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	7			2069	2084		10.1080/14763141.2024.2400531			JUL 3 2025	2025	This study aims to explore the effects of 8 weeks of lateral entry training on the start performance of elite athletes and its impact on ordinary entry performance. Data were collected from 12 elite-level participants before and after the training using Kistler(9691A1) system with 3D force platform and high-speed cameras. 19 parameters of ordinary and lateral entry were assessed and analysed using paired samples t-tests. Compared to ordinary entry, the lateral entry performance was characterised by: decrease of both vertical force (5.77%) and maximum depth (6.09%) at a significance level (p < .01), and increase of flight distance (4.33%), first kick distance (3.90%) and push force (14.06%) at (p < .05). The results show that, compared to an ordinary entry technique, the lateral entry technique provides a 3.93%, 6.14%, and 8.29% reduction in time to reaching a 5 m, 10 m and 15 m distance (p <= .01), showing performance improvements at start times. The 8-week training on the lateral entry technique did not have a significant impact on the time performance of the ordinary entry technique (p > .050). The findings presented herein offer pertinent insights for elite-level athletes, coaches and future investigations aimed at enhancing swimming start techniques and performance.		[Chen, Chen; Gao, Jie] Beijing Sport Univ, China Swimming Sports Acad, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Bacic, Boris] AUT Univ, Engn Comp & Math Sci, Auckland, New Zealand; [Zhou, Shenghao] Zhejiang Ocean Univ, Sports & Mil Training Educ Dept, Zhoushan, Zhejiang, Peoples R China; [Chen, Chen] Beijing Sport Univ, China Swimming Sports Acad, Beijing, Peoples R China								1							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001314047900001	22	Article; Article		
J	Merz, Christian; Naundorf, Falk; Schueler, Axel; Pickardt, Steven; Gorges, Tom; Supej, Matej; Kersting, Uwe G.								Is a cork a legal shortcut? - A comparison of the measured and assumed amount of rotation in freestyle tricks								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	7			2056	2068		10.1080/14763141.2024.2399255			JUL 3 2025	2025	In snowboard freestyle disciplines, the amount of rotation is commonly determined as the sum of rotations around all board axes and is the most important indicator of the trick difficulty across all snowboard freestyle disciplines. Based on the type of rotation, tricks can be classified as flatspins, corks and flips. It is not yet known whether the type of rotation of a trick can influence the actual amount of rotation. Therefore, the aim of this study was to determine the amount of deviation, defined as difference between measured and assumed amount of rotation as a function of trick classification, using kinematic motion analysis. The amount of deviation was positive for flatspins (median: 21 degrees; min: -4 degrees; max: 49 degrees) and negative for corks (median: -25 degrees; min: -89 degrees; max: 12 degrees) and flips (median: -28 degrees; min: -94 degrees; max: 13 degrees). Our results demonstrate that there are ways of execution where riders perform corks and flips with a shortcut and flatspins with a detour. This should be taken into account by judges, coaches and riders. Further research is needed to investigate how the shortcut can be influenced.		[Merz, Christian; Naundorf, Falk; Gorges, Tom] Inst Appl Training Sci, Dept Strength Power & Tech Sports, Leipzig, Germany; [Merz, Christian; Kersting, Uwe G.] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Biomech & Orthopaed, Cologne, Germany; [Schueler, Axel; Pickardt, Steven] Inst Appl Training Sci, Dept Biomech Sports Technol, Leipzig, Germany; [Supej, Matej] Univ Ljubljana, Fac Sport, Ljubljana, Slovenia; [Kersting, Uwe G.] Aalborg Univ, Dept Hlth Sci & Technol, Aalborg, Denmark; [Kersting, Uwe G.] Mid Sweden Univ, Dept Hlth Sci, Sundsvall, Sweden; [Merz, Christian] Inst Appl Training Sci, Dept Strength Power & Tech Sports, Leipzig, Germany; [Merz, Christian] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Biomech & Orthopaed, Cologne, Germany								2							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001315978900001	19	Article; Article		
J	Hodakowski, Alexander; Dowling, Brittany; Brusalis, Christopher M.; Olmanson, Bjorn A.; Streepy, John T.; McCormick, Johnathon R.; Dowling, Brockton A.; Verma, Nikhil N.; Garrigues, Grant E.								Professional baseball pitchers produce similar ball velocity and kinematics when pitching from the wind-up and stretch deliveries: a biomechanical analysis								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	12			3680	3692		10.1080/14763141.2024.2398507			DEC 1 2024	2024	Historically, the wind-up delivery is considered a more biomechanically advantageous pitching motion compared to the stretch. Recently, some pitchers have shifted to pitching exclusively from the stretch regardless of the game situation. The goal of this study was to compare temporal, kinematic and kinetic variables between the wind-up and stretch deliveries. Professional pitchers (n = 52, 189.1 +/- 4.8 cm, 92.8 +/- 8.4 kg) threw fastballs evaluated by 3D-motion capture (480 Hz) from both the wind-up and stretch deliveries. Within a pitcher, there was no significant difference in ball velocity between the two deliveries (p = 0.15). The stretch delivery was significantly quicker to ball release at toe off 2 (p < 0.001) (the last frame the pitcher's foot contacts the ground before progressing to maximum knee height) and maximum knee height (p < 0.001). The majority of differences occurred prior to foot contact. The wind-up delivery produced greater maximum shoulder external rotation (p < 0.001) and lead knee flexion at ball release (p < 0.001). Pitching from the stretch incurred greater shoulder superior force (p < 0.001). It remains unknown if this is clinically significant as pooled means show only a 2% difference. Therefore, pitching a fastball from either the wind-up or stretch delivery provides comparable mechanics and throwing arm load with likely comparable risk of injury.		[Hodakowski, Alexander; Olmanson, Bjorn A.; Streepy, John T.] Rush Med Coll, Chicago, IL USA; [Dowling, Brittany; McCormick, Johnathon R.; Verma, Nikhil N.; Garrigues, Grant E.] Midwest Orthopaed Rush, Sports Med, Chicago, IL 60612 USA; [Dowling, Brittany; McCormick, Johnathon R.; Verma, Nikhil N.; Garrigues, Grant E.] Rush Univ, Med Ctr, Orthopaed Surg, Chicago, IL 60612 USA; [Brusalis, Christopher M.] Hosp Special Surg, Shoulder & Elbow, New York, NY USA; [Dowling, Brockton A.] West Virginia Univ, Sch Med, Morgantown, WV USA; [Dowling, Brittany] Midwest Orthopaed Rush, Sports Med, Chicago, IL 60612 USA; [Dowling, Brittany] Rush Univ, Med Ctr, Orthopaed Surg, Chicago, IL 60612 USA								3							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001316905700001	24	Article; Article		
J	Olsen, Torill; Tsuji, Yosuke; Sato, Shintaro								Connecting event impact perceptions to sponsor-related behaviours among residents in the host city								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				26	1			37	55		10.1108/IJSMS-04-2024-0091			FEB 19 2025	2025	PurposeThis study examines the relationships among residents' event impact perceptions, attitude towards events, attitude towards sponsors and sponsor-related behavioural intentions (i.e. purchase intention and word-of-mouth).Design/methodology/approachFocusing on the Naha Marathon in Okinawa, Japan, as a research context, data were collected from residents of Okinawa who were familiar with the Naha Marathon and its sponsors (N = 322). Structural equation modelling was employed to test the hypotheses, developed based on theories of social exchange, image transfer and planned behaviour.FindingsThe findings revealed that residents' perceptions of social event impacts, rather than economic and environmental impacts, were associated with attitudes towards the event. Such an effect was indirectly associated with purchase intentions and word-of-mouth intentions via attitude towards the sponsors.Originality/valueThe current research contributes to the literature on sport sponsorship, especially in participation-based sports, by exploring how event sponsors can enjoy fruitful returns on investment. The findings can extend our understanding by highlighting the importance of positive community engagement for sponsors. Sponsors who aim to enhance consumer behaviour should prioritize strategies aligning with the positive social impacts of events.		[Olsen, Torill] Waseda Univ, Grad Sch Sport Sci, Sport & Entertainment Management Lab, Tokyo, Japan; [Tsuji, Yosuke] Rikkyo Univ, Coll Business, Tokyo, Japan; [Sato, Shintaro] Waseda Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Sport & Entertainment Management Lab, Tokyo, Japan; [Sato, Shintaro] Waseda Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Sport & Entertainment Management Lab, Tokyo, Japan								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001303694900001	53	Article; Article		
J	Zhong, Yuming; Zheng, Hang; Weldon, Anthony; Nugent, Frank; Gee, Thomas I.; Sperlich, Billy; Moore, Dan; Zi, Wei; Li, Yongming								Training volume, intensity, and performance of world-class Chinese rowers prior to the 2019 world championships: A case study								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	1			319	329		10.1177/17479541241279559			FEB 1 2025	2025	Six world-class Chinese male rowers (age: 28.2 +/- 3.2 years; height: 1.93 +/- 0.02 m; body mass: 94.7 +/- 3.9 kg) participated in the study. The training volume in different modalities and intensities were recorded over 44 weeks. To evaluate rowing performance, rowers completed four 2000 m and 5000 m maximum effort time trials and two incremental step tests. Total training time for the season was 907h, which consisted of 67.5% of rowing training, 16.9% of strength training, 15.2% of warm-up and flexibility, and 0.4% of non-specific endurance training. The rowing training intensity distribution (TID) was 87.0% performed at low intensity (LIT), 8.4% at moderate intensity (MIT), and 4.6% at high intensity (HIT). There was no significant difference in average weekly rowing training volume (distance) at LIT across four phases (p=0.12), as well as rowing training at MIT (p=0.07) and HIT (p=0.97). The fourth 2000m time trials performance significantly improved from the first trial (-6.4 s, p=0.02). The fourth 5000 m time trial performance was significantly improved from the first (-13.4 s, p=0.02) and second trial (-14.1 s, p=0.01). The final-step mean power output (W) in the second incremental step test improved significantly (p=0.04). In the 2018-19 season, China's world-class rowers conducted considerable LIT rowing. The training volume distribution and rowing TID were similar in all phases.		[Zhong, Yuming; Zheng, Hang; Li, Yongming] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Athlet Performance, Changhai Rd 399, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Weldon, Anthony] Birmingham City Univ, Ctr Life & Sport Sci, Birmingham, W Midlands, England; [Weldon, Anthony] Aston Villa Football Club, Birmingham, W Midlands, England; [Nugent, Frank] Univ Limerick, Fac Educ & Hlth Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Limerick, Ireland; [Nugent, Frank] Univ Limerick, Sport & Human Performance Res Ctr, Limerick, Ireland; [Gee, Thomas I.] Univ Lincoln, Sch Sport & Exercise Sci, Lincoln, England; [Sperlich, Billy] Univ Wurzburg, Inst Sport Sci, Integrat & Expt Training Sci, Wurzburg, Germany; [Moore, Dan] Great British Rowing Team, Caversham, England; [Zi, Wei; Li, Yongming] China Inst Sport Sci, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Li, Yongming] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Athlet Performance, Changhai Rd 399, Shanghai, Peoples R China								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001307114200001	58	Article; Article		
J	Furley, Philip; Mehta, Saumya; Raabe, Dominik; Memmert, Daniel								Objectivity of match analysis in football: Testing the level of agreement between coaches' interpretations of video data								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	1			45	55		10.1177/17479541241278603			FEB 1 2025	2025	Using video data is a widespread procedure in the preparation for an upcoming opponent across all levels of football, but the way coaches interpret this data and use it for player feedback is still not fully understood. Three studies were conducted to investigate the level of agreement between football coaches on tactical questions regarding the opponent when interpreting the same video data. In Study 1 (scouting feed; N=15) and 2 (tactic view feed; N=24), different video viewing angles of the same match were provided to coaches, followed by simple questions regarding the viewed team (e.g., team formation, most striking player in the opening play of the attacking team). Response analyses using descriptive statistics and Fleiss-Kappa statistics showed great diversity regardless of the angle of the feed. Study 3 was a replication study (scouting feed; N=16) using the identical approach as before but used a different match to introduce greater variety of video stimuli. Across all studies there was a high degree of diversity in coach responses and little consensus on basic questions like the adopted formation or the most striking player in the opening play (Fleiss-Kappa coefficients between -.036 [poor agreement] and .236 [fair agreement]). The present research shows that it is problematic to treat information from video feeds as being objective when preparing for the next opponent, as different coaches derive different interpretations from the same data source. Implications for use of video data, and related contributions to coaching research are discussed.		[Furley, Philip; Mehta, Saumya; Raabe, Dominik; Memmert, Daniel] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Training & Comp Sci Sports, Cologne, Germany; [Furley, Philip] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Training & Comp Sci Sports, Sportpark Mungersdorf 6, D-50933 Cologne, Germany								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001305450300001	34	Article; Article		
J	Bradbery, Ewen; Cairns, Ross; Peek, Kerry								The relationship between header type and head acceleration during heading in male youth football players								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				70				36	43		10.1016/j.ptsp.2024.08.008			NOV 2024	2024	Objective: To explore head impact magnitude (linear head acceleration and rotational velocity) during heading for four different header types in youth male footballers. A secondary objective was to explore whether head impact magnitude was influenced by player-related factors (i.e. age, neck strength). Design: An observational field-based research design was utilised for this research. Participants: 27 youth male footballers (mean age14.81, SD1.88) from one football club. Main outcome measures: Peak linear acceleration and peak angular velocity were measured during four different header types (two from 15-m and two from 5-m). Maximal isometric neck strength of each player was also assessed (flexors, extensors, left and right-side flexors). Results: Statistically significant differences were observed between header type and both peak linear acceleration (F(3,78) = 60.90, R-2 = 0.76, p=<0.001) =<0.001) and peak angular velocity (F(3,78) = 43.63, R-2 = 0.75, p=<0.001). =<0.001). In terms of players related factors, for linear acceleration, 6% (P = 0.008) of the variance was predicted by age, and for angular velocity, 12% (P = 0.003) was predicted by age, with neck strength accounting for <9% of the variance. Conclusions: In this youth cohort, head impact magnitude during heading is influenced by the type of header being performed.		[Bradbery, Ewen] Australian Inst Sport, Bruce, ACT, Australia; [Bradbery, Ewen; Cairns, Ross] Newcastle Sports Med, Warners Bay, NSW, Australia; [Peek, Kerry] Univ Sydney, Fac Med & Hlth, Sch Hlth Sci, Sydney, Australia; [Bradbery, Ewen] Australian Inst Sport, Sports Med, Bruce, ACT 2617, Australia								3							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001309852800001	47	Article; Article		
J	Franken, Rob; Bekhuis, Hidde; Tolsma, Jochem								Choosing Your Sports Partners: Assessing Selection Preferences Through Observational and Experimental Studies								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				96	2			233	247		10.1080/02701367.2024.2389907			APR 3 2025	2025	Previous research has demonstrated the positive impact of doing sports together on maintaining physical activity levels. Yet, there remains a gap in understanding the selection processes leading to sports partnerships. We address this question using a two-study design. Study 1 examines longitudinal ego-network data; we analyze data of 1,222 sports partnerships among 409 Dutch university students. We find that emotional closeness, rather than skill similarity, is a key determinant of sports partnership continuation over time. We do not find that the sports setting in which sports partnerships are embedded (i.e. sports clubs, informal groups, commercial gyms, unorganized settings) affect the stability of sports partnerships. Study 2 employs a discrete choice experiment, in which individuals are tasked to choose a sports partner out of choice-sets consisting of three sports partners who vary in the types of motivations and resources they offer (i.e. social comparison, knowledge, companionship, encouragement). People express a strong preference for sports partners who emphasize social aspects of sports, but as individuals become more active, sports partners who emphasize social comparison and who are knowledgeable about sports gain attractiveness. We discuss the implications of these findings for tailored strategies leveraging social networks to promote sports participation.		[Franken, Rob; Bekhuis, Hidde; Tolsma, Jochem] Radboud Univ Nijmegen, Nijmegen, Netherlands; [Tolsma, Jochem] Univ Groningen, Groningen, Netherlands; [Franken, Rob] Radboud Univ Nijmegen, Dept Sociol, Thomas van Aquinostr 4, NL-6525 GD Nijmegen, Netherlands								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001302386700001	47	Article; Article		
J	Sezik, Atilla Cagatay; Uysal, Ozgun; Firat, Tuzun; Duzgun, Irem; Tunay, Volga Bayrakci								The Effects of Foam Rolling at Different Speeds on Mechanical Properties of Quadriceps Femoris								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				23	2			684	689		10.52082/jssm.2024.684			JUN 2024	2024	Foam rolling have gained popularity among elite athletes, but the effect of the speed parameter of foam rolling has not yet been determined. Our objective was to investigate the impact of different application speeds of foam roller on the mechanical properties of the quadriceps femoris muscle. Eighteen male professional basketball athletes (age 23 +/- 4 years, body mass index 24.43 +/- 1.59 kg/m(2)) participated in this study. We used a crossover design to randomize the order of the treatment speeds (30 beats per minute-FAST, 15 beats per minute-SLOW, and a self-determined speed-SELF) with a one-week washout period between each session. We measured dominant quadriceps femoris muscle tone, elasticity, and stiffness using the Myoton device before and after the interventions. We found that the average rate for SELF was 33 +/- 10 beats per minute, making SELF the fastest. All application speeds showed similar results in pre-intervention measurements of the mechanical properties of the tissues (P > 0.05). However, post hoc analysis revealed that a decrease was evident in SLOW compared to SELF in muscle tone in post-intervention measurements (P = 0.037). Also, we noted that comparison of pre- and post-intervention on FAST and SLOW showed a significant reduction in muscle tone (P = 0.002, P = 0.008). Slower foam rolling prior to training or competition may lead to a delay in the reaction time due to the reduction in tonus, that can increase the injury risks. Alternatively, the significant reduction in tonus may be useful in regulating the increased tonus after training and competition.		[Sezik, Atilla Cagatay] Yuksek Ihtisas Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Physiotherapy & Rehabil, TR-06520 Ankara, Turkiye; [Uysal, Ozgun; Firat, Tuzun; Duzgun, Irem; Tunay, Volga Bayrakci] Hacettepe Univ, Fac Phys Therapy & Rehabil, Ankara, Turkiye; [Sezik, Atilla Cagatay] Yuksek Ihtisas Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Physiotherapy & Rehabil, TR-06520 Ankara, Turkiye								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:001296655600001	27	Article; Article		
J	Shea, Ashley; Bahrami, Mohammadmahdi; Sardroodian, Mahta; Behm, David G.								The Effects of Static Stretching 2-Hours Prior to a Traditional Warm-Up on Performance								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				23	2			663	671		10.52082/jssm.2024.663			JUN 2024	2024	Whereas prolonged static stretching (SS: >60-seconds per muscle) can increase range of motion (ROM) for up to 2-hours, it can also decrease maximal voluntary isometric contraction (MVIC) forces, countermovement (CMJ) and drop jump (DJ) heights, and muscle activation immediately after the stretching exercise. When an appropriate SS duration (<60-seconds per muscle) is incorporated into a dynamic warm-up, performance decrements are often trivial. However, there is a lack of studies that observed the effects of extensive SS (180-seconds) 2-hours prior to a dynamic warm-up. The objective was to investigate ROM and performance effects of prolonged SS, 2-hours prior to a traditional warm-up. This study investigated 9 female and 8 male healthy recreationally active, young adult participants on the effects of prolonged SS (180-seconds per muscle) of the quadriceps and hamstrings, 2-hours before a traditional warm-up compared to an active control condition on hip flexion ROM, knee extension and flexion MVIC forces, CMJ, DJ, and quadriceps and hamstrings electromyography (EMG). There were no significant changes in knee flexion/extension MVIC forces, EMG, CMJ, or DJ height. However, there was significant, small magnitude (p = 0.002) greater post-warm-up left hip flexion ROM (115.4 degrees +/- 17.2) than pre-SS (108.9 degrees +/- 17.13, Effect size [ES]: 0.28) and control postwarm-up (p = 0.05, ES: 0.31, 109.5 degrees +/- 20.55). Similarly, right hip flexion ROM (117.2 degrees +/- 16.5) also demonstrated significant small magnitude (p = 0.003) greater than the pre-SS (112.4 degrees +/- 18.4, ES: 0.22) and control post-warm-up (p = 0.046, ES: 0.33, 110.8 degrees +/- 20.5). Additionally, significant, large magnitude greater hip flexion ROM was observed with the women vs. men (ES: 1.29 - 1.34). Significant hip flexion ROM increases were not accompanied by significant changes in knee flexion/extension MVIC forces, EMG, or jump heights, suggesting that extensive SS can positively impact ROM without performance deficits when followed by a traditional warm-up, 2-hours after SS.		[Shea, Ashley; Bahrami, Mohammadmahdi; Sardroodian, Mahta; Behm, David G.] Mem Univ Newfoundland, Sch Human Kinet & Recreat, St John, NF, Canada; [Behm, David G.] Mem Univ Newfoundland, Sch Human Kinet & Recreat, St John, NF, Canada								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:001296471100001	56	Article; Article		
J	Song, Yuan; Sheykhlouvand, Mohsen								A Comparative Analysis of High-Intensity Technique-Specific Intervals and Short Sprint Interval Training in Taekwondo Athletes: Effects on Cardiorespiratory Fitness and Anaerobic Power								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				23	2			672	683		10.52082/jssm.2024.672			JUN 2024	2024	Technique-specific high-intensity interval training (HIIT TS ) has been proven to be an effective method to enhance the sport-specific bio-motor abilities of taekwondo athletes. However, studies regarding its effects on comprehensive measures of cardiorespiratory fitness are limited. Furthermore, there is a lack of clarity regarding the extent of individual adaptations to this method compared to HIIT in the form of repeated sprints (HIIT RS ). This study compared the individual adaptations to HIIT RS and HIIT TS on cardiorespiratory fitness and anaerobic power in trained taekwondo athletes (age = 19.8 +/- 1.3 years; body mass = 75.4 +/- 9.1 kg; height = 1.73 +/- 0.0 .m). All participants completed three sessions per week of a 60-minute regular taekwondo training. Following the 60-minute training, participants completed 3 sets of 10 x 4 s allout HIIT RS or same sets of repeated kicks with both legs (HIIT TS ) over a 6-week training period. In both groups, rest intervals were set at 15 seconds between efforts and one minute between sets. Before and after the training period, participants underwent a series of lab- and field-based tests to evaluate cardiorespiratory fitness and bio-motor abilities. Both interventions resulted in significant improvements in maximum oxygen uptake (V O 2max ), O 2 pulse (V O 2 /HR), first ventilatory threshold (VT 1 ), second ventilatory threshold (VT 2 ), cardiac output (Q max ), stroke volume (SV), peak power output (PPO), average power output (APO), squat jump (SJ), and countermovement jump (CMJ). However, linear speed (20-m speed time) and taekwondo-specific agility test (TSAT) only responded to HIIT RS . HIIT RS resulted in greater changes in V O 2max , V O 2 /HR, VT 2 , and Q max , and higher percentage of responders in measured parameters than HIIT TS . In addition, HIIT RS elicited lower inter-individual variability (CV) in percent changes from pre- to post-training in all measured variables. These results suggest that incorporating 3 sessions per week of HIIT RS into regular taekwondo training results in significantly greater and more homogenized adaptations in cardiorespiratory fitness and bio-motor abilities than HIIT TS among trained taekwondo athletes.		[Song, Yuan] Chongqing Univ Technol, Dept Phys Educ, Chongqing 400054, Peoples R China; [Song, Yuan] UCSI Univ, Fac Social Sci & Liberal Arts, Kuala Lumpur 56000, Malaysia; [Sheykhlouvand, Mohsen] Univ Guilan, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Exercise Physiol, Rasht, Iran; [Sheykhlouvand, Mohsen] Univ Guilan, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Exercise Physiol, Rasht, Iran								28							Sport Sciences	WOS:001294811700001	56	Article; Article		
J	Ohtsubo, Ryo; Saito, Hiromi; Hirose, Norikazu								Characterizing Muscle Activity in Soccer Players with a History of Hamstring Strain Injuries during Accelerated Sprinting								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				23	2			656	662		10.52082/jssm.2024.656			JUN 2024	2024	This study aimed to characterize muscle activity in male soccer players with a history of hamstring strain injuries (HSI) during accelerated sprinting. Thirteen patients each in the HSI group (history of HSI) and in the healthy group (with no history of HSI) were included. 26 male soccer players of which 13 with and 13 without HSI history were included in this study. Ten muscles were evaluated on electromyography activity during overground sprinting. The testing protocol consisted of a maximal sprint over a distance of 30 meters. One running stride was divided into the early stance phase, late stance phase, early swing phase, midswing phase, and late swing phase, and the average muscle activity per phase and the timing of the peak root-mean-square value appearance during each stride were calculated. Statistical analysis was performed using repeated-measures two-way ANOVA (group x phase), and multiple comparison tests were performed using the Bonferroni method when the interaction or main effect was significant. The statistical significance level was set at p < 0.05. Gluteus maximus (Gmax), gluteus medius (Gmed), and external oblique (EO) showed activity differences based on HSI history. Gmax was 30% lower, EO was 20% lower, and Gmed was 40% higher in HSI group. This study suggests that, despite previous findings that HSI is most likely during the late swing phase, the HSI group shows a higher injury risk in the early stance phase. This is due to differences in trunk and gluteal muscle activity between the late swing and early stance phases compared to the healthy group. In summary, HSI group had lower activity in the muscles contributing to trunk instability, especially EO and Gmax, before and after ground impact during accelerated sprinting, compared to Healthy.		[Ohtsubo, Ryo] Waseda Univ, Grad Sch Sport Sci, 2-7-5 Higashifushimi, Nishitokyo, Tokyo 2020021, Japan; [Hirose, Norikazu] Waseda Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Tokyo, Japan; [Ohtsubo, Ryo] Waseda Univ, Grad Sch Sport Sci, 2-7-5 Higashifushimi, Nishitokyo, Tokyo 2020021, Japan								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:001290951500001	32	Article; Article		
J	Bashir, Marrium; Ma, Hucheng; Soh, Kim Geok; Akbar, Saddam; Zhang, Dong								Enhancing Physical Fitness in Elite Field Hockey Players with A Twelve-Week Functional Training Program: A Cluster Randomized Control Trial								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				23	2			628	637		10.52082/jssm.2024.628			JUN 2024	2024	This study aimed to explore the impact of functional training on the physical fitness of young elite field hockey players. The study comprised 40 young elite male field hockey players with the folexperience: 51.2 +/- 5.4 months). Twenty participants were allocated to two groups: the functional training group (FTG) and the control training group (CG). Each group received 60-minute training sessions three times per week for 12 weeks. Generalized estimating equation analysis and a Bonferroni test for pairwise comparisons were used to assess the intervention's efficacy. Before the start of the exercise program, no statistically significant differences were observed in physical fitness measures between the FTG and CG (p > 0.05). However, by the sixth week, a significant difference appeared in both the T-Agility test (p < 0.001) and endurance (p = 0.024) between the two groups, while no notable distinctions were detected in other fitness parameters (p > 0.05). After a 12-week training program, the FTG demonstrated improvements in all physical fitness measures [flexibility (p < endurance (p < 0.001)] except speed, which exhibited no significant impact (p = 0.175). Notable enhancements in T-agility and athletes' fitness parameters.		[Bashir, Marrium; Ma, Hucheng; Soh, Kim Geok; Akbar, Saddam; Zhang, Dong] Univ Putra Malaysia, Fac Educ Studies, Dept Sports Studies, Serdang, Selangor, Malaysia; [Ma, Hucheng; Soh, Kim Geok] Univ Putra Malaysia, Fac Educ Studies, Dept Sports Studies, Serdang, Selangor, Malaysia								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:001280960000001	49	Article; Article		
J	Wang, Tao; Xue, Tianqing; He, Jia								Do Different Playing Formats and Aerobic Capacity Influence Variances in Psychophysiological Demands and Technical Performance in Small-Sided Games? A Study among Under-17 Male Soccer Players								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				23	2			619	627		10.52082/jssm.2024.619			JUN 2024	2024	This study aimed to: (i) analyze the variations in psychophysiological demands (mean heart rate, meanHR; rate of perceived exertion, RPE) and technical performance (umber of successful and unsuccessful passes, and occurrences of ball loss) between 2v2 and 4v4 small-sided games (SSGs) formats, and (ii) examine the relationships of aerobic capacity measured in Yo-Yo Intermittent Recovery Test (YYIRT) on psychophysiological and technical performance during SSGs. This study used a cross-sectional design with repeated measures, where the same players participated in both 2v2 and 4v4 formats across two training sessions per format. Twenty-four talent/developmental male youth soccer players, aged 16.6 +/- 0.5 years. The meanHR, measured through heart rate sensors, the RPE, assessed using the CR6-20 scale, and the number of successful and unsuccessful passes, along with occurrences of ball loss, recorded using an ad hoc observational tool, were evaluated in each repetition. Players during the 2v2 format had significantly greater mean HR (+4.1%; p < 0.001; d = 2.258), RPE (+12.2%; p < 0.001; d = 2.258), successful passes (+22.2%; p = 0.006; d = 0.884), unsuccessful passes (+62.5%; p < 0.001; d = 1.197) and lost balls (+111.1%; p < 0.001; d = 2.085) than 4v4 format. The YYIRT was significantly and largely correlated with unsuccessful passes (r = 0.502; p = 0.012) and lost balls (r = 0.421; p = 0.041) in 2v2 format. In conclusion, this study suggests that engaging in 2v2 activities constitutes a more intense form of practice, significantly enhancing individual participation in technical aspects. Moreover, aerobic capacity may influence the smaller formats of play and how players perform key technical actions. Therefore, coaches must consider this to ensure the necessary performance in such games.		[Wang, Tao] Geely Univ China, Chengdu 641423, Peoples R China; [Xue, Tianqing] Chizhou Univ, Sch Phys Educ, Chizhou 247000, Anhui, Peoples R China; [He, Jia] Sichuan Normal Univ, Chengdu, Peoples R China; [Xue, Tianqing] Chizhou Univ, Sch Phys Educ, Chizhou 247000, Anhui, Peoples R China								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:001277875900001	47	Article; Article		
J	Yang, Chengbo; Shi, Lin; Lu, Yanan; Wu, Hongli; Yu, Dawei								Post-activation Performance Enhancement of Countermovement Jump after Drop Jump versus Squat Jump Exercises in Elite Rhythmic Gymnasts								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				23	2			611	618		10.52082/jssm.2024.611			JUN 2024	2024	Drop jump (DJ) and squat jump (SJ) exercises are commonly used in rhythmic gymnastics training. However, the acute effects of DJ and SJ on countermovement jump (CMJ) performance have not been investigated. This study aimed to verify the post-activation performance enhancement (PAPE) responses induced by DJ and SJ with optimal power load and evaluate the relationship between peak PAPE effects and strength levels. Twenty female rhythmic gymnasts completed the following exercises in a randomized order on three separate days: 6 repetitions of DJs; 6 repetitions of SJs with optimal power load; and no exercise (control condition). Jump height was assessed before (baseline) and at 30 seconds and 3, 6, and 9 minutes after each exercise. DJs significantly improved jump height by 0.8 cm (effect size (ES) = 1.13; P = 0.003) at 30 seconds post-exercise compared with baseline. Jump height significantly decreased by -0.35 cm (ES = -0.61; P = 0.021) at 9 minutes after the control condition. SJs significantly improved jump height by 1.02 cm (ES = 1.6; P = 0.005) at 9 minutes postafter performing DJs (r = 0.63; P = 0.003) and SJs (r = 0.64; P = strength level benefited the most from these exercises.		[Yang, Chengbo; Wu, Hongli] Chengdu Sport Univ, Sch Athlet Training, Chengdu, Peoples R China; [Shi, Lin] Chengdu Sport Univ, Ctr Postdoctoral Studies Sport Sci, Chengdu, Peoples R China; [Shi, Lin] Chengdu Sport Univ, Ctr Strength & Conditioning Training, Chengdu, Peoples R China; [Lu, Yanan] Univ Putra Malaysia, Fac Human Ecol, Serdang, Selangor, Malaysia; [Yu, Dawei] Taizhou Univ, Sch Teacher Educ Phys Educ, Taizhou, Peoples R China; [Wu, Hongli] Huanhubei Rd 1942, Chengdu, Sichuan, Peoples R China; [Yu, Dawei] Dongfang Ave 605, Linhai, Zhejiang, Peoples R China								12							Sport Sciences	WOS:001276266100001	28	Article; Article		
J	Brandl, Andreas; Keiner, Michael; Wilke, Jan; Egner, Christoph; Schleip, Robert; Schmidt, Tobias								Effects of a Manual Treatment on Lumbar Microcirculation and Tissue Stiffness Following Submaximal Eccentric Trunk Extensor Exercise: A Randomized Controlled Trial								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				23	2			581	592		10.52082/jssm.2024.581			JUN 2024	2024	Recent studies have shown that the extramuscular connective tissue (ECT) is thickened and stiffened in delayed onset muscle soreness (DOMS). However, contrarily to the normal population, severe DOMS is rare in athletes or highly trained individuals. The present randomized, controlled trial therefore aimed to investigate pain as well as microcirculation and stiffness of the ECT and the erector spinae muscle following submaximal eccentric trunk extension exercise not causing DOMS. The effect of manual treatment by a therapist (myofascial release; MFR) on these parameters was to be studied. Trained healthy participants (n = 21; 31.3 +/- 9.6 years; > 4 h exercise per week) performed submaximal eccentric exercise of the trunk extensors. One group was manually treated (n = 11), while the other group (n = 10) received placebo treatment with sham laser therapy. Stiffness of the ECT and the erector spinae muscle (shear wave elastography), microcirculation (white light and laser Doppler spectroscopy), palpation pain (100 mm visual analogue scale, VAS) and pressure pain threshold (indentometry, PPT) were assessed before (t(0)), 24 h (t(24)) and 48 h (t(48)) after conditions. Erector spinae muscle stiffness increased after eccentric exercise from t(0) to t(24) (0.875 m/s) and from t(0) to t(48) (0.869 m/s). After MFR, erector spinae muscle stiffness decreased in contrast to placebo treatment at t(24) (-0.66 m/s), while ECT stiffness remained unchanged. Oxygen saturation increased (17-20.93%) and relative haemoglobin decreased (-9.1 - -12.76 AU) after eccentric exercise and MFR differed from placebo treatment at t(48) (-3.71 AU). PPT differed after MFR from placebo treatment at t(48) (20.69 N/mm), while VAS remained unchanged. Multiple linear regression showed that ECT stiffness and group membership predicted erector spinae muscle stiffness. MFR could have a positive effect on pain, microcirculation and muscle stiffness after submaximal eccentric exercise, suggesting better recovery, which needs to be confirmed by future work.		[Brandl, Andreas] Univ Hamburg, Inst Human Movement Sci, Fac Psychol & Human Movement Sci, Dept Sports Med, Hamburg, Germany; [Brandl, Andreas; Schleip, Robert] Tech Univ Munich, Dept Sport & Hlth Sci Conservat & Rehabil Orthoped, Munich, Germany; [Brandl, Andreas; Egner, Christoph; Schleip, Robert] Diploma Hsch, Dept Med Profess, Bad Sooden Allendorf, Germany; [Brandl, Andreas; Keiner, Michael] German Univ Hlth & Sport, Dept Training & Exercise Sci, Ismaning, Germany; [Wilke, Jan] Univ Bayreuth, Dept Neuromotor & Movement, Bayreuth, Germany; [Schmidt, Tobias] Osteopathie Sch Deutschland, Osteopath Res Inst, Hamburg, Germany; [Schmidt, Tobias] MSH Med Sch Hamburg, Inst Interdisciplinary Exercise Sci & Sports Med, Hamburg, Germany; [Schleip, Robert] Tech Univ Munich, Dept Sport & Hlth Sci Conservat & Rehabil Orthoped, Munich, Germany; [Schmidt, Tobias] MSH Med Sch Hamburg, Inst Interdisciplinary Exercise Sci & Sports Med, Hamburg, Germany								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:001268277400001	53	Article; Article		
J	Kuzdzal, Adrian; Clemente, Filipe Manue; Kawczynski, Adam; Ryszkiel, Ireneusz; Trybulski, Robert								Comparing The Effects of Compression Contrast Therapy and Dry Needling on Muscle Functionality, Pressure Pain Threshold, and Perfusion after Isometric Fatigue in Forearm Muscles of Combat Sports Athletes: A Single-Blind Randomized Controlled Trial								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				23	2			548	558		10.52082/jssm.2024.548			JUN 2024	2024	The aim of this study was to compare the acute effects of compression contrast therapy (CT) and dry needling therapy (DN) on muscle tension (MT), muscle strength (Fmax), pressure pain threshold (PPT), and perfusion (PU) following fatigue of forearm muscles (e.g., flexor carpi radialis) in combat sports athletes. A single-blind randomized controlled trial was employed. Participants first underwent muscle fatigue induction, which involved sustaining an isometric handgrip at 60% of their maximum voluntary contraction in 5-second cycles. This was followed by exposure to one of the regenerative therapies. Forty-five participants were randomly assigned to one of three groups: CT/DN (n = 15), CT/ShDN (n = 15), and ShCT/DN (n = 15). The sham condition (Sh) involved a simulated version of the technique. Measurements were taken at four time points: (i) at rest; (ii) immediately after exercise that led to a state of fatigue; (iii) 5 minutes after therapy (PostTh5min); and (iv) 24 hours after therapy (PostTh24h). Each participant was exposed to one experimental condition and one control condition, thereby undergoing evaluation in two sessions. Significant differences between groups were found in MT during the PostTh5min (p = 0.005), as well as in PU during the PostTh5min (p < 0.001) and PU during the PostTh24h (p < 0.001). All groups showed significant improvements at 5 minutes post-therapy compared to immediately post-muscle fatigue. As conclusions, CT/DN seems to be significantly better for enhancing MT and PU after 5 minutes of muscle fatigue induction. Using either CT, DN, or both combined is recommended to enhance the recovery of muscle functionality and properties, favoring recovery and potentially speeding up performance enhancement.		[Kuzdzal, Adrian] Univ Rzeszow, Inst Hlth Sci, Coll Med Sci, Rzeszow, Poland; [Clemente, Filipe Manue; Kawczynski, Adam] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, Dept Biomech & Sport Engn, Gdansk, Poland; [Clemente, Filipe Manue] Inst Politecn Viana Castelo, Escola Super Desporto & Lazer, Rua Escola Ind & Comercial Nun Alvares, Viana Do Castelo, Portugal; [Clemente, Filipe Manue] Sport Phys Act & Hlth Res & Innovat Ctr, Viana Do Castelo, Portugal; [Ryszkiel, Ireneusz] Med Univ Silesia, Coll Med Sci, Katowice, Poland; [Trybulski, Robert] Upper Silesian Acad, Med Dept Wojciech Korfanty, Katowice, Poland; [Trybulski, Robert] Provita Zory Med Ctr, Zory, Poland; [Clemente, Filipe Manue] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, Dept Biomech & Sport Engn, Gdansk, Poland; [Clemente, Filipe Manue] Inst Politecn Viana Castelo, Escola Super Desporto & Lazer, Rua Escola Ind & Comercial Nun Alvares, Viana Do Castelo, Portugal; [Clemente, Filipe Manue] Sport Phys Act & Hlth Res & Innovat Ctr, Viana Do Castelo, Portugal								14							Sport Sciences	WOS:001267260900001	57	Article; Article		
J	Lin, Jian-Zhi; Hung, Min-Hao; Ko, Bo-Jen; Lee, Heng-Ju								Analysing lower limb motion and muscle activation in athletes with ankle instability during dual-task drop-jump								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	7			1899	1913		10.1080/14763141.2024.2369910			JUL 3 2025	2025	This study investigates the impact of chronic ankle instability (CAI) on athletes' lower extremity mechanics during bounce drop-jump landings with divided attention. Thirty Division I physical education voluntarily participated in the study. They performed two sets of bounce drop jumps: one set with a divided attention task and the other without. The obtained data were analysed using a paired t-test to compare the outcomes between the divided attention (DA) and non-divided attention (NDA) tasks. Athletes with CAI, during the DA task, displayed higher vertical landing forces, increased ankle inversion velocity, and greater range of motion of the ankle, knee, and hip in the frontal and transverse planes. They also exhibited insufficient neuromuscular preparation of the rectus femoris muscle. Notably, distinct kinematic alterations were observed in the ankle, knee, and hip joints regarding frontal and transverse lower-extremity kinematics. The findings suggest that athletes with CAI experience decreased activation of the rectus femoris muscle, which may impact their dynamic postural stability from pre-landing to ascending phases. Furthermore, the results indicate that individuals with CAI closely replicate the injury mechanisms encountered during a drop-jump landing task with divided attention. These insights offer valuable information about the real-time challenges faced by athletes with CAI.		[Lin, Jian-Zhi] Natl Taiwan Univ Sport, Dept Phys Educ, Taichung, Taiwan; [Hung, Min-Hao] Natl Chin Yi Univ Technol, Off Phys Educ, Taichung, Taiwan; [Ko, Bo-Jen] Natl Taichung Univ Educ, Dept Phys Educ, Taichung, Taiwan; [Lee, Heng-Ju] Natl Taiwan Normal Univ, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Taipei, Taiwan; [Lee, Heng-Ju] Natl Taiwan Normal Univ, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Taipei, Taiwan								5							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001302342700001	51	Article; Article		
J	Esposito, Elisa Habluetzel; Derikx, Dagmar F. A. A.; Houwen, Suzanne; Schoemaker, Marina M.; Hartman, Esther								Participation Patterns in Leisure Activities of 6-to 8-Year-Old Typically Developing Children in Relation to Their Motor Performance								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				96	1			201	212		10.1080/02701367.2024.2389890			JAN 2 2025	2025	The average level of children's motor performance has decreased in the past decades. Therefore, it is important to identify risk- or enabling factors for motor performance. One such factor could be children's participation in leisure activities (LA). LA are non-obligatory and intrinsically motivated activities performed during free time. They include physical activities, such as individual and team sports and other types of activities, such as doing crafts, hanging out with friends, and playing musical instruments. The present study explores how participating in different combinations of LA (i.e. participation patterns) are related to children's motor performance using a person-centered approach. Ninety 6- to 8-year-old typically developing children (57.8% boys) were recruited from six Dutch primary schools. LA participation and motor performance were measured with the Children's Assessment of Participation and Enjoyment questionnaire and the Movement Assessment Battery for Children-2, respectively. Children were grouped in patterns using Cluster Analysis. Comparisons among patterns were performed with one-way multivariate analysis of variance. As hypothesized, children who participated in a greater variety of LA (i.e., higher participation diversity) and who engaged more frequently in each LA (i.e., higher participation intensity) scored better on manual dexterity, balance, and total motor performance compared to those with lower participation diversity and intensity. Based on these findings, coaches, physical educators, and parents should create opportunities for children to participate in a broad range of LA and to engage in these LA frequently.		[Esposito, Elisa Habluetzel; Derikx, Dagmar F. A. A.; Schoemaker, Marina M.; Hartman, Esther] Univ Groningen, Univ Med Ctr Groningen, Dept Human Movement Sci, POB 196, NL-9700 AD Groningen, Netherlands; [Esposito, Elisa Habluetzel] South East Technol Univ SETU, Waterford, Ireland; [Houwen, Suzanne] Univ Groningen, Groningen, Netherlands; [Derikx, Dagmar F. A. A.] Univ Groningen, Univ Med Ctr Groningen, Dept Human Movement Sci, POB 196, NL-9700 AD Groningen, Netherlands								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001300324500001	58	Article; Article		
J	Neto, Francisco O.; Silva, Geovani M.; Simim, Mario A. M.; Banja, Tulio; Sousa, Filipa; Fonseca, Pedro; Goethel, Marcio; Romero, Ricardo; de Jesus, Karla; Medeiros, Alexandre I. A.								Are there differences in the kinetic parameters of the vertical jump performed by beach volleyball players on different types of sand?								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	12			3171	3180		10.1080/14763141.2024.2394803			DEC 1 2024	2024	Beach volleyball (BV) is an intermittent sport characterised by short-duration and highly demanding activities with low intensity periods. Establishing if players' jump ability is influenced by sand granulometry is a useful information for sport scientists, coaches and players. This study aimed to assess the possible differences in the kinetics parameters of the vertical jump on different types of sand performed by BV players. Twelve elite female players performed six countermovement jumps (CMJs) in three different surface conditions (fine sand, reference, coarse sand) in a random counterbalanced order (216 jumps). A generalised mixed model approach detected differences for CMJ model in total duration (p: 0.016), eccentric phase duration (p: 0.007), concentric phase duration (p: 0.011), time to peak power (p: < 0.001), time to peak force (p: 0.014), maximum rate force development concentric phase (p: 0.004), maximum velocity (p: 0.028) and peak power eccentric (p: 0.018). Coarse sand decreases the time spent jumping compared to fine sand, without a penalty to jump height. Coaches and athletes should take this information into account to enhance their understanding of practice strategies and game conditions. One might anticipate a faster pace in games played on coarse sand and a slower pace on fine sand.		[Neto, Francisco O.; Silva, Geovani M.; Simim, Mario A. M.; Banja, Tulio; Medeiros, Alexandre I. A.] Univ Fed Ceara, Inst Phys Educ & Sports, Res Grp Biodynam Human Movement, Fortaleza, Brazil; [Neto, Francisco O.; Simim, Mario A. M.; Banja, Tulio; Medeiros, Alexandre I. A.] Univ Fed Ceara, Master Program Physiotherapy & Functioning, Fortaleza, Brazil; [Neto, Francisco O.] Praia Clube, Dept Sports, Uberlandia, Brazil; [Silva, Geovani M.] Univ Fed Paraiba, Grad Program Phys Educ, Joao Pessoa, Brazil; [Sousa, Filipa; Goethel, Marcio] Univ Porto FADEUP, Fac Sport, Ctr Res Educ Innovat & Intervent Sport CIFI2D, Porto, Portugal; [Sousa, Filipa; Fonseca, Pedro; Goethel, Marcio] Univ Porto, Lab Biomech, Porto, Portugal; [Romero, Ricardo] Univ Fed Ceara, Dept Soil Sci, Fortaleza, Brazil; [de Jesus, Karla] Univ Fed Amazonas, Fac Phys Educ & Physiotherapy, Human Performance Studies Lab, Manaus, Brazil; [Medeiros, Alexandre I. A.] Univ Fed Ceara, Inst Phys Educ & Sports, Res Grp Biodynam Human Movement, Fortaleza, Brazil; [Medeiros, Alexandre I. A.] Univ Fed Ceara, Master Program Physiotherapy & Functioning, Fortaleza, Brazil								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001300539400001	39	Article; Article		
J	Silva, Hugo; Nakamura, Fabio Yuzo; Serpiello, Fabio R.; Ribeiro, Joao; Roriz, Paulo; Marcelino, Rui								Adapting the percentage intensity method to assess accelerations and decelerations in football: moving beyond absolute and arbitrary thresholds								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	12			3514	3525		10.1080/14763141.2024.2393188			DEC 1 2024	2024	We adapted the percentage intensity approach to monitor accelerations and decelerations allowing players' individualisation. Forty-two players were monitored during four microcycles via global navigation satellite system devices. Raw velocity and time data were collected to calculate acceleration and deceleration magnitudes according to specific starting speed intervals, and the efforts intensities were established as very low (<25% of the maximal effort), low (25-50%), moderate (50-75%) and high (>75%). Linear regressions and Pearson correlation (r) analysed the relationship between maximal efforts and starting speeds; additionally, mean paired differences compared efforts magnitudes between subsequent starting speed intervals. Most very low intensity accelerations (86%) and decelerations (79%) started from <5 km.h(-1). Correlation between maximal efforts and starting speeds were r = -0.97 (p < .001) for acceleration, and r = -0.94 (p < .01) for deceleration. Maximal acceleration decreased as starting speed increases (very large effect sizes), but deceleration is less starting speed dependent (unclear to large effect sizes). This adaptation allows practitioners to individualise accelerations and decelerations classification during real-life scenarios, leading to a more precise training prescription. The very low intensity interval could be excluded to consider only relevant efforts. Maximal acceleration should be collected for each starting speed interval because accelerations are starting speed dependents.		[Silva, Hugo; Nakamura, Fabio Yuzo; Ribeiro, Joao; Roriz, Paulo; Marcelino, Rui] Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev, Creat Lab Res Community, Vila Real, Portugal; [Silva, Hugo; Nakamura, Fabio Yuzo; Ribeiro, Joao; Roriz, Paulo; Marcelino, Rui] Univ Maia, Dept Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Maia, Portugal; [Serpiello, Fabio R.] Victoria Univ, Inst Hlth & Sport, Melbourne, Australia; [Ribeiro, Joao] Sporting Clube Braga SAD, GOD, Dept Performance Optimizat, Braga, Portugal; [Roriz, Paulo] Futebol Clube Pacos de Ferreira, CastorLab High Performance Dept, Pacos De Ferreira, Portugal; [Serpiello, Fabio R.] Cent Queensland Univ, Sch Hlth Med & Appl Sci, Human Exercise & Training Lab, Rockhampton, Qld, Australia; [Marcelino, Rui] Portugal Football Sch, Portuguese Football Federat, Oeiras, Portugal; [Silva, Hugo] Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev, Creat Lab Res Community, Vila Real, Portugal; [Silva, Hugo] Univ Maia, Dept Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Maia, Portugal								10							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001301318800001	34	Article; Article		
J	Kielkopf, Felix; Keiner, Michael								The technical-tactical profile of soccer goalkeepers: The impact of age and competitive level								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	1			173	183		10.1177/17479541241275914			FEB 1 2025	2025	The aim of the study was to evaluate the technical-tactical requirements profile of goalkeepers and to assess the influence of age and performance level. Therefore, 213 league matches involving elite youth soccer players (under 17 years old [U17], U19), semi-professional (U23, Germany's 4th league), and professional teams (Germany's 1(st) and 2(nd) league) were analyzed. Goalkeeper actions related to distribution, space defense, and goal defense were qualitatively recorded using a predefined categorization system by two independent raters, ensuring rigorous examination. The distribution of actions across offensive play, space defense, and goal defense was consistent, indicating robust patterns regardless of age or competitive level. Specifically, offensive play actions constituted about 73-77% of all actions, space defense accounted for 13-15%, and goal defense comprised 10-12%. This uniformity suggests that despite variations in age and competitive levels, the technical requirements profiles of U17, U19, U23, and professional goalkeepers largely coincide. Consequently, goalkeepers should be introduced to building play under pressure as early as possible. Training focused on playing with the feet under pressure should hold a high priority in goalkeeper training.		[Kielkopf, Felix; Keiner, Michael] DHGS German Univ Hlth & Sport, Dept Exercise & Training Sci, Ismaning, Germany; [Kielkopf, Felix] Football Club 1 FC Nurnberg, Nurnberg, Germany; [Keiner, Michael] DHGS German Univ Hlth & Sport, Dept Exercise & Training Sci, Ismaning, Germany								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001300193200001	31	Article; Article		
J	Geisler, Christina; Hannigan, J. J.								A biomechanical comparison of track spikes with advanced footwear technology to a traditional track spike in female distance runners								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	12			3667	3679		10.1080/14763141.2024.2393199			DEC 1 2024	2024	The addition of highly responsive lightweight foam and a stiff plate in the midsole of long-distance road racing shoes has yielded significant energetic cost savings that have translated to notable improvements in performance. This new foam and stiff plate technology have since been implemented in long-distance track spikes, where performances have also improved. However, the impact of spikes with advanced footwear technology (AFT) on distance running biomechanics has been studied minimally to date. Therefore, the purpose of this study was to compare running biomechanics between two spikes which incorporate AFT (Nike ZoomX Dragonfly, Nike Air Zoom Victory) to a traditional spike (Nike Zoom Matumbo). Seventeen competitive collegiate female runners completed 60 m trials at their 5k race pace in each spike condition while outfitted with IMU sensors and plantar pressure insoles. We observed significantly lower peak ankle dorsiflexion in the Dragonfly and Victory compared to the Matumbo and lower whole foot, forefoot and rearfoot peak and average pressure in the Dragonfly compared to the Matumbo and Victory. The acute biomechanical alterations observed in this study warrant future investigation into the association between running biomechanics and racing performance in track spikes with advanced footwear technology.		[Geisler, Christina] Oregon State Univ, Coll Hlth, Program Kinesiol, Corvallis, OR USA; [Hannigan, J. J.] Oregon State Univ Cascades, Coll Hlth, Program Phys Therapy, Bend, OR 97702 USA; [Hannigan, J. J.] Oregon State Univ Cascades, Coll Hlth, Program Phys Therapy, Bend, OR 97702 USA								1							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001299589500001	35	Article; Article		
J	Bian, Junyi; Cork, Benjamin Colin								A machine learning approach to predict classification of fans' attitudes toward sponsors								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				26	4			843	861		10.1108/IJSMS-06-2024-0118			DEC 2 2025	2025	PurposeThis study aims to develop and validate an accurate machine learning model to categorize NBA fans into meaningful clusters based on their perceptions of sport sponsorship. Additionally, by predicting the intensity of NBA fans' attitudes toward sponsors, the authors intend to identify the specific features that influence prediction, discuss these findings and offer implications for academics and practitioners in sport sponsorship.Design/methodology/approachThis study used a sample of 1,142 NBA fans who were recruited through Amazon Mechanical Turk (MTurk). Fans identification, sponsorship fit, behavioral intentions, sponsor altruistic motive, sponsor normative motive, sponsor egoistic motive were surveyed as predictors, whereas fans' attitudes toward sponsors was collected as the dependent variable. The LASSO regression, SVM, KNN, RF and XGboost were used to develop and validate the prediction model after verifying the measurement model by the Exploratory Factor Analysis (EFA) and Confirmatory Factor Analysis (CFA).FindingsThe RF model had the best accurate in predicting the intensity of fans' attitudes toward sponsors, achieving an AUC of 0.919 with a sensitivity of 0.872, a specificity of 0.828, a PPV of 0.873, a NPV of 0.828 and an accuracy of 0.848. The most influential feature in the model was "the fit of 0.301". "Fans' perceptions of sponsor's normative motive", "behavioral intentions supporting sponsors", "fans' identification with their favorite team", "fans' perceptions of sponsor's altruistic motive" and "fans' perceptions of sponsor's egoistic motive" were exhibited in descending order.Originality/valueThis study is the first in sport sponsorship to accurately classify the intensity of fans' attitudes toward sponsors as either high or low using machine learning models, and to formulate how fans' attitudes formed toward sponsors from their perceptions of sponsorship process.		[Bian, Junyi; Cork, Benjamin Colin] Western Michigan Univ, Dept Human Performance & Hlth Educ, Kalamazoo, MI 49008 USA; [Bian, Junyi] Western Michigan Univ, Dept Human Performance & Hlth Educ, Kalamazoo, MI 49008 USA								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001297265400001	37	Article; Article		
J	Liu, Xuepeng; Ornelas, Emanuel; Shi, Huimin								Was COVID-19 a Game Changer for the Tokyo and Beijing Olympics?								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				25	7			866	886		10.1177/15270025241269957			OCT 2024	2024	No, it was not. We do not find evidence that the COVID-19 pandemic affected the distribution of medals in a systematic way. Countries that suffered a higher share of deaths due to the pandemic, or that imposed stricter lockdowns, performed just as prior performances and standard economic and demographic variables alone would have predicted. Hence, while COVID-19 has surely affected the performance of some individual athletes, it did not have a perceptible effect on the distribution of medals across countries. The only impact of the pandemic on the outcome of the Games was to reduce the advantage that host countries traditionally have. This effect, probably caused by the lack of local spectators in most competitions, was particularly strong for teams' events, where the "host effect" vanished.		[Liu, Xuepeng] Kennesaw State Univ, Kennesaw, GA USA; [Ornelas, Emanuel] Sao Paulo Sch Econ, FGV, CEPR, CESifo,CEP LSE, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Shi, Huimin] Renmin Univ China, 59 Zhongguancun St, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Shi, Huimin] Renmin Univ China, 59 Zhongguancun St, Beijing, Peoples R China								3							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001298489700001	14	Article; Article		
J	Alway, Peter; Felton, Paul; James, Iain; King, Mark; McErlain-Naylor, Stuart								Differences in cricket fast bowling kinematics between grass and artificial surface pitches								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	7			2042	2055		10.1080/14763141.2024.2394804			JUL 3 2025	2025	Cricket fast bowling training and research are often conducted on artificial turf, while matches are played on natural grass. It is unknown if technique differs between the different surfaces; therefore, the aim of this study was to explore if fast bowling technique differed between surfaces. Shoe slip distance and kinematic and temporal parameters previously associated with ball release velocity and lumbar bone stress injury were determined for eight male sub-elite fast bowlers using three-dimensional motion analysis on grass and artificial surfaces. Paired t-test and statistical parametric mapping were used to identify differences in technique between surfaces. Significantly greater slip distance was observed during back and front foot contact on the artificial surface compared to bowling on the grass surface. No kinematic or temporal parameter significantly differed between surfaces, therefore fast bowling technique is likely similar between grass and artificial surfaces, and previous research utilising artificial surfaces in fast bowling research is likely to be valid.		[Alway, Peter; James, Iain] England & Wales Cricket Board, Dept Sci & Med, Loughborough, England; [Alway, Peter; King, Mark; McErlain-Naylor, Stuart] Loughborough Univ, Sch Sport Exercise & Hlth Sci, Loughborough, England; [Felton, Paul] Nottingham Trent Univ, Nottingham, England; [Alway, Peter] Loughborough Univ, Natl Cricket Performance Ctr, Loughborough & Haslegrave Cricket Ground, Loughborough, England								1							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001313408100001	38	Article; Article		
J	Mehta, Saumya; Bassek, Manuel; Garnica-Caparros, Marc; Memmert, Daniel								"Chop and Change": Examining the occurrence of squad rotation and its effect on team performance in top European football leagues								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	6			2467	2475		10.1177/17479541241274438			DEC 2024	2024	The occurrence of squad rotation in football and its effect on team performance in terms of points have not been comprehensively studied in football performance analysis literature. This study deploys a data-driven approach to examine the occurrence of squad rotation across English, French, Italian and Spanish leagues over multiple seasons. It aims to establish the relationship observed between average squad rotations in starting lineups and end-of-season points. A total of 16,720 matches dating from the 2010/11 to 2021/22 seasons were analysed for average rotations in each team involved and the respective team's end of season points, alongside contextual information such as injury and logarithmic market value. A linear mixed-effects model was used to study this relationship, with each variable as well as interaction of variables being analysed for fixed effects. The results show that a significant relationship exists between team success, average rotation of the team per match and market value of the team, while no significant effects are found for injuries. The results describe how universally deploying squad rotation may not yield higher points over a season, but also shows how the effect of rotations on team success keep increasing as the market value of teams increases.		[Mehta, Saumya; Bassek, Manuel; Garnica-Caparros, Marc; Memmert, Daniel] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Exercise Training & Sport Informat, Cologne, Germany; [Mehta, Saumya] Sportpark Mungersdorf 6, D-50933 Cologne, Germany								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001296404400001	31	Article; Article		
J	O'Connor, Ciaran; Chrystal, Ross; Mc Intyre, Martin; Delahunt, Eamonn; Thorborg, Kristian								Hip adduction and abduction strength values in elite-level male and female youth soccer players: A comparison between sexes, and across age-groups								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				70				7	14		10.1016/j.ptsp.2024.08.006			NOV 2024	2024	Objectives: To report isometric hip adduction squeeze and abduction press strength values of elite-level youth male and female soccer players and examine if differences exist between sexes, and age-groups. Design: Cross-sectional cohort study. Setting: Elite youth soccer academy. Participants: 102 soccer players (n = 64; male, n = 38 female) competing in the national youth soccer leagues from under (U) 14-19 years of age level (U-14, U-15, U-17, U-19). Main outcome measures: Isometric hip adduction and abduction strength values were measured with a ForceFrame in various testing positions. Results: Isometric hip adduction and abduction strength values are presented. Male U-17 and U-19 players demonstrated significantly greater (p < 0.05) absolute(N) and relative (N/kg) hip adduction and abduction strength than their female counterparts, with large (eta(2) = 0.068-0.227) and medium-to-large (eta(2) = 0.049-0.234) effect size, respectively. Significant differences in absolute strength, but not relative strength, were observed for hip adduction and abduction between male age-groups (U-14, U-15, U-17, U-19), with hip abduction strength differences only existing between U-14 and U-17 groups. No significant differences in hip strength were observed between U-17 and U-19 groups for female players. Conclusion: Male youth soccer players have higher absolute and relative hip adduction and abduction strength than females at the U-17 and U-19 level.		[O'Connor, Ciaran; Delahunt, Eamonn] Univ Coll Dublin, Sch Publ Hlth Physiotherapy & Sports Sci, Dublin, Ireland; [Chrystal, Ross] Atlantic Technol Univ, Dept Hlth & Nutr Sci, Sligo, Ireland; [Chrystal, Ross; Mc Intyre, Martin] Sports Injuries & Sport Med Clin, Castlebar, Mayo, Ireland; [Delahunt, Eamonn] Univ Coll Dublin, Inst Sport & Hlth, Dublin, Ireland; [Thorborg, Kristian] Univ Copenhagen, Amager Hvidovre Hosp, Sports Orthopaed Res Ctr Copenhagen SORC C, Inst Clin Med,Dept Orthopaed Surg, Copenhagen, Denmark; [O'Connor, Ciaran] Univ Coll Dublin, Dublin, Sligo, Ireland								9							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001302114100001	40	Article; Article		
J	Koh, Koon Teck; Komar, John; Tarkington, Newman; Tan, Eliza Shi Ru								The effects of values and principles in sports coach education course designed to promote values-driven coaching styles								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	6			2272	2285		10.1177/17479541241266975			DEC 2024	2024	The ability of youth sport coaches to intentionally teach athletes values is often recognised as a critical pursuit throughout youth sport research. However, as coach education programmes and coach development systems seek to enhance the knowledge and skills of coaches, there is a need to investigate the effects that these initiatives have on coaching practices. The purpose of this multi-methods study was to investigate the effectiveness and perceived benefits of the Values and Principles in Sport (VPS) coach education course, specifically regarding values-driven coaching practices. Twenty-seven coaches and athletes from their teams (n = 85) participated in the study. Fourteen coaches attended the VPS course, which aimed to equip coaches with knowledge and skills for promoting values-driven coaching practices. Among this group, quantitative data were collected using a coach-centric systematic observation tool and an athlete survey, while qualitative data were collected through individual interviews with coaches and focus groups with athletes. Additionally, the 13 coaches who did not attend the VPS course - as well as athletes from their teams - were included in a control group and completed the quantitative measures. Quantitative results that are related to teaching values suggest that coaches who attended the VPS course did not perform better than those in the control group. However, the course did impact coaching style, suggesting high inter-individual differences in coaching styles (i.e., reserved, average, engaging, purposeful, and VPS-active). Qualitative results highlight that, among coaches who attended the VPS course, the course contributed to understanding and awareness related to teaching values in sport and the transfer of values outside of sport. Taken together, the study underscores the value of incorporating practical components in designing a VPS course, as well as the potential for individualising coach development pathways based on coaching style.		[Koh, Koon Teck; Komar, John] Nanyang Technol Univ, Natl Inst Educ Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Singapore, Singapore; [Tarkington, Newman] Univ Kentucky, Coll Social Work, Louisville, KY USA; [Tan, Eliza Shi Ru] Singapore Sport Inst, Character & Leadership Programme, Sport Singapore, Singapore, Singapore; [Koh, Koon Teck] Nanyang Technol Univ, Phys Educ & Sports Sci, 1 Nanyang Walk, Singapore 637616, Singapore								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001296402300001	49	Article; Article		
J	Korkmaz Dayican, Damla; Ulker Eksi, Busra; Yigit, Safak; Utku Umut, Gulsena; Ozyurek, Burcin; Yilmaz, Hayrettin Emir; Akinci, Buket								Immediate Effects of High-Intensity Blood Flow Restriction Training on Muscle Performance and Muscle Soreness								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				96	1			213	222		10.1080/02701367.2024.2389902			JAN 2 2025	2025	Purpose: The aim was to investigate the immediate effects of high-intensity resistance training with blood flow restriction (HIRT-BFR) on rectus femoris (RF) muscle activity, reaction time, muscular performance, and delayed onset muscle soreness (DOMS) in healthy young adults. Methods: Twenty-four healthy young adults were randomized into the HIRT-BFR group or HIRT group. Both groups performed a single session of training with 80% of 1RM, 8 repetitions, 2 sets, and 3 minutes rest to RF muscle. The activity and reaction time of the dominant extremity RF muscle were evaluated by superficial electromyography (sEMG), muscular performance by single-leg squat test, and DOMS by the Visual Analog Scale. Results: Single-leg squat performance was significantly increased in HIRT-BFR (p = .001) and HIRT group (p = .04). Additionally, in HIRT group resting average (p = .03), resting maximal voluntary contraction % (p = .04), and relaxation minimum (p = .02) values of RF were significantly increased. DOMS level decreased significantly in HIRT-BFR (p < .001) and HIRT group (p = .019). The differences were similar in the groups for sEMG parameters, muscle performance, and DOMS level. Conclusion: We observed that HIRT-BFR and HIRT were similar in terms of muscle activation, reaction time, muscular performance of the RF, and DOMS level.		[Korkmaz Dayican, Damla; Ulker Eksi, Busra; Yigit, Safak; Utku Umut, Gulsena; Ozyurek, Burcin; Yilmaz, Hayrettin Emir; Akinci, Buket] Biruni Univ, Istanbul, Turkiye; [Korkmaz Dayican, Damla] Izmir Tinaztepe Univ, Izmir, Turkiye; [Ulker Eksi, Busra; Yigit, Safak] Istanbul Galata Univ, Istanbul, Turkiye; [Utku Umut, Gulsena] Halic Univ, Istanbul, Turkiye; [Ozyurek, Burcin] Yeditepe Univ Hosp, Atasehir, Turkiye; [Akinci, Buket] Biruni Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Physiotherapy & Rehabil English, Merkezefendi 75 Sk :1-13 M G, TR-34015 Istanbul, Turkiye								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001299452200001	57	Article; Article		
J	Mulvenna, Claire; Bloyce, Daniel; Twist, Craig; Thomson, Edward								'I code as much as I can because you never know what they might ask for'. The role of the coach in Performance Analysis: The view of the analyst								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	6			2345	2355		10.1177/17479541241270426			DEC 2024	2024	Performance Analysis (PA) is viewed as an integral feature of soccer; however, the processes underpinning such practice are often described as simple, linear procedures. This fails to acknowledge the dynamism of PA and given increased investment and employment of analysts in professional soccer, scrutiny of the current processes and duties associated with the role would seem timely. To this purpose, eight full-time analysts in the English Football League (EFL) and English National League (National League) participated in in-depth semi-structured interviews and transcripts were subjected to inductive reflective thematic analysis. The data analysis revealed two higher-order categories (Flying solo / Coach control) and four themes classified as lower-order (PA pragmatism / Identifying indicators / The reticent coach / Autocratic presentations). The findings of this study highlight that the responsibilities of the performance analyst range from acting on their own initiative to responding to requests and instructions from the coach. Subsequently, the responsibility for individual actions/activities related to PA is dependent on what aspects of analysis are to be used, who is the recipient of the data/video/presentation, when in the relationship between analyst and coach the activities are developed and when in the match-play process they are carried out.		[Mulvenna, Claire] Edge Hill Univ, Dept Sport & Phys Act, St Helens Rd, Ormskirk L39 4PQ, Lancs, England; [Bloyce, Daniel; Thomson, Edward] Univ Chester, Dept Sport & Exercise Sci, Chester, England; [Twist, Craig] Liverpool John Moores Univ, Res Inst Sport & Exercise Sci, Liverpool, England; [Mulvenna, Claire] Edge Hill Univ, Dept Sport & Phys Act, St Helens Rd, Ormskirk L39 4PQ, Lancs, England								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001291704900001	61	Article; Article		
J	Rockerbie, Duane W.								Does the Dual Representation System of Player Agents in International Football Benefit Players? An Economic Analysis								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				25	7			827	843		10.1177/15270025241266845			OCT 2024	2024	It is common in international football for the same agent to be paid both commission fees by the purchasing club for negotiating a player salary and a transfer fee. This dual representation creates a potential conflict of interest for the agent. The agent may not negotiate the highest salary for the player if a higher salary reduces the likelihood of a successful transfer by lowering the resources available for the transfer fee. We construct a gamble model of the transfer process and simulate the ex-ante agent commissions rates, expected player salary, transfer fee and club profit under the assumption of dual representation where the buying club pays all agent commissions. The assumption that the quality of the agent increases with the commission rate is essential to the model. Both the player and the club are better off when the club pays both commissions, however the agent is worse off.		[Rockerbie, Duane W.] Univ Lethbridge, Dept Econ, 4401 Univ Dr, Lethbridge, AB T1K 3M4, Canada; [Rockerbie, Duane W.] Univ Lethbridge, Dept Econ, 4401 Univ Dr, Lethbridge, AB T1K 3M4, Canada								1							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001291713600001	26	Article; Article		
J	Litwitz, Kevin; Memmert, Daniel; Wunderlich, Fabian								Rebounds in football: A systematic investigation of characteristics of goals scored after rebounded balls in English Premier League seasons 2012/2013 to 2018/2019								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	6			2476	2488		10.1177/17479541241269007			DEC 2024	2024	The literature on systematic aspects of goal scoring in football is rich, while little is known about random influences. This study focuses on an unsystematic element of goal scoring, namely rebounds, where a shot that bounces back from another player or the goal creates contested opportunities. Aspects including causes, match situation, player positioning and pitch zones were investigated for 554 rebound goals from seven seasons (2012/2013-2018/2019) of the English Premier League. Rebounds were predominantly caused by short distance and defensive errors, with goalkeepers playing a crucial role. Interestingly, the superiority of home teams and stronger teams to score significantly more goals than away teams and weaker teams can also be observed for rebound goals. Rebound goals are particularly prevalent in zones close to the goal, more prevalent after corners than non-rebound goals and associated with a high number of players in the penalty box. Overall, high similarities exist between rebound and non-rebound goals, while differences in match situations and spatial patterns suggest unique characteristics of rebound goals. These results are in line with the notion of systematicity and randomness concurrently contributing to success in football. More research appears useful to further disentangle the influence of both factors.		[Litwitz, Kevin; Memmert, Daniel; Wunderlich, Fabian] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Exercise Training & Sport Informat, Sportpark Mungersdorf 6, D-50933 Cologne, Germany; [Litwitz, Kevin] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Exercise Training & Sport Informat, Sportpark Mungersdorf 6, D-50933 Cologne, Germany								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001291710000001	50	Article; Article		
J	Meijen, Carla; Martin, Emily A.								'I don't want to be seen as period prone': An exploration of psychological strategies used across the menstrual cycle								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	6			2366	2375		10.1177/17479541241269274			DEC 2024	2024	Despite increased attention on the menstrual cycle in sport, research has focused largely on physiological changes, with relatively little consideration for fluctuations in psychological responses and coping strategies used in training and competition. This study's primary focus was to explore athlete's coping strategies throughout the menstrual cycle. Participants (n = 12) took part in a focus group or interview, facilitated by reflections from a diary and mapping exercise. Reflexive thematic analysis was used to analyse the data, generating three themes: Impact of symptoms, coping strategies, and contextual constraints. Participants had increased awareness of physiological over psychological fluctuations, and associated symptoms were considered to impact practicalities of sport and performance. Participants used avoidance, acceptance, and planning to cope with the impact of menstrual symptoms. Coping options were influenced by contextual constraints, including the level of competition and type of sport. The findings showed that some participants lacked menstrual health literacy, especially in relation to psychological fluctuations. Continued efforts to raise awareness around the psychological symptoms of the menstrual cycle and its impact on performance and well-being are needed, not only for the athlete but importantly for the coaching population too. Specifically, consideration of the sporting culture and the space in which athletes feel they can communicate their coping strategies could be pivotal in moving forwards to help develop 'period pro' athletes.		[Meijen, Carla; Martin, Emily A.] St Marys Univ, Fac Sport Technol & Hlth Sci, London, England; [Meijen, Carla] Univ Amsterdam, Psychol Res Inst, Programme Grp Work & Org Psychol, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Meijen, Carla] Univ Amsterdam, Psychol Res Inst, Programme Grp Work & Org Psychol, Amsterdam, Netherlands								9							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001291689600001	53	Article; Article		
J	Chiu, Weisheng; Kim, Han Soo; Oh, Young Suk; Lee, Ye Hoon								Unveiling the forces behind exercise intent in sports and fitness live streaming: a combination of symmetric and asymmetric modeling approaches								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				25	5			1219	1239		10.1108/IJSMS-01-2024-0015			SEP 25 2024	2024	PurposeThis study aims to answer the following research questions: (1) How do features of sports and fitness live streaming content influence individuals' viewing experiences? (2) How do these antecedents interact with each other to influence individuals' intentions to exercise in the context of sports and fitness live streaming?Design/methodology/approachWe employed both symmetric (PLS-SEM) and asymmetric (fsQCA) analyses using data from 886 participants. A mixed approach addresses the complex nature of the decision-making process among sports and fitness live streaming users.FindingsThe findings reveal that individuals' appraisal of their interactions with sports and fitness streamers (i.e. instant feedback, interactivity) significantly affects their perceptions of telepresence, entertainment, and flow. These, in turn, positively influence their intention to exercise in live sports and fitness streaming sessions. The study also uncovers various combinations of causal conditions leading to exercise intention, a detail overlooked by the PLS-SEM method alone.Originality/valueThis research contributes to the literature on cognitive appraisal theory, particularly in the context of sports and fitness live streaming, by integrating symmetric and asymmetric analyses. Practically, strategic implications are provided for practitioners in sports and fitness industry.		[Chiu, Weisheng] Hong Kong Metropolitan Univ, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [Kim, Han Soo] Univ North Florida, Sch Counseling & Sport Management, Dept Leadership, Jacksonville, FL 32224 USA; [Oh, Young Suk] Hong Kong Metropolitan Univ, Lee Shau Kee Sch Business & Adm, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [Lee, Ye Hoon] Hankuk Univ Foreign Studies, Div Int Sport & Leisure Studies, Yongin Campus, Yongin, South Korea; [Kim, Han Soo] Univ North Florida, Sch Counseling & Sport Management, Dept Leadership, Jacksonville, FL 32224 USA								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001288368400001	88	Article; Article		
J	Luders, Jack; Gleadhill, Sam; Garrett, Joel; Bennett, Hunter								Enhancing athletic performance with complex contrast training: A Delphi study of elite strength and conditioning coaches								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	6			2321	2333		10.1177/17479541241272256			DEC 2024	2024	This Delphi study identifies how elite strength and conditioning coaches prescribe complex contrast training to team sport athletes. Thirty-eight elite strength and conditioning coaches with experience working in high performance settings participated in a three-round survey. Round one was used to collect open-ended responses regarding the programming of complex contrast training. Responses were formulated into statements for rounds two and three, where participants rated their level of agreement using a 9-point Likert scale (agreement threshold >= 80%). In round one, 139 statements were formulated. Twenty-seven statements reached consensus in round two, and four more in round three. Based upon consensus, complex contrast training is best used during the season and dedicated power blocks. It was recommended that strength and power exercises within complex contrast training pairings be performed for 3-4 sets of 3-4 repetitions. Loading of 85-90% of one repetition maximum (1RM) was recommended for strength exercises, with similar to two repetitions in reserve, and BW-30% 1RM for power exercises, with three minutes of rest between contrast sets. Upper body pressing, upper body throwing, lower body squatting and hinging, and lower body jumping and bounding exercises were recommended. Coaches reported using complex contrast training to enhance power-focused training, and because it is more time efficient. Complex contrast training may be a time efficient method of improving athletic performance when training time is limited. Results from this study can guide the development of complex contrast training programs for team-sport athletes, and provides valuable insight into how elite coaches enhance performance.		[Luders, Jack; Gleadhill, Sam; Bennett, Hunter] Univ SouthAustralia, Sch Allied Hlth & Human Performance, Adelaide, Australia; [Luders, Jack; Gleadhill, Sam; Bennett, Hunter] Univ South Australia, Alliance Res Exercise Nutr & Act, Adelaide, Australia; [Gleadhill, Sam] Univ South Australia, UniSA Online, Adelaide, Australia; [Garrett, Joel] Griffith Univ, Sch Hlth Sci & Social Work, Southport, Qld, Australia; [Bennett, Hunter] Univ South Australia, Allied Hlth & Human Performance, Adelaide, SA, Australia								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001289658100001	44	Article; Article		
J	Barraclough, Sam; Till, Kevin; Kerr, Adam; Emmonds, Stacey								Exploring the relationships between potential, performance, and athleticism in elite youth soccer players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	6			2424	2437		10.1177/17479541241270192			DEC 2024	2024	Talent identification of young soccer players is a significant consideration for elite youth soccer organisations, with decisions on players often being made based on the subjective expert opinion of scouts and coaches. Previous research has suggested that scouts and coaches purportedly consider a multitude of factors before arriving at their decisions. However, to date, limited research exists regarding how coaches evaluate player potential within such organisations and how the consideration of further data may influence such evaluations of a player's future potential. Therefore, the aim of this study was to present ratings of perceived potential in an elite youth soccer academy and explore the relationships between a player's perceived potential, athleticism, and perceived level of current match performance. Using 181 player observations, findings demonstrated that ratings of players' perceived potential decreased within older age groups and were the lowest in the senior academy age group (U18). Furthermore, a mixed effects ordinal regression model suggested that coaches' perceptions of a player's future potential demonstrated strong relationships with current match performance and athleticism. Increases in a player's mean match rating significantly increased the odds of them being perceived to have higher potential and increases in athleticism also demonstrated a positive relationship with increased perceptions of potential. The findings have implications for youth soccer organisations, providing insight into the distribution of ratings of potential within an elite youth soccer academy, and demonstrating that further data (match performance and athleticism) is related to, and may influence, coaches' perceptions of player potential.		[Barraclough, Sam] Manchester Metropolitan Univ, Inst Sport, Dept Sport & Exercise Sci, 99 Oxford Rd, Manchester M1 7EL, England; [Barraclough, Sam; Kerr, Adam] Leeds United FC, Acad Phys Dev, Walton Rd,ThorpArch, Leeds, England; [Barraclough, Sam; Till, Kevin; Emmonds, Stacey] Leeds Beckett Univ, Carnegie Sch Sport, Leeds, England; [Till, Kevin] Leeds Rhinos RLFC, Bridge Rd, Leeds, England; [Barraclough, Sam] Manchester Metropolitan Univ, Inst Sport, Dept Sport & Exercise Sci, 99 Oxford Rd, Manchester M1 7EL, England								13							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001289671600001	65	Article; Article		
J	Zhang, Sichao; Sado, Natsuki; Fujii, Norihisa								Adjustment of segmental rotations to achieve both racket speed and accuracy at various impact heights during a two-handed backhand stroke								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	7			1990	2005		10.1080/14763141.2024.2388562			JUL 3 2025	2025	This study investigated the influence of impact height and competitive level on racket speed and stroke accuracy by analysing segmental angular kinematics under a random ball condition. High- (HQ, n = 7) and low-quality (LQ, n = 7) groups were determined by k-means clustering of the ratio of ball landing in the target (accuracy) and racket speed decrease. HQ showed higher accuracy (48.3% vs. 32.4%), less speed decrease at lower impact heights (-4.4% vs. -10.3%) and better competitive level ranking [median (1st-3rd quartiles); 4 (2-7)] than LQ [10 (8-13)]. HQ produced greater racket speed (24.4 vs. 21.6 m/s), especially with a notable horizontal velocity (23.8 vs. 20.8 m/s) of the racket at lower impact height, which was attributed to the central role of greater angular velocity of pelvis and thorax in the hitting direction. Both groups showed similar adjustment mechanisms that due to the decrease in angular velocity of pelvis, players increased the relative rotation angle between pelvis and thorax to maintain angular velocity of thorax when transitioning from low to high impact heights. Our findings suggest that players should emphasise the coordination between pelvic and thoracic rotations according to impact heights to maintain racket speed while controlling ball landing position.		[Zhang, Sichao] Univ Tsukuba, Grad Sch Comprehens Human Sci, Doctoral Program Phys Educ Hlth & Sport Sci, Tsukuba, Japan; [Sado, Natsuki; Fujii, Norihisa] Univ Tsukuba, Inst Hlth & Sport Sci, Tsukuba, Japan; [Fujii, Norihisa] Univ Tsukuba, Inst Hlth & Sport Sci, Tsukuba, Japan								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001293863000001	48	Article; Article		
J	Leeds, Michael A.; Leeds, Eva Marikova								"And Yet...": Title IX Fifty Years on An Introduction								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				25	8			895	903		10.1177/15270025241269875			DEC 2024	2024	The half-century since Title IX was enacted has seen an explosion of opportunities for women and girls. While Title IX has opened doors in a wide array of areas, it will always be associated primarily with women's sports. The effect on women's sports has indeed been profound. Participation and funding has ballooned at all levels, from grade school to the professional ranks. Still, much remains to be done, as participation, attitudes, and support of girls' and women's sports continue to lag behind those of boys and men. The articles in this volume examine the growth of a variety of women's sports in the wake of Title IX. Collectively, they show how much has been achieved and how much remains to be done.		[Leeds, Michael A.] Temple Univ, Dept Econ, Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA; [Leeds, Eva Marikova] Moravian Univ, Sch Business & Econ, Bethlehem, PA USA; [Leeds, Michael A.] Temple Univ, Dept Econ, Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA								3							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001286093100001	26	Article; Article		
J	Settlage, Daniel M.; Settlage, Madison E.								Using Orthodromic Distance to Determine Homefield Advantage in Professional Bass Fishing Tournaments								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				25	7			844	865		10.1177/15270025241268728			OCT 2024	2024	The home team is widely viewed as having an advantage in most team sports. Individual sports are less inclined to have homefield advantage, since they are contested on neutral sites with contestants from a wide variety of locales. Bass fishing differs from most individual sports as the venue fished is governed by local biological and climatological variation. Thus, there may be a homefield advantage that accrues to anglers living close to the venue where the tournament is held. In this paper we examine angler performance in the two premier bass fishing tournaments in the U.S.: the Bassmaster Elite Series and Major League Fishing's Bass Pro Tour. We find that angler performance in both tournaments is related to characteristics that measure experience, aptitude, and past success. In addition, we find evidence that angler performance suffers as distance to the lake increases, and this result holds after controlling for other angler characteristics.		[Settlage, Daniel M.] Univ Arkansas, Coll Business & Ind, Econ, Ft Smith, AR 72913 USA; [Settlage, Madison E.] Univ Arkansas, Walton Coll Business, Fayetteville, AR USA; [Settlage, Daniel M.] Univ Arkansas, Ft Smith, AR 72913 USA								0							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001285914000001	54	Article; Article		
J	Lemus, Sergio A.; Volz, Mallory; Blasdale, Avery; Beron-Vera, Francisco; Chen, Cheng-Bang; Mann, Bryan J.; Travascio, Francesco								The accuracy of measuring velocity during weightlifting movements with five velocity-based training devices								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	6			2501	2512		10.1177/17479541241266248			DEC 2024	2024	The use of weightlifting exercises is prevalent in competitive and recreational environments, as well as sport-specific training. Traditionally, weightlifting coaches prescribe specific training loads based on an individual's maximal ability. Velocity-based training offers an alternative method that promises to quantify strength based on velocity and provides information that increases competitiveness through real-time feedback. Various velocity measurement devices are available on the market. Their precision is critical for the adequate implementation of velocity-based training. The aim of the present study was to compare the concentric peak velocity measurements of five of these devices during two weightlifting movements, the snatch and clean, to data collected with a 12-camera motion capture system, which was considered as gold standard. It was hypothesized that the velocity measurement devices used in this study would vary in accuracy based on their retail prices. Velocity readings associated with light and moderate (40% and 70% of one-repetition max) loads were measured for both the snatch and clean performed by 12 competitive weightlifters. A least products regression was used to assess validity by comparing five devices against a criterion measure. A general linear model showed statistical differences in the velocities measured with these five devices (p < 0.001). Specifically, the GymAware RS linear position transducer was the most accurate device, demonstrating no fixed or proportional bias when used to quantify velocity during the snatch and clean. The remaining four devices significantly underestimated peak velocity, which would directly impact the daily planning of lifters' training. Practitioners must consider the error and bias of each device before implementing velocity-based training.		[Lemus, Sergio A.; Blasdale, Avery; Beron-Vera, Francisco; Travascio, Francesco] Univ Miami, Dept Mech & Aerosp Engn, Coral Gables, FL USA; [Volz, Mallory] Univ Miami, Dept Biomed Engn, Coral Gables, FL USA; [Chen, Cheng-Bang] Univ Miami, Dept Ind Engn, Coral Gables, FL USA; [Mann, Bryan J.] Texas A&M Univ, Dept Kinesiol & Sport Management, College Stn, TX USA; [Travascio, Francesco] Univ Miami, Dept Orthopaed, Miami, FL USA; [Travascio, Francesco] Mt Sinai Med Ctr, Max Biedermann Inst Biomech, Miami Beach, FL USA; [Travascio, Francesco] Univ Miami, Coll Engn, 1251 Mem Dr,MEB 223, Coral Gables, FL 33146 USA								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001283038000001	69	Article; Article		
J	Peterson, Keegan T.; Bopp, Melissa								Where's the Joy in That? Sexual Minority College Students Report Lower Physical Activity Engagement and Enjoyment Compared to Heterosexual Students								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				96	1			183	191		10.1080/02701367.2024.2383944			JAN 2 2025	2025	Sexual minority (e.g. non-heterosexual) individuals are at greater risk for negative health outcomes, often linked to inadequate physical activity (PA). The purpose of this study was to assess PA levels and PA enjoyment among college students, by sexual orientation. Data were collected from a volunteer sample of college students enrolled in general health and wellness courses offered at a large, Northeastern U.S. university via an online survey. Participants self-reported demographic information, PA levels using the Global Physical Activity Questionnaire (GPAQ), and PA enjoyment using a 7-item Physical Activity Enjoyment scale (PACES). Among participants (n = 1471), independent sample t-tests showed that sexual minority (SM) students reported significantly lower mean MET-mins/week of MPA (M-Heterosexual= 568.09 +/- 488.12 vs. M-Sexual minority = 469.95 +/- 471.51; p = .006) and VPA (M-Heterosexual= 1089.54 +/- 1110.64 vs. M-Sexual Minority = 628.93 +/- 942.78; p < .001), ST days/week (M-Heterosexual= 1.93 +/- 1.90 vs. M-Sexual Minority = 1.00 +/- 1.60; p < .001), and reported lower total PACES score (M-Heterosexual= 7.80 +/- 1.92 vs. M-Sexual Minority = 6.87 +/- 2.14; p < .001) compared to heterosexual students. Bootstrap mediation analyses with 5000 samples revealed that PACES has direct and indirect mediation effects on the association between sexual orientation status and MET-mins/week of MPA and VPA, and ST days/week. The current findings provide evidence of the underlying mechanisms linked to the physical activity disparities experienced by SM college students compared to heterosexual students. Additionally, PACES can serve as a facilitator to promote PA engagement among SM students. These findings can inform future intervention work to target PA enjoyment for meaningful behavior change.		[Peterson, Keegan T.; Bopp, Melissa] Penn State Univ, Dept Kinesiol, 23C Recreat Bldg, University Pk, PA 16802 USA; [Peterson, Keegan T.] Penn State Univ, Dept Kinesiol, 23C Recreat Bldg, University Pk, PA 16802 USA								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001280852900001	49	Article; Article		
J	Park, Min Jin; Lee, J. Lucy								Understanding motives and consumption behavior of sports NFT holders and non-holders: a case study of Kbollect								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				26	2			325	342		10.1108/IJSMS-03-2023-0056			APR 22 2025	2025	PurposeThe purposes of the paper were (1) to examine the primary motives for owning sports NFTs and (2) to investigate their influence on fan consumption behavior toward sports teams for NFT-holders and non-holders and to examine whether any difference between NFT-holders and non-holders existed.Design/methodology/approachA qualitative case study approach of both individual and focus group interviews was used to identify major motives for the ownership of NFTs for sports NFT-holders and non-holders of Kbollect in particular. Data were analyzed through a thematic content analysis utilizing nCoder.FindingsFive common motives - financial rewards, exclusivity, hedonic motivation, sense of belonging and effort expectancy - were identified. For both sport NFT-holders and non-holders, financial rewards were the most influential motive. Whether sports fans own sports NFTs or not, they all indicated that ownership of sports NFTs would reinforce their consumption behavior.Research limitations/implicationsThe findings suggest to scholars and practitioners that sports NFTs primarily serve as a marketing tool, rather than constituting a viable means of investment. This observation holds true contingent upon two conditions: first, the reduction of technological barriers for non-sports NFT holders in acquiring sports NFTs; second, the provision of more palpable and attainable advantages for sport NFT-holders. Additionally, for existing NFT-holders, providing strategies to ensure a sense of belonging to the NFTs community would be beneficial.Originality/valueThe authors attempted to provide the most influential motives for sport NFT-holders and non-holders of sports NFTs. It was anticipated that these motives to influence fan behavior towards the sports team, possibly leading to increased engagement like higher game viewership, greater event attendance and a greater likelihood of buying team merchandise.		[Park, Min Jin; Lee, J. Lucy] Seoul Natl Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Seoul, South Korea; [Lee, J. Lucy] Seoul Natl Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Seoul, South Korea								15							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001275587100001	52	Article; Article		
J	Mikulik, Lukas; Mala, Jitka; Jajkova, Kristina; Opala-Berdzik, Agnieszka								Influence of regularly repeated asymmetric load on the locomotor system in sweep rowers								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	12			3502	3513		10.1080/14763141.2024.2382807			DEC 1 2024	2024	This study aims to objectively evaluate the trunk posture of sweep rowers (bow-side rowers/stroke-side rowers) and compare the results with scull rowers and non-rowing controls. Sixty-four healthy individuals divided into four groups were assessed using a DIERS formetric III 4D device that is based on a method of moir & eacute; topography. There were seven parameters observed in an assessment of standing posture, and eight parameters were studied for an evaluation of posture during the gait cycle. In comparison with non-rowing controls and scull rowers, stroke-side rowers showed significantly greater rotational deviation of the trunk at the L3 vertebra level and a greater magnitude of scoliosis angle during walking throughout the single support phase on the left leg (p < 0.05). Stroke-side rowers also demonstrated greater magnitude of scoliosis angle than non-rowing controls in double support phase in the transition from the left to the right leg (p < 0.05). Moreover, as opposed to non-rowing controls, stroke-side rowers and scull rowers showed significantly greater values of coronal imbalance (p < 0.05). Bow-side rowers differed from non-rowing controls and scull rowers in a significantly greater magnitude of scoliosis angle throughout the single support phase on the left leg (p < 0.05). Trial registration number: clinicaltrials.gov (identifier: NCT05685563).		[Mikulik, Lukas; Mala, Jitka] Charles Univ Prague, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Prague, Czech Republic; [Jajkova, Kristina] Rehamil SRO, Physiotherapy, Milovice, Czech Republic; [Opala-Berdzik, Agnieszka] Akad Wychowan Fizycznego, Jergo Kukuczki Katowicach, Katowice, Poland; [Mala, Jitka] Charles Univ Prague, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Prague, Czech Republic								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001316911000001	18	Article; Article		
J	Abran, Guillaume; Berraz, Audrey; Dardenne, Nadia; Gramage, Kevin; Bornheim, Stephen; Delvaux, Francois; Croisier, Jean-Louis; Schwartz, Cedric								A comparison of foot and ankle biomechanics during running drills and distance running								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	7			1974	1989		10.1080/14763141.2024.2382804			JUL 3 2025	2025	The aim of this study was to compare the foot-ankle joint mechanics of running drills and running. Seventeen long-distance runners performed five popular running drills (A-skip, B-skip, Bounding, Heel flicks, Straight leg running) and a run at 3.88 m/s. Kinematics, kinetics and power values were calculated for the ankle, midtarsal (MT) and metatarsophalangeal (MP) joints. Electromyographic activity was recorded for the soleus, gastrocnemius medialis, lateralis and abductor hallucis muscle. The A-skip, the B-skip and the Heel flicks induced a smaller ankle (p < 0.001, & eng;(2) = 0.41), MT (p < 0.001, & eng;(2) = 0.43) and MP (p < 0.001, & eng;(2) = 0.47) dorsiflexion peak than running. No difference was found between the running drills and running for ankle, MT and MP moment. The Bounding induces a higher positive ankle power than running (diff: 5.5 +/- 7.5 J/kg, p = 0.014, d = 1.05). The A-skip (diff: 2.8 +/- 2.9 J/kg, p < 0.001, d = 1.5) and the B-skip (diff: 2.7 +/- 2.1 J/kg, p < 0.001, d = 1.4) induce a smaller MT positive power than running. This study offers an analysis of the mechanical behaviour of the foot-ankle complex to help track and field coaches select their running drills in an evidence-based manner.		[Abran, Guillaume; Gramage, Kevin; Delvaux, Francois; Croisier, Jean-Louis; Schwartz, Cedric] LAM Mot Lab, Liege, Belgium; [Abran, Guillaume; Gramage, Kevin; Bornheim, Stephen; Delvaux, Francois; Croisier, Jean-Louis] Univ Liege, Dept Phys Act & Rehabil Sci, Liege, Belgium; [Berraz, Audrey] Univ Technol Compiegne UTC, Alliance Sorbonne Univ, Compiegne, France; [Dardenne, Nadia] Univ Liege, Univ & Hosp Biostat Ctr B STAT, Liege, Belgium; [Abran, Guillaume] LAM Mot Lab, Liege, Belgium; [Abran, Guillaume] Univ Liege, Dept Phys Act & Rehabil Sci, Liege, Belgium								1							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001278339500001	39	Article; Article		
J	Garcia-Angulo, Francisco Javier; Garcia-Angulo, Antonio; Gimenez-Egido, Jose Maria; Ortega-Toro, Enrique								Influence of the constraints associated with the numerical game situations on the technical-tactical actions of U-11 football players in Spain								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	6			2521	2529		10.1177/17479541241263722			DEC 2024	2024	The aim of the present study was to analyse the influence of the constraints led approach (CLA) systems, such as the playing space, the number of players and the numerical game situations (superiority, equality and numerical inferiority) on the technical-tactical actions of U-11 players in small-sided games (SSGs). A case study was developed where two of the CLA constraint systems were applied on three SSG where the dimensions of the game space were modified (SSG1: 160 m2 ; SSG2 and SSG3: 155 m2 ) and the numerical game situation against the opposing team (SSG1: equality; SSG2 and SSG3: superiority/inferiority). The study sample consisted of U-11 players (n = 8) competing at federated level in Spain (10.25 +/- 0.45 years; 2.21 +/- 0.61 years of experience). The results of this study show an very strong degree of association between the game modalities and the way of obtaining the ball (2Ln(BFp10) = 10.06) and a strong association between the game modalities and the zone of origin of the ball (2 Ln(BFp10) = 6.02). It should be noted that a positive association was found between games modes and ball height in obtaining the ball (2Ln(BFp10) = 4.06); type of conduction (2Ln(BFp10) = 5.88); technical action (2Ln(BFp10)= 2.32) and efficiency (2Ln(BFp10) = 4.04). These data can help coaches to optimize the training process of young players by modifying the training tasks based on the constraint systems proposed in this study.		[Garcia-Angulo, Francisco Javier; Garcia-Angulo, Antonio; Gimenez-Egido, Jose Maria; Ortega-Toro, Enrique] Univ Murcia, Fac Sport Sci, Murcia, Spain; [Garcia-Angulo, Francisco Javier; Gimenez-Egido, Jose Maria; Ortega-Toro, Enrique] Sports Performance Anal Assoc SPAA, Santiago de la Ribera, Spain; [Garcia-Angulo, Antonio] Murcia Football Federat FFRM, Murcia, Spain; [Gimenez-Egido, Jose Maria] Univ Alicante, Fac Educ, Alicante, Spain; [Garcia-Angulo, Antonio] Fac Ciencias Deporte, C-Argentina S-N,Campus San Javier, San Javier 30720, Murcia, Spain								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001278035400001	52	Article; Article		
J	Esagoff, Aaron I.; Gifford, Mia K.; Narapareddy, Bharat R.; Sair, Haris I.; Luna, Licia P.; Raj, Divyaansh; Shan, Guogen; Peters, Matthew; Bernick, Charles								Prior football or rugby exposure and white matter signal abnormalities in professional male mixed martial arts fighters								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				53	1			42	46		10.1080/00913847.2024.2382085			JAN 2 2025	2025	Background: White matter signal abnormalities have been associated with traumatic brain injury (TBI) and repetitive head impacts (RHI) in contact sports (e.g. American football, rugby). However, previous studies of mixed martial arts (MMA) fighters from the Professional Fighters Brain Health Study have not found greater white matter signal abnormalities in fighters versus controls. Objective: This study aims to explore the varying white matter effects of football/rugby and MMA by analyzing how football/rugby history in mixed martial arts fighters may relate to white matter signal abnormalities, helping to further our understanding of sport-specific brain health risks. Methods: Baseline visits for 90 active, professional, male mixed martial arts fighters and 27 unexposed male controls were cross-sectionally analyzed. Wilcoxon and Kruskal-Wallis tests compared demographics and white matter signal abnormalities, and multivariable regression models examined the associations between football/rugby history and white matter signal abnormality burden in fighters, adjusting for age, education, race, fights, MRI scanner, and supratentorial volume. Results: 37/90 fighters had football/rugby history (mean: 4 years; range: 1-12 years). White matter signal abnormalities were significantly greater in fighters with football/rugby history compared to fighters without football/rugby history (Wilcoxon, p = 0.0190). Football/rugby history was significantly associated with white matter signal abnormality burden >75(th) percentile (OR: 12, CI: 3.3-61, p < 0.001) and >50th percentile (OR: 3.2, CI: 1.2-9.4, p = 0.024) in fighters. Years of football/rugby were also significantly associated with white matter signal abnormalities. Conclusion: Our findings expand on previous literature by demonstrating a significant relationship between white matter signal abnormalities (WMSAs) and football/rugby history but not MMA. Furthermore, our study suggests an added risk for WMSAs in MMA fighters with a history of football/rugby. Future research should further evaluate WMSAs in contact sports, helping to inform athletes, regulatory bodies, and healthcare providers of the potential brain health risks of contact sports.		[Esagoff, Aaron I.; Gifford, Mia K.; Raj, Divyaansh; Peters, Matthew] Johns Hopkins Univ, Sch Med, 5300 Alpha Commons Dr, Baltimore, MD 21224 USA; [Narapareddy, Bharat R.] Hartford Hosp, Inst Living, Hartford, CT USA; [Sair, Haris I.; Luna, Licia P.] Johns Hopkins Univ, Sch Med, Dept Radiol & Radiol Sci Neuroradiol, Baltimore, MD 21224 USA; [Shan, Guogen] Univ Florida, Coll Publ Hlth & Hlth Profess, Gainesville, FL USA; [Shan, Guogen] Univ Florida, Coll Med, Gainesville, FL USA; [Bernick, Charles] Cleveland Clin, Lou Ruvo Ctr Brain Hlth, Las Vegas, NV USA; [Esagoff, Aaron I.] Johns Hopkins Univ, Sch Med, 5300 Alpha Commons Dr, Baltimore, MD 21224 USA								1							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001274188900001	17	Article; Article		
J	Bransen, Lotte; Davis, Jesse								A data-driven analysis of the technical and tactical evolution of elite women's football								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	6			2449	2459		10.1177/17479541241257809			DEC 2024	2024	Currently, most research into the evolution of player performance in women's football has focused on physical performance. In contrast, we lack data-driven research into the technical and tactical developments of the women's game. This paper aims to fill this research gap by analysing an extensive longitudinal dataset containing event data for 3510 matches over eight years in the game's top leagues. It uses analytics techniques to assess changes in technical skills and tactical behaviours in the women's game. Tactically, we observe longer possession sequences and fewer long-distance shots. Technically, we observe that players are completing more difficult and valuable passes at a higher rate, and putting a higher percentage of shots on target, with a particular emphasis on aiming for the corners of the goal. These findings could aid football practitioners to account for the developments of the game.		[Bransen, Lotte; Davis, Jesse] Katholieke Univ Leuven, Dept Comp Sci, Leuven, Belgium; [Bransen, Lotte; Davis, Jesse] Katholieke Univ Leuven, Leuven AI, Leuven, Belgium; [Bransen, Lotte] Katholieke Univ Leuven, Dept Comp Sci, Leuven, Belgium; [Bransen, Lotte] Katholieke Univ Leuven, Leuven AI, Leuven, Belgium								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001275831500001	48	Article; Article		
J	Trail, Galen; Kim, Ari; Bang, Hyejin; Braunstein-Minkove, Jessica R.								Ethics in quantitative sport management research: the impact of AI								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				25	5			1147	1162		10.1108/IJSMS-05-2024-0111			SEP 25 2024	2024	PurposeDespite the use of plagiarism-checking software and current ethical guidelines in sport management journals, raising awareness of ethical concerns and potential risks of artificial intelligence (AI) applications is necessary. This paper discusses how AI affects ethical research and publishing and provides guidelines for sport management scholars to ensure quality and integrity of their research.Design/methodology/approachA comprehensive review and critical analysis of literature was performed to evaluate research ethics, potential risks, and guiding principles for the use of AI in research.FindingsEthical research guidelines for quantitative sport management research were proposed. The guidelines encompass seven principles for the proper use of AI and ethical conduct specific to the research methods, data analysis, and results, which would be challenging for AI to accurately replicate.Originality/valueThis study provides an original contribution to the field of sport management because numerous questions concerning ethics and AI have not been addressed until now. The guidelines are suitable for use by sport management scholars, concerning the accuracy, validity, and quality of research while mitigating ethical risks in AI-generated content.		[Trail, Galen] Seattle Univ, Dept Mkt, Seattle, WA 98122 USA; [Kim, Ari] Calif State Univ San Bernardino, Dept Mkt, San Bernardino, CA USA; [Bang, Hyejin] Florida Int Univ, Miami, FL USA; [Braunstein-Minkove, Jessica R.] Towson Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Towson, MD USA; [Trail, Galen] Seattle Univ, Dept Mkt, Seattle, WA 98122 USA								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001271962100001	76	Article; Article		
J	Watson, Neil; Hendricks, Sharief; Weaving, Dan; Dalton-Barron, Nicholas; Jones, Ben; Stewart, Theodor; Durbach, Ian								Player Activity and Load Profiling with Hidden Markov Models: A Novel Application in Rugby League								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				96	1			34	52		10.1080/02701367.2024.2362253			JAN 2 2025	2025	Player movement in rugby league is complex, being spatiotemporal and multifaceted. Modeling this complexity to provide robust measures of player activity and load has proved difficult, with important aspects of player movement yet to be considered. These include the influence of time-varying covariates on player activity and the combination of different dimensions of player movement. Few studies have simultaneously categorized player activity into different activity states and investigated factors influencing the transition between states, or compared player activity and load profiles between matches and training. This study applied hidden Markov models (HMMs)-a data-driven, multivariate approach-to rugby league training and match GPS data to i) demonstrate how HMMs can combine multiple variables in a data-driven way to effectively categorize player movement states, ii) investigate the influence of two time-varying covariates, score difference and elapsed match time on player activity states, and iii) compare player activity and load profiles within and between training and match modalities. HMMs were fitted to player GPS, accelerometer and heart rate data of one English Super League team across 60 training sessions and 35 matches. Distinct activity states were detected for both matches and training, with transitions between states in matches influenced by score difference and elapsed time and clear differences in activity and load profiles between training and matches. HMMs can model the complexity of player movement to effectively profile player activity and load in rugby league and have the potential to facilitate new research across several sports. We successfully derived player activity and load profiles in both training and match contexts in a data-driven and multivariate way using hidden Markov models.HMMs can be used to investigate the probability of changing between activity states as a function of time-varying covariates, augmenting current activity profiling practice.We discovered key differences between the activity and load profiles between training and matches in rugby league. In particular, a very directed high-speed running state in training that is seldom accessed by players in matches.We demonstrated how visualizing the output of HMMs can provide decision support by facilitating comparisons of activity and load profiles within and between players in matches and training.We posit that the methodology detailed in this paper can become a standardized approach to player activity and load profiling based on player movement data across multiple sports because it is flexible, data-driven, multivariate and statistically robust.		[Watson, Neil; Hendricks, Sharief; Jones, Ben; Stewart, Theodor; Durbach, Ian] Univ Cape Town, Dept Stat Sci, ZA-7700 Cape Town, South Africa; [Hendricks, Sharief; Weaving, Dan; Dalton-Barron, Nicholas; Jones, Ben] Leeds Beckett Univ, Leeds, England; [Weaving, Dan] Univ Newcastle, Newcastle, Australia; [Weaving, Dan] Edge Hill Univ, Ormskirk, England; [Dalton-Barron, Nicholas; Jones, Ben] Rugby Football Union, Twickenham, England; [Jones, Ben] Premiership Rugby, Twickenham, England; [Jones, Ben] Australian Catholic Univ, Banyo, Australia; [Durbach, Ian] Univ St Andrews, St Andrews, Scotland; [Watson, Neil] Univ Cape Town, Dept Stat Sci, ZA-7700 Cape Town, South Africa								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001274850900001	39	Article; Article		
J	Heijboer, Willem M. P.; Thijs, Karin M.; Weir, Adam; Serner, Andreas; Tol, Johannes L.; Goedhart, Edwin A.; Groot, Floor P.								Normal hip strength and range of motion values in youth and adult female national football teams: Data from 504 assessments								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				69				51	58		10.1016/j.ptsp.2024.06.005			SEP 2024	2024	Objectives: To determine normal hip adduction- and abduction strength and range of motion (ROM) values for youth and adult female national team football players, and evaluate if increasing age, playing position and leg dominance were associated with these strength and ROM values. Design: Cohort study. Setting: National football center. Participants: 344 unique asymptomatic female football players. Main outcome measures: Hip internal/external rotation (degrees), Bent Knee Fall Out test (cm), hip adduction/abduction strength(N) and ratio, and normalised hip adduction/abduction torque (Nm/kg). Results: A total of 504 assessments were performed. A total of 107 players underwent two (n = 67), three (n = 27) or four (n = 13) assessments. Mean peak hip adduction strength was 39% greater in 20 + Y old players 170 (+/- 53 N) than in 13Y old players 122 (+/- 28 N). Normalised hip adduction torque was 9% greater: 2.5 (+/- 0.8Nm/kg) versus 2.3 (+/- 0.5Nm/kg). A positive association between age and all strength measurements was found, while a negative association between age and hip external rotation and total hip rotation was found. No clinically relevant differences were found for the associations between playing position, leg dominance and hip strengthand ROM values. Conclusion: Normal values for hip strength and range of motion in youth and adult female national football players are presented that can be used as clinical reference values.		[Heijboer, Willem M. P.; Tol, Johannes L.] Aspetar Orthopaed & Sports Med Hosp, Doha, Qatar; [Heijboer, Willem M. P.; Tol, Johannes L.] Amsterdam UMC locat Univ Amsterdam, Acad Ctr Evidence Based Med, Amsterdam IOC Ctr ACHSS, Dept Orthoped Surg & Sports Med, Meibergdreef 9, NL-1105AZ Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Heijboer, Willem M. P.; Tol, Johannes L.] Amsterdam Movement Sci, Sports, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Thijs, Karin M.; Goedhart, Edwin A.; Groot, Floor P.] Royal Netherlands Football Assoc KNVB, Football Med Ctr, FIFA Med Ctr Excellence, Zeist, Netherlands; [Thijs, Karin M.] Univ Utrecht, Univ Med Ctr Utrecht, Brain Ctr, Dept Rehabil Phys Therapy Sci & Sport, Utrecht, Netherlands; [Weir, Adam] Erasmus MC Univ Med Ctr, Dept Orthopaed & Sports Med, Rotterdam, Netherlands; [Weir, Adam; Groot, Floor P.] Sports Med & Exercise Clin Haarlem Sport & Beweegk, Haarlem, Netherlands; [Serner, Andreas] Federat Internatl Football Assoc, FIFA Med, Zurich, Switzerland; [Heijboer, Willem M. P.] Amsterdam UMC locat Univ Amsterdam, Acad Ctr Evidence Based Med, Amsterdam IOC Ctr ACHSS, Dept Orthoped Surg & Sports Med, Meibergdreef 9, NL-1105AZ Amsterdam, Netherlands								5							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001275872700001	40	Article; Article		
J	Isaji, Yuichi; Uchino, Shota; Inada, Ryuta; Saito, Hiroki								Effectiveness of psychological intervention following anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction: A systematic review and meta-analysis								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				69				40	50		10.1016/j.ptsp.2024.07.003			SEP 2024	2024	Objective: To determine the effectiveness of psychological interventions in postoperative anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction (ACLR) compared to standard rehabilitation. Methods: The databases searched were PubMed, MEDLINE, Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials, PEDro, Cumulative Index to Nursing & Allied Health Literature, and EMBASE were searched from each database inception to May 2023 for published studies. The methodological quality was assessed with the Cochrane Risk of Bias Assessment (RoB 2.0) tool. The evidence quality was evaluated using the Grading of Recommendations, Assessment, Development, and Evaluation approach. Results: Six papers were included in the meta-analysis. Psychological intervention significantly improved Tampa Scale for Kinesiophobia at 3 months (Standard Mean Difference [SMD], -0.51. 95% Confidence Interval [CI], -0.85 to -0.17) and pain (Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score for Pain, Numeric Rating Scale, Visual Analog Scale) at 3 months (SMD, -0.92. 95%CI, -1.69 to -0.15) and at 6 months following ACLR (MD, -1.25. 95%CI, -1.82 to -0.68) when compared with the standard rehabilitation, according to very low-quality data. Self-efficacy and knee strength did not show significant differences. Conclusion: Very low-quality evidence suggests that psychological intervention following ACLR yields better short-term outcomes compared to standard rehabilitation, with uncertainty about its clinically significant benefits over standard rehabilitation.		[Isaji, Yuichi] Bukkyo Univ, Sch Hlth Sci, Dept Phys Therapy, Kyoto, Japan; [Uchino, Shota] REHASAKU Co Ltd, Minato Ku, Tokyo, Japan; [Inada, Ryuta] Shimada Hosp, Dept Rehabil, Habikino, Japan; [Saito, Hiroki] Tokyo Univ Technol, Dept Occupat Therapy, Tokyo, Japan; [Uchino, Shota; Saito, Hiroki] Tokyo Univ Technol, Ctr Human Movement, Tokyo, Japan; [Saito, Hiroki] Tokyo Univ Technol, Dept Occupat Therapy, Tokyo, Japan								15							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001273806200001	64	Article; Article		
J	Jeong, Yunduk								Effect of baseball stadium food service quality on outcome variables with emphasis on the moderating role of stadium atmosphere								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				25	5			1079	1104		10.1108/IJSMS-02-2024-0045			SEP 25 2024	2024	PurposeWhile existing research has predominantly focused on the positive relationships between service quality and outcome variables, there has been limited investigation into the influence of food service quality on these variables or the moderating role of stadium atmosphere in the realm of sports marketing. This study aims to fill these gaps by examining the structural relationships between baseball stadium food quality, timeliness, satisfaction, and behavioral intention with an emphasis on the moderating effect of stadium atmosphere.Design/methodology/approachThe data were collected from spectators attending baseball games. This study established the validity of the measurement scale through confirmatory factor analysis, factor loadings, average variance extracted, and construct reliability using Cronbach's alpha. In addition, this study employed structural equation modeling with maximum likelihood estimation to examine positive relationships and mediating effects and used Jamovi statistical software to conduct moderation analysis.FindingsThe findings demonstrate the significant impacts of food quality on satisfaction and behavioral intention, the positive effects of timeliness on satisfaction and behavioral intention, and the notable influence of satisfaction on behavioral intention. Additionally, this study found that satisfaction partially mediates the aforementioned relationships and that stadium atmosphere moderates these pathways.Originality/valueThis study contributes to the literature by addressing the impact of food service quality on outcome variables within sports marketing, an area that has received limited attention. Specifically, it examines how food quality and timeliness influence consumer satisfaction and behavioral intention. Furthermore, the study highlights the moderating role of stadium atmosphere, demonstrating its potential to enhance the relationship between food quality and consumer outcomes. These findings expand our understanding of consumer behavior in sports settings, offering practical strategies for team officials to enhance fan experiences. By diversifying menu options, optimizing concession operations, and collaborating with local vendors, team officials can significantly improve food service quality and create a more engaging stadium atmosphere.		[Jeong, Yunduk] Kookmin Univ, Seoul, South Korea; [Jeong, Yunduk] Kookmin Univ, Seoul, South Korea								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001268576400001	87	Article; Article		
J	Aspen, Aubrey; Jooste, Julius								Does In-The-Moment Strategic Self-Talk Affect Volleyball Officials' Refereeing Efficacy?								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				96	1			146	154		10.1080/02701367.2024.2376243			JAN 2 2025	2025	Self-talk in sport is a valuable self-help tool for regulating one's emotions, thoughts, and actions. This study aimed to examine whether the use of in-the-moment, strategic self-talk enhances volleyball officials' efficacy beliefs about their refereeing decisions in match-play scenarios. The relationship between officials' general self-talk tendencies and commonly perceived refereeing efficacy in recent matches was also investigated. A between-subjects design powered by an online Qualtrics survey was employed to recruit 62 skilled volleyball officials (Mage = 54.69, SD = 13.15 years) who were randomly assigned to strategic self-talk (experimental) or unrelated pangram statements (control) groups. Before assessing two disputed match-play situations presented as video clips, the officials were instructed to verbally reaffirm three assigned statements. Officials were then asked to rate their confidence in the accuracy and fairness of their decisions in each scenario. They also completed the Automatic Self-Talk Questionnaire for Sports and the Referee Self-Efficacy Scales. The Mann-Whitney-U test found no significant variations in decision-making beliefs to the match-play scenarios between the groups. Further analyses revealed significant associations between the study variables with organic self-talk tendencies employed to "psych up" and convey "worry" to exert significant and opposing influences on various aspects of officials' refereeing self-efficacy. Despite these influences, it is recommended that experienced officials may already have a reservoir of experiential acumen and metacognitive skills, which may necessitate a more protracted engagement with self-talk methods under social evaluative conditions to perceive confidence shifts in volleyball decision-making.		[Aspen, Aubrey; Jooste, Julius] Northumbria Univ, Newcastle Upon Tyne, England; [Jooste, Julius] Northumbria Univ, Dept Psychol, Newcastle Upon Tyne NE1 8ST, England								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001267571400001	64	Article; Article		
J	Rogers, Ann E.; Wichman, Christopher S.; Schenkelberg, Michaela A.; Dzewaltowski, David A.								Inequality in Children's Physical Activity Across Time-Segmented Youth Sport Practice								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				96	1			96	108		10.1080/02701367.2024.2367565			JAN 2 2025	2025	Purpose: Youth sport (YS) is a community system for promoting children's physical activity (PA). Studies have examined mean PA during YS practices, but few have examined inequalities in the distribution of PA among children during practice time. This study examined PA inequality in time-segmented YS practices and differences in inequality by time segment characteristics. Methods: Children's PA and YS practices were examined using accelerometer and video observation data from a sample of YS teams (n = 36 teams, n = 101 practices) for third- through sixth-grade children (n = 392), approximately eight to 12 years old, in two rural U.S. communities. Practices were time-segmented into smaller units (episodes; n = 991). Episodes were assigned codes for purpose (e.g. warm-up), member arrangement (e.g. whole group), and setting demand (i.e. fosters participation, creates exclusion). Group accelerometer data were paired with episodes, and the Gini coefficient quantified inequality in activity counts and minutes of moderate-to-vigorous PA (MVPA). Beta generalized estimating equations examined the influence of episode structure on PA inequality. Results: Warm-up (Gini = 0.22), fitness (Gini = 0.24), and sport skill (Gini = 0.24) episodes had significantly lower inequality (p < .05) in activity counts than other purpose types. Management (Gini = 0.32) and strategy (Gini = 0.40) episodes had significantly greater inequality (p < .05) in MVPA minutes than other purpose types. Episodes fostering participation (Gini = 0.32) had significantly lower activity count inequality (p < .05) than episodes creating exclusion (Gini = 0.35). Conclusion: PA inequality among children during YS varied by practice structure. Metrics such as the Gini coefficient can illuminate inequalities in PA and may be useful for guiding efforts to improve population PA in children.		[Rogers, Ann E.; Wichman, Christopher S.; Dzewaltowski, David A.] Univ Nebraska Med Ctr, Omaha, NE USA; [Schenkelberg, Michaela A.] Univ Nebraska Omaha, Omaha, NE USA; [Rogers, Ann E.] Univ Nebraska Med Ctr, Coll Publ Hlth, Dept Hlth Promot, 984365 Nebraska Med Ctr, Omaha, NE 68198 USA								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001271320100001	81	Article; Article		
J	Madruga-Parera, Marc; Esteves, Pedro T.; Fernandes, John F. T.; Beltran-Garrido, Vicente; Bird, Stephen; Leite, Nuno; Romero-Rodriguez, Daniel; Arede, Jorge								Inclusion of Game-Based Stimulus During Flywheel Resistance Training Positively Influences Physical Performance in Handball Players								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				96	1			1	10		10.1080/02701367.2024.2359603			JAN 2 2025	2025	Handball is a body-contact Olympic ball sport that is characterized by fast-paced defensive and offensive actions. Players must coordinate explosive movements (e.g. changing of direction) and handball-specific skills (e.g. passing). Maximizing performance requires a systematic approach to training that includes physical, psychological, technical, and tactical preparation. Purpose: The aim of this study is to determine the effects of movement-based (MOV; unspecific sport stimulus) or game-based (GAM; sport-specific stimulus) flywheel resistance training intervention in highly trained youth handball players. Method:Twenty-five highly trained youth male handball players completed two sessions per week of flywheel resistance training (MOV, n = 12; GAM, n = 13) over the 7-week intervention period. Change-of-direction tests (180 degrees change-of-direction speed test of both legs and test) and handball-throwing test were conducted before and after the intervention. Results: Both groups significantly improved V-cut, and 180 degrees Change-of-direction speed test performance (p < .05; d = 0.79-2.05). Notwithstanding, the GAM group demonstrated greater improvements in V-cut and COD180ASY compared with the MOV group (p < .05) with small effect. Handball throwing speed performance remained unchanged independently of training condition (p > .05). Conclusions: These findings provide further support for the training principle of "specificity" and highlight the importance of including a game-based training stimulus during resistance training. This is a key consideration for coaches wanting to enhance physical performance in youth handball players.		[Madruga-Parera, Marc; Romero-Rodriguez, Daniel] Univ Int Catalunya, Catalonia, Spain; [Madruga-Parera, Marc; Romero-Rodriguez, Daniel] Return Play & Sports Training Ctr, ReQ, Barcelona, Spain; [Madruga-Parera, Marc; Romero-Rodriguez, Daniel] INNOVITY, Barcelona, Spain; [Esteves, Pedro T.] Polytech Inst Guarda, Guarda, Portugal; [Fernandes, John F. T.] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Cardiff, Wales; [Beltran-Garrido, Vicente] Univ Cardenal Herrera CEU, Valencia, Spain; [Bird, Stephen] Sch Hlth & Med Sci, Ipswich, Pakistan; [Leite, Nuno] Univ Trasos Montes & Alto Douro, Vila Real, Portugal; [Leite, Nuno; Arede, Jorge] CIDESD, Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev, Covilha, Portugal; [Arede, Jorge] Polytech Inst Viseu, Sch Educ, Rua Dr Maximiano Aragao 41, P-3500155 Viseu, Portugal; [Arede, Jorge] Higher Inst Educ Sci Douro, Penafiel, Portugal; [Arede, Jorge] Univ Europea Madrid, Madrid, Spain; [Arede, Jorge] Polytech Inst Viseu, Sch Educ, Rua Dr Maximiano Aragao 41, P-3500155 Viseu, Portugal								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001268364300001	53	Article; Article		
J	Silvino, Marcos Paulo F.; Sarmento, Hugo; Teoldo, Israel								Comparing the Tactical Behavior of Young Soccer Players in Full- and Small-Sided Games								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				95	4			983	992		10.1080/02701367.2024.2357661			OCT 1 2024	2024	The objective was to assess and compare the tactical conduct of players aged U-8, U-10, and U-12 during full- and small-sided games, focusing on tactical modeling and interaction dynamics. Each age group comprised three teams (n = 180; 60 per category; 20 per team), engaging in a tournament where teams faced each other once in both formats - 18 matches; 3 per category in each format. Full-sided games (GK + 10 vs.10 + GK; 100 x 68 m) and small-sided games (U-8: GK + 4 vs. 4 + GK (36 x 20 m); U-10: GK + 7 vs. 7 + GK (52.5 x 34 m); U-12: GK + 10 vs. 10 + GK (68 x 45 m). Standard playing times (3 periods of 12 minutes (U-8s); 3 periods of 15 minutes (U-10s); and 3 periods of 20 minutes (U-12s), with a 5-minute break. Variables were examined using descriptive analysis (mean, standard deviation, and confidence interval), with paired t-tests and Wilcoxon tests employed for inter-format comparisons. Despite players benefiting from more time and space in full-sided games (increased ball receptions and overall ball involvement), results from small-sided games indicate three key advantages: 1) More goals (U-8s: z = -3.44, p = .050) and shots on target (U-8: z = -3.25, p = .001; U-10: z = -2.72, p = .007); 2) Game space management-ball circulation in larger amplitude (U-10: t = -4.20, p = .001; U-12: t = -4.35, p < .001); and with more transitions (U-10: t = -3.60, p = .002; U-12: t = -4.16, p = .001) and 3) Fast decision-making-larger ball velocity circulation (U-08: t = -3.54, p = .003; U-10: t = -5.13, p < .001; U-12: t = -5.80, p < .001).		[Silvino, Marcos Paulo F.; Teoldo, Israel] Univ Fed Vicosa, Ctr Res & Studies Soccer, Vicosa, Brazil; [Sarmento, Hugo] Univ Coimbra, Coimbra, Portugal; [Teoldo, Israel] Dept Educ Fis, Ave Peter Henry Rolfs S-N,Campus Univ, BR-36570900 Vicosa, MG, Brazil								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001265738700001	48	Article; Article		
J	Moura, Eliezer Guimaraes; Bedoya-Castano, Javier; Barboza, Catarina de Andrade; Silva, Gabriela; Dias Jr, Gilmar; da Costa, Gabriela Ribeiro Ministro; Moreno Jr, Heitor; Rodrigues, Bruno								Duration of Water-Based Exercise on Hemodynamic and Sleep Quality: An of Hypertensives and Normotensives Subanalysis								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				96	1			53	61		10.1080/02701367.2024.2363464			JAN 2 2025	2025	<bold>Purpose</bold>: This study aimed to determine whether a better hemodynamic profile and a better sleep quality are associated with the duration of physical exercise in the water; secondly, it aims to determine whether better sleep quality is associated with a more favorable hemodynamic profile. <bold>Methods</bold>: 97 subjects (85 women, age 59.46 +/- 10.62) were included in the study. Groups were divided into normotensive (n = 46) and hypertensive individuals, (n = 51) duration of water aerobics (1-6 (n = 18), 7-11 (n = 11), 12-35 (n = 26), and > 36 months (n = 42), respectively), and sleep quality (Good, Poor, and Sleep Disordered). The peripheral (brachial), central (through applanation tonometry), and arterial blood pressure were assessed, and the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index questionnaire was collected. <bold>Results</bold>: We found that the groups practicing water-based exercise for a more extended period (>6 months) did not present improved pressure values and sleep quality. The best (though still weak) relationship between the water-based exercise time and the sleep quality values occurred between the group of 7-11 exercising for over 36 months (r = - 0.29 for both). When multivariate regression analysis was performed, there was interaction between AIx@75bpm and sleep quality score, as well as between AIx@75bpm and the age of subjects (p = .006 and 0.003, respectively). <bold>Conclusion</bold>: The data from the present study reported that subjects who participated for a longer time in the water aerobics training protocol had no additional hemodynamic and sleep quality benefits compared to volunteers with shorter duration groups (<6 months).		[Moura, Eliezer Guimaraes; Bedoya-Castano, Javier; Barboza, Catarina de Andrade; Silva, Gabriela; Dias Jr, Gilmar; da Costa, Gabriela Ribeiro Ministro; Moreno Jr, Heitor; Rodrigues, Bruno] Univ Campinas UNICAMP, Sch Phys Educ, Ave Er Verissimo,701 Cid Univ,Barao Geraldo, BR-13083851 Campinas, SP, Brazil; [Moura, Eliezer Guimaraes] Adventist Univ Ctr Sao Paulo UNASP HT, Hortolandia, SP, Brazil; [Moura, Eliezer Guimaraes] Univ Campinas UNICAMP, Sch Phys Educ, Ave Er Verissimo,701 Cid Univ,Barao Geraldo, BR-13083851 Campinas, SP, Brazil								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001268894200001	43	Article; Article		
J	de Oliveira, Inae; Stoelben, Karine J. V.; Tulius, Eduarda Santos; Ferreira, Vitoria de Pereira; Carpes, Felipe P.								Strength and clinical test combinations enhance predictions of sagittal and frontal plane biomechanics in single-leg landing								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				69				1	7		10.1016/j.ptsp.2024.06.008			SEP 2024	2024	Objectives: To determine whether clinical screening tests can predict lower limb joint kinematics and kinetics outcomes eliciting anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) injury risk in single-leg landings. Design: Cross-sectional study. Setting: Laboratory research. Participants: Twenty-six professional male futsal athletes. Main outcome measures: Participants completed the Modified Star Excursion Balance Test (mSEBT), Lateral Step Down (LSD), Lunge, Hop tests, and isometric strength tests for clinical screening of lower extremity injury risk and performed single-leg landings to assess lower extremity 3D kinematics and kinetics outcomes. Results: mSEBT, LSD, and isometric strength were the more important tests when constructing the prediction models. The predictive power of clinical tests for screening injury risk significantly increases when combined with strength measurements (p = 0.005, f 2 = 0.595). We discerned 11 biomechanical predictions, six explicitly related to the sagittal plane 's biomechanics. Some predictions were leg-dependent, with muscle strength tests predominantly predicting biomechanical outcomes of the preferred leg. Conclusion: Combining clinical screening tests with strength measures enhances ACL injury risk factors prediction during single-leg landings. Clustering at least two tests improves prediction accuracy, aiding injury prevention planning and decision-making.		[de Oliveira, Inae; Stoelben, Karine J. V.; Tulius, Eduarda Santos; Ferreira, Vitoria de Pereira; Carpes, Felipe P.] Fed Univ Pampa, Appl Neuromech Grp, Uruguaiana, RS, Brazil; [Stoelben, Karine J. V.] Childrens Hosp Eastern Ontario Res Inst, Ottawa, ON, Canada; [Carpes, Felipe P.] Fed Univ Pampa, Lab Neuromech, BR 472 km 592 POB 118, BR-97500 Uruguaiana, RS, Brazil								2							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001266164000001	33	Article; Article		
J	Protzen, Gabriel; Matoso, Bruno; Doma, Kenji; de Oliveira Jr, Silvio; Boullosa, Daniel								Does the Repeated-Bout Effect Influence Post-Activation Performance Enhancement in Recreational Runners?								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				95	4			945	952		10.1080/02701367.2024.2353719			OCT 1 2024	2024	Purpose: This study examined how a low dose of an eccentric-oriented lunge exercise could induce the repeated-bout effect (RBE) and affect the subsequent post-activation performance enhancement (PAPE) in recreational runners. Methods: Twenty male recreational runners (32.1 +/- 2.8 years; 173.4 +/- 6.1 cm; 73.3 +/- 11.5 kg; 57.8 +/- 7.2 mL<middle dot>kg-1<middle dot>min-1) were divided into control (N = 10) and experimental (N = 10) groups. In the first and fourth weeks, the groups were assessed for jump capacity, dynamic balance, and submaximal running kinematics before and after an incremental shuttle-run test until exhaustion. The experimental group was also submitted to two sessions of the eccentric-oriented lunge exercise (3 sets of 10 repetitions with 2 min of passive recovery) in the second and third weeks. Results: We observed that the first session promoted muscle damage, which was significantly (p < .05) reduced after the second training session, thus indicating an RBE. Meanwhile, there was no effect of the RBE on dynamic balance and submaximal running kinematics in the post-intervention. However, there was a significant increase in countermovement jump height (p = .008) for the experimental group when compared to the control group, although no PAPE was observed. Conclusions: The current results demonstrate that a simple, low-dose eccentric-oriented exercise may induce an RBE, leading to reduced muscle damage and a possibly improved lower limbs' muscle power in recreational runners. However, the absence of PAPE effects suggests that the RBE may not directly influence the potentiation/fatigue balance after fatiguing running exercises.		[Protzen, Gabriel; Boullosa, Daniel] Univ Leon, Leon, Spain; [Matoso, Bruno; de Oliveira Jr, Silvio; Boullosa, Daniel] Univ Fed Mato Grosso do Sul, Campo Grande, Brazil; [Doma, Kenji; Boullosa, Daniel] James Cook Univ, Townsville, NC USA; [Boullosa, Daniel] Univ Leon, Fac Ciencias Actividad Fis & Deporte, Campus Vegazana S-N, Leon 24007, Spain								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001262609100001	46	Article; Article		
J	de Morais Ferreira, Ayrton Bruno; Ribeiro, Bruno Laerte Lopes; Medeiros da Silva, Iago; Fontenele-Araujo, John; Luis Mortatti, Arnaldo								Effect of Training Load Intensification on the Sleep Pattern of Young Soccer Players								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				96	1			11	20		10.1080/02701367.2024.2359608			JAN 2 2025	2025	Purpose: The aim of this study was to examine how intensifying training loads over a week affects the sleep patterns of young soccer players on the nights immediately following the intensified training sessions. Methods: Quasi-experimental study. Fifteen young athletes participants of a team engaged in national level competition, underwent two weeks of training with varying load magnitudes-Week 1: low accumulated training load and Week 2: intensified training loads [40% increase in external training load(ETL)]. To characterize the intensification of the workload, the methods PlayerLoad and RPE-Session were employed to measure ETL and internal training load(ITL), respectively. Total sleep time(TST), total time in bed(TTB), sleep efficiency(SE), sleep latency(SL), and wake after sleep onset(WASO) were obtained using actigraphy and daily sleep log. The variables were compared among the days of week (e.g. Monday of week 1 with Monday of week 2, and so forth). Results: Acute training intensification in week 2 led to significant increases in ETL and ITL on Monday and on Wednesday(p < .05), and ETL(p < .05) on Friday on the second week. Improvements in sleep were observed (Tuesday-TST:+80 min, WASO:-29.3 min, SL:-8 min, SE:+9%; Thursday-TST:+86 min, SL:-4 min, SE:+4%; Saturday-TST:+40 min, SL:+1 min) compared to the same day of the previous week. Correlations between ETL and ITL(r = 0.637), ITL and TST(r = 0.572), ITL and SE(r = 0.548) were found. Conclusion: Intensification of training loads results in alterations in sleep variables, notably an elevated TST and SE in the days subsequent to the acute load increment.		[de Morais Ferreira, Ayrton Bruno; Ribeiro, Bruno Laerte Lopes; Medeiros da Silva, Iago; Fontenele-Araujo, John; Luis Mortatti, Arnaldo] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Norte, Natal, Brazil; [de Morais Ferreira, Ayrton Bruno] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Norte, Dept Phys Educ, Ave Senador Salgado Filho 3000, BR-59090315 Natal, Brazil								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001262606600001	54	Article; Article		
J	Sassenberg, Anne-Marie; Sassenberg, Cindy								How do consumers evaluate sponsorship in the aftermath of sport celebrity scandals? Uncovering evidence on social media data mining								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				25	5			1044	1058		10.1108/IJSMS-09-2023-0200			SEP 25 2024	2024	PurposeThe purpose of this study is to investigate the effects of sport scandals on consumer perceptions of the associated sponsors and sport and to provide a typology of sport celebrity scandals to guide management response tactics.Design/methodology/approachThe study conducted four focus groups that were followed by social media data mining. A total of 8,289 consumer comments were collected from 147 websites, and a total of 224 comments were analyzed in terms of themes and frequency.FindingsThe research found the impact of sport scandals on consumer perceptions of sponsorship evaluations depended on whether the scandal was gender related scandal, recreational drug use, gender violence, unplanned and planned on-field scandals. Gender violence and planned on-field scandals can have an overwhelmingly negative impact on sponsorship evaluations, while unplanned on-field scandals may result in positive effects. Consumer empathy may influence the impact of recreational drug use, and the gender of the sport celebrity can influence the impact of unplanned on-field scandals.Research limitations/implicationsThis study contributes to sponsorship theory by indicating the type of scandal affects consumer perceptions of associated sponsors and sport.Practical implicationsThe findings may guide management to develop response tactics to sport scandals. The response tactics may be based on consumer perceptions of the impact of the scandal on the associated sponsors and sport. Sponsor and sport management response tactics may be perceived as a differentiation of the sponsor and sport brands. It may be necessary that sponsorship agreements included pre-determined response tactics that contribute to value formation in the local community.Originality/valueThis study contributes to sponsorship theory by indicating the type of scandal affects consumer perceptions of sponsorship evaluations. Two additional factors may impact these influences: consumer empathy and the gender of the sport celebrity.		[Sassenberg, Anne-Marie; Sassenberg, Cindy] Univ Southern Queensland, Sch Business, Fac Business Educ Law & Arts, Springfield, Australia; [Sassenberg, Anne-Marie] Univ Southern Queensland, Sch Business, Fac Business Educ Law & Arts, Springfield, Australia								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001259788300001	63	Article; Article		
J	Kasahara, Satoshi; Ishida, Tomoya; Jiang, Linjing; Chiba, Ami; Samukawa, Mina; Tohyama, Harukazu								Relationship among the COM Motion, the Lower Extremity and the Trunk during the Squat								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				93				29	39		10.5114/jhk/183066			JUL 2024	2024	Squatting is a common motion in activities of daily living and is frequently used in training programs. Squatting requires a shift of the body in both vertical and anterior-posterior directions. Postural control during squatting is considered a mixed strategy; however, details and roles of the trunk and lower limb joints are unclear. The purpose of this study was to investigate the relationship among the kinematics of the lower limb, the trunk and the center of mass (COM) descent during squatting. Twenty-six healthy young adults performed repeated parallel squats. Lower limb joint and trunk angles and the COM were analyzed using a 3D motion analysis system. We evaluated the relationship between the kinematics and the squat depth by performing correlation analysis and multiple linear regression analysis. The ankle was the first to reach its maximum angle, and the remaining joints reached their maximum angles at the maximum squat depth. The knee joint motion and the squat depth were significantly correlated and there was a correlation between the hip and the ankle joint motion and the anteroposterior displacement of the COM during squatting. Multivariate linear regression analysis indicated that squat depth was predicted by both the knee and ankle motion and that anteroposterior displacement of the COM was predicted by the hip, ankle, and knee joint motion. The knees contributed to the vertical COM motion during squatting, while the hips contributed to the COM motion in the anteroposterior direction. On the other hand, the ankles contributed to COM motions in both the vertical and anteroposterior directions during squatting.		[Kasahara, Satoshi; Ishida, Tomoya; Jiang, Linjing; Samukawa, Mina; Tohyama, Harukazu] Hokkaido Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Rehabil Sci, Sapporo, Japan; [Chiba, Ami] Hirosaki Univ Hosp, Dept Rehabil, Hirosaki, Japan; [Ishida, Tomoya] Hokkaido Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Rehabil Sci, Sapporo, Japan								7							Sport Sciences	WOS:001274058400003	28	Article; Article		
J	Liu, Ruizhi; Lames, Martin								Within-Match Performance Fluctuations: Assessment and Observed vs. Expected Extent in Table Tennis								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				93				217	229		10.5114/jhk/184275			JUL 2024	2024	This study aimed to assess within-match performance fluctuations in table tennis by utilising a dynamic performance indicator, a tailored version of a double moving average. This performance indicator applied to the sequence of wins and losses per rally, modelled a player's momentary point-winning probability or playing strength. Binomial distribution and Monte Carlo simulations were employed to obtain the expected distributions of double moving averages and their kurtosis. A total of two hundred and eleven single matches from the 2020 Tokyo Olympic Games were examined to characterise the extent of empirical fluctuations and to test for deviations from the expected fluctuations. Results showed that there were large within-match fluctuations (average IQR per match = 0.27). In addition, only one out of the two hundred and eleven matches exhibited a significant deviation from the stochastically expected double moving average distribution. This deviation was observed in the kurtosis of sixteen matches (7.6%). These findings underline the importance of considering within-match dynamic changes when conducting theoretical or practical performance analyses. This consideration should also extend to other performance indicators and various sports games.		[Liu, Ruizhi] Shanghai Univ Sport, China Table Tennis Coll, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Liu, Ruizhi; Lames, Martin] Tech Univ Munich, Sch Med & Hlth, Munich, Germany; [Liu, Ruizhi] Shanghai Univ Sport, China Table Tennis Coll, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Liu, Ruizhi] Tech Univ Munich, Sch Med & Hlth, Munich, Germany								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:001274058400018	25	Article; Article		
J	Walach-Bista, Zuzanna; Kocur, Dagna; Sas-Nowosielski, Krzysztof								Psychometric Evaluation of the Polish Version of the Mindfulness Inventory for Sport (MIS-PL)								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				93				245	258		10.5114/jhk/190572			JUL 2024	2024	The study investigated psychometric properties of the Polish version of the Mindfulness Inventory for Sport (MIS-PL). Following an expert review (stage 1), a sample of 333 athletes voluntarily participated in the study to verify the internal structure of the questionnaire (stage 2). In a final step (stage 3), confirmatory factor analysis and correlation analysis of the MIS-PL subscales with other variables were conducted to demonstrate the stability and reproducibility of the factor structure of the scale and to determine the theoretical validity of the measure. The factor analyses performed confirmed the three-factor structure of the MIS-PL with the following dimensions: 1) awareness, 2) non-judgmental attitude, and 3) refocusing, characterized by acceptable fit indices. Analyses of the correlations between the MIS-PL subscales and conceptually related variables (mindfulness in daily life, worry, concentration disruption, mental toughness, and flow) also proved statistically significant. In summary, the MIS-PL is a valid measure for assessing mindfulness in sport.		[Walach-Bista, Zuzanna; Sas-Nowosielski, Krzysztof] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Dept Pedag Psychol & Sociol, Katowice, Poland; [Kocur, Dagna] Univ Silesia, Inst Psychol, Katowice, Poland; [Walach-Bista, Zuzanna] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Dept Pedag Psychol & Sociol, Katowice, Poland								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001274058400020	38	Article; Article		
J	Mackala, Krzysztof; Omelko, Rafal; Mroczek, Dariusz; Szczepan, Stefan; Mastalerz, Andrzej								Kinematics of Two Special Endurance Trials: A Methodological Contribution to 400-m Performance								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				93				181	191		10.5114/jhk/185155			JUL 2024	2024	This study aimed to determine changes in the kinematics of sprint steps based on progressive muscular fatigue during high-intensity 350-m and 500-m trials. Twelve elite healthy male 400-m sprinters with a minimum of six years of regular sprint training experience were recruited. They were divided into two groups for the experiment: a 350-m and a 500-m trial group. Time and kinematics of sprinting step motion for specific segments, i.e., starting to final stages of each trial, were obtained using the Opto Jump-Microgate optical measurement system. The starting phase of each sprint was defined as the section without muscular fatigue (noF), and the final phase was the sprint under muscular fatigue (onF). Each last 25 m of the 50-m evaluated section containing ten complete running steps was selected for detailed statistical analysis. Various patterns of temporal and spatial variables of sprinting efforts were observed between 350-m and 500-m trials. Each trial result was influenced by significant individual changes (p < 0.05). All variables indicated that the two distances differed significantly in terms of running kinematics. This was confirmed by significant differences in the mean step frequency (p < 0.001), which presented a difference of 11.75%, and the mean step speed (p < 0.001). As a result of these changes, a hierarchical intermittent endurance training pattern was defined. The research concluded that special endurance (intermittent sprints) based on 350 m differed significantly in kinematics from sprints over 500 m. Therefore, it should be assumed that the distance of 350 m is more similar in its kinematics to the 400-m competition. This should encourage coaches and athletes to apply a 350-m distance in training developing special endurance, especially in the pre-competitive and competitive periods.		[Mackala, Krzysztof; Omelko, Rafal] Wroclaw Univ Hlth & Sport Sci, Dept Track & Field, Wroclaw, Poland; [Mroczek, Dariusz] Wroclaw Univ Hlth & Sport Sci, Dept Biol & Motor Sport Bases, Wroclaw, Poland; [Szczepan, Stefan] Wroclaw Univ Hlth & Sport Sci, Dept Swimming, Wroclaw, Poland; [Mastalerz, Andrzej] Jozef Pilsudski Univ Phys Educ Warsaw, Fac Phys Educ, Dept Biomed Sci, Warsaw, Poland; [Mackala, Krzysztof] Wroclaw Univ Hlth & Sport Sci, Dept Track & Field, Wroclaw, Poland								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:001274058400015	42	Article; Article		
J	Franca, Cintia; Martins, Francisco; Przednowek, Krzysztof; Marques, Adilson; Ihle, Andreas; Sarmento, Hugo; Gouveia, Elvio Rubio								Knee and Hip Muscle Strength of Male Soccer Players from Different Competitive Levels								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				93				17	27		10.5114/jhk/185217			JUL 2024	2024	In soccer, knee and hip muscle strength assessments have been recommended for injury prevention. The aims of this study were threefold: (1) to compare knee and hip muscle strength between professional players competing at different levels; (2) to compare strength performance according to the preferred leg (PL) and the non-preferred leg (NPL); and (3) to compare knee and hip muscle strength performance at two moments of the season. This study included 33 professional soccer players: 13 were in the elite group (EG), and 20 were in the sub-elite group (SEG). Body composition, isokinetic knee strength at 60 degrees/s, and hip adduction strength were assessed at two different moments (M1 and M2). Values of peak torque (PT), peak torque/bodyweight (PT/BW), and the hamstring-to-quadriceps strength ratio (H:Q) for knee extensors (KEs) and knee flexors (KFs) for both legs were used for analysis. The statistical analysis included the Mann-Whitney U and the Wilcoxon Signed Rank tests. At M1, the EG presented a significantly better performance in KF PT/BW and in the squeeze strength test for the PL and the NPL (p _- 0.01). At M2, the EG performed substantially better in KE PT/BW and KF PT/BW (p _- 0.01). No substantial strength differences were observed in knee and hip muscle performance between the PL and the NPL. From M1 to M2, significant increases were found in knee strength in both groups (p _- 0.01). Overall, the EG players outperformed significantly their lower-division peers in strength assessments. The results indicate significant knee and hip muscle strength increases during the season, probably as a response to the exposure to training and competition.		[Franca, Cintia; Martins, Francisco; Gouveia, Elvio Rubio] Univ Madeira, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Funchal, Portugal; [Franca, Cintia; Martins, Francisco; Gouveia, Elvio Rubio] LARSYS, Interact Technol Inst, Funchal, Portugal; [Przednowek, Krzysztof] Univ Rzeszow, Inst Phys Culture Sci, Med Coll, Rzeszow, Poland; [Marques, Adilson] Univ Lisbon, Fac Human Kinet, CIPER, Lisbon, Portugal; [Marques, Adilson] Univ Lisbon, Fac Med, ISAMB, Lisbon, Portugal; [Marques, Adilson; Ihle, Andreas] Univ Geneva, Dept Psychol, Geneva, Switzerland; [Ihle, Andreas; Gouveia, Elvio Rubio] Univ Geneva, Ctr Interdisciplinary Study Gerontol & Vulnerabil, Geneva, Switzerland; [Ihle, Andreas] Swiss Ctr Expertise Life Course Res LIVES, Geneva, Switzerland; [Sarmento, Hugo] Univ Coimbra, Fac Sport Sci & Phys Educ, Res Unit Sport & Phys Educ CIDAF, Coimbra, Portugal; [Franca, Cintia] Univ Madeira, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Funchal, Portugal; [Franca, Cintia] LARSYS, Interact Technol Inst, Funchal, Portugal								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:001274058400002	40	Article; Article		
J	Vermeulen, Stefan; De Bleecker, Camilla; Spanhove, Valentien; Boone, Jan; Willems, Tine; Vanrenterghem, Jos; Roosen, Philip; De Ridder, Roel								The Utility of High-Intensity, Intermittent Exercise Protocols to Induce Fatigue for Screening Purposes in Jump-Landing Sports								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				93				69	80		10.5114/jhk/183537			JUL 2024	2024	Short-term fatigue protocols simulating sports participation are scarce and not well-documented in jumplanding sports. Therefore, this study investigated physiological and physical responses following high-intensity, intermittent exercise protocols (HIIPs) with a standardized level of subjective exhaustion (Borg >= 18/20) and a modified fixed version of five circuits (HIIP-5) for future inclusion in biomechanical screening protocols. Twenty male volleyball and basketball players participated in this study to complete the HIIP and the HIIP-5. Physiological and physical variables were assessed before and up to 30 min after cessation of both protocols. Regarding physiological variables, heart rate values increased (+104 bpm, p < 0.001) and remained elevated up to 30 min (+34 bpm, p < 0.001), and blood lactate levels increased (+17 mmol/l, p < 0.001) compared to baseline. Regarding physical variables, decreased jump height (-4 cm, p = 0.001-0.009) and quadriceps muscle strength (p = 0.001-0.050) were observed up to 30 min compared to baseline. The type of the fatigue protocol did not have an effect on the investigated variables (p > 0.05). To conclude, both the HIIP and the HIIP-5 seem valuable tools to induce acute and long-lasting responses, providing a sufficiently large time window of 30 min within which biomechanical markers of injury can be assessed under fatigued conditions in future risk factor screenings. In practice, the fatigue protocol can be terminated after only five circuits if athletes had not yet been stopped at that point due to exhaustion (Borg >= 18/20).		[Vermeulen, Stefan; De Bleecker, Camilla; Spanhove, Valentien; Willems, Tine; Roosen, Philip; De Ridder, Roel] Univ Ghent, Dept Rehabil Sci, Ghent, Belgium; [Vermeulen, Stefan; De Bleecker, Camilla; Vanrenterghem, Jos] Katholieke Univ Leuven, Dept Rehabil Sci, Leuven, Belgium; [Boone, Jan] Univ Ghent, Dept Movement & Sports Sci, Ghent, Belgium; [Vermeulen, Stefan] Univ Ghent, Dept Rehabil Sci, Ghent, Belgium; [Vermeulen, Stefan] Katholieke Univ Leuven, Dept Rehabil Sci, Leuven, Belgium								9							Sport Sciences	WOS:001274058400006	35	Article; Article		
J	Roczniok, Robert; Stastny, Petr; Novak, Dominik; Opath, Lukas; Terbalyan, Artur; Musalek, Martin								The Relation of On-Ice and Off-Ice Performance at Two Different Performance Levels in Youth Ice-Hockey Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				93				193	203		10.5114/jhk/187238			JUL 2024	2024	Ice hockey requires two levels of specific agility, involving different abilities, where the level of agility and their constraints might vary by the performance level. Therefore, this study aimed to compare the relationship level between on-ice and off-ice change of directional speed (COD) of youth hockey players at two performance levels. The study was conducted during the hockey season, including U16 elite players (n = 40) and U16 sub-elite players (n = 23). Both groups performed specific on-ice fitness tests (4-m acceleration, 30-m sprint, and 6 x 54-m tests, an on-ice Illinois agility test with and without a puck) and off-ice tests consisting of non-arm swing countermovement jumps (CMJs), broad jumps, and pull-ups. Pearson correlation showed that the acceleration performance of elite players was related to the CMJ (r = -0.46) and the broad jump (r = -0.31). Sub-elite players showed stronger dependence of the 30-m sprint on the CMJ (r = -0.77) and the broad jump (r = -0.43), the relation of pulls ups (r = -0.62) and the CMJ (r = -0.50) to the 6 x 54-m test, yet no association to acceleration. Elite players differ between off-ice and on-ice performance constraints, where their skating sprint is less related to their vertical and horizontal take-off abilities than in sub-elite players. Sub-elite players' off-ice power determines their sprint and repeated sprint performance. COD performance of elite and sub-elite players is based on different conditioning constraints.		[Roczniok, Robert; Novak, Dominik; Terbalyan, Artur; Musalek, Martin] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Sports Sci Inst, Katowice, Poland; [Stastny, Petr] Charles Univ Prague, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Prague, Czech Republic; [Opath, Lukas] Matej Bel Univ Banska Bystrica, Fac Arts, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Banska Bystrica, Slovakia; [Stastny, Petr] Charles Univ Prague, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Prague, Czech Republic								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:001274058400016	50	Article; Article		
J	Wei, Xin; Zhong, Yaping; Wang, Tiantian								Effects of Time Point of Pre-Competitions Peaking on Performance in Major-Competitions								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				95	4			974	982		10.1080/02701367.2024.2357648			OCT 1 2024	2024	Objectives: To study the effects of the time points of pre-competition peaking (TPCP, the time point when an athlete's peaking shows up before a major-competition) on the athletes' performances in the major-competition (M-Performance). Design: Mixed design. Methods: We used cluster analysis to classify 892 elite track and field athletes who participated in the 2017 and 2019 IAAF World Championships in Athletics, based on their TPCP and other related factors. Furthermore, we used a fixed-effects model and a mixed-effects model to analyze the relationship between the TPCP and M-Performance. Results: The TPCP of elite track and field athletes were divided into four categories: late, slightly late, slightly early, and early. In speed/power events, athletes in the slightly late category had better M-Performance. In endurance events, athletes in the slightly early category had better M-Performance. In speed/power events, delaying the TPCP did not improve the athletes' M-Performance. In endurance events, advancing the TPCP effectively improved the athletes' M-Performance. Conclusions: To improve M-Performance, athletes in speed/power events should be peaking 2-8 weeks before a major-competition, and athletes in endurance events should be peaking 8-14 weeks before a major-competition. Future research should aim to identify individual factors affecting TPCP, such as the time for the body's adaptation to training and the residual training effect.		[Wei, Xin; Wang, Tiantian] Hubei Univ Technol, Wuhan, Peoples R China; [Wei, Xin; Zhong, Yaping] Wuhan Sports Univ, Wuhan, Peoples R China; [Zhong, Yaping] Wuhan Sports Univ, Sports Big data Res Ctr, Wuhan 430079, Peoples R China								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001259300300001	31	Article; Article		
J	O'Brien-Smith, Jade; Smith, Mitchell R.; Lenoir, Matthieu; Fransen, Job								Exploring the Effects of Instruction and Game Design on Youth Soccer Players' Skill Involvement and Cooperative Team Behaviour								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				96	1			109	115		10.1080/02701367.2024.2368597			JAN 2 2025	2025	Objectives: The relationship between task constraints and player behaviors is of interest to coaches tasked with designing practice to optimize learning. This study aims to compare the skill involvements and cooperative team behavior of teams of youth soccer players engaged in a goal exaggeration and/or a prescriptive coach instruction condition compared to a free-play control condition. Methods: Twenty male soccer players aged 12-15 participated in small-sided games under four conditions: free-play, goal exaggeration, prescriptive coach instruction, and combination over four weeks. Using video footage, teams' collective skill involvements (shot, pass, dribble) and passing network characteristics (closeness, density, and betweenness) were measured for each game. Results: A Friedmans rank test identified that playing conditions resulted in significant differences in attempted dribbles (p < .001), goals scored (p < .001), network density (p = .001), closeness (p < .001) and betweenness (p = .002). Teams attempted to dribble the most in the free-play and goal-exaggeration conditions, and the most goals were scored in the goal-exaggeration and combination conditions. Additionally, teams exhibited more well-connected passing networks (i.e. higher density, higher closeness, and lower betweenness values) in the combination condition and higher network density in the explicit instruction condition. Conclusions: The results of this study indicate that coach instruction may be more associated with cooperative team behavior, whereas free-play or manipulating task constraints in the absence of instruction may be associated with players attempting more individual actions.		[O'Brien-Smith, Jade; Smith, Mitchell R.] Univ Newcastle, Callaghan, Australia; [O'Brien-Smith, Jade; Lenoir, Matthieu] Univ Ghent, Ghent, Belgium; [O'Brien-Smith, Jade] Univ New South Wales, Sydney, Australia; [Fransen, Job] Charles Sturt Univ, Bathurst, Australia; [O'Brien-Smith, Jade] Univ New South Wales, Fac Med & Hlth, Sch Hlth Sci, Wallace Wurth Bldg C27,Cnr High St & Bot St, Sydney, NSW 2052, Australia								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001258498600001	29	Article; Article		
J	Caporal, Guilherme; Gaya, Adroaldo C. A.; Pedretti, Augusto; Mello, Julio B.								School-Age Talent Identification in Female Handball by a Mathematical Model: Equation Proposed from Anthropometry, Maturity Offset, Fitness and Technical Field-Tests								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				95	4			1002	1010		10.1080/02701367.2024.2358962			OCT 1 2024	2024	The present study aimed to identify parameters that best discriminate between high-level and scholar-level players for the Brazilian 13-14-year-old girl's handball and propose a mathematical model to identify sports talent for handball. The sample was made up of all available handball players comprising these two groups: 100 girls who participated in the high-level handball championship in Brazil and 53 girls (age 13-14 years) as finalists of the school-level games in one region of Brazil. We assess the anthropometric profile, maturity offset, physical fitness, and technical skills for handball. To propose the equation, the Discriminant Function Analysis method was used. The discriminant function was significant (p <= .05), had a good canonical correlation (0.590), and still had an average Wilk Lambda (0.652). The variables considered in the talent identification model included: 1. flexibility, 2. abdominal strength, 3. lower limbs muscle power, 4. agility, 5. defensive movement and 6. slalom with ball. The values from the equation for identifying school-age athletes with high motor skills and performance for handball can be classified by a cutoff point (Y = 0.192). The results showed that the mathematical-model obtained was able to select school-age athletes with high motor skills for handball, and with the profile for participation in high-level championships.		[Caporal, Guilherme; Gaya, Adroaldo C. A.] Univ Fed Do Rio Grande Do Sul, Porto Alegre, Brazil; [Pedretti, Augusto] Univ Reg Do Cariri, Crato, Brazil; [Mello, Julio B.] Pontificia Univ Catolica Valparaiso, Escuela Educ Fis, Phys Educ Sch, eFiDac Grp, Ave Bosque N 1290, Vina Del Mar 2520000, Valparaiso, Chile; [Mello, Julio B.] Pontificia Univ Catolica Valparaiso, Escuela Educ Fis, Phys Educ Sch, eFiDac Grp, Ave Bosque N 1290, Vina Del Mar 2520000, Valparaiso, Chile								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001257372000001	46	Article; Article		
J	Chesterton, Paul; Wright, Matthew; Liddle, Nathan; Hardin, Stacey; Richards, Skylar; Draper, Garrison								Practitioners' perspective of non-contact injury risk factors and injury prevention programming in professional North American male soccer								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				68				51	59		10.1016/j.ptsp.2024.06.003			JUL 2024	2024	Objective: To evaluate non -contact injury prevention strategies of professional men's soccer clubs in elite North American league soccer. To understand the application, perceived effectiveness and barriers to implementation. Design: Online cross -Sectional Study. Setting: North American elite soccer teams. Participants: 96 medical and performance support staff of elite North American teams. Main outcome measure: The survey consisted of 20 questions and captured 1) practitioners' demographics; 2) perceptions of risk factors; 3) the use of assessment and monitoring strategies; and 4) perceptions of the implementation of injury prevention programmes'. Results: Injury prevention programmes were perceived as 'effective' (Median 4, Interquartile range 4-4) and reduced injury rates (n = 94, 98%, 95 CI% 93 to 99). A range of potential risk factors were rated as "very important" (4.58 +/- 0.52 Likert scale points; mean +/- standard deviation). A multi -disciplinary approach to the design, application and monitoring of programmes was generally adopted. Competing training priorities (n = 75, 78%, 95 CI% 69 to 85) and game schedules (n = 71, 74%, 95 CI% 64 to 82) were the most prevalent barriers to injury prevention implementation. Conclusions: Injury prevention programmes were perceived as effective in reducing non -contact injuries. Managing the conflicting priorities between scheduling training, tactical and conditioning goals were considered the key barriers to desired implementation.		[Chesterton, Paul; Wright, Matthew; Liddle, Nathan; Draper, Garrison] Teesside Univ, Sch Hlth & Life Sci, Borough Rd, Tees Valley TS1 3BA, England; [Hardin, Stacey] Laurus Athletic Rehab & Performance, Roseville, MN 55113 USA; [Richards, Skylar] Orlando Hlth Orthoped & Sports Med, Orlando, FL 32806 USA; [Draper, Garrison] Inter Miami CF, Ft Lauderdale, FL 33309 USA; [Chesterton, Paul] Teesside Univ, Sch Hlth & Life Sci, Borough Rd, Tees Valley TS1 3BA, England								1							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001262346900001	63	Article; Article		
J	Chung, Kyu-soo; Goebert, Chad; Johnso, John David								Sport spectatorship in a virtual environment: how sensory experiences impact consumption intentions								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				26	2			305	324		10.1108/IJSMS-03-2023-0041			APR 22 2025	2025	PurposeWith the advance of Web 3.0 and the range of sensory experiences offered by virtual reality (VR) to sport fans, this study examines how VR spectators' sensory experiences affect their intentions to consume VR products and services. For this purpose, the study puts forth an expanded stimulus-organism-response (S-O-R) model. In this framework, the stimuli are the sensory imagery and stimuli, the organism factors are presence and arousal and the response is the consumption intention. This model adeptly encapsulates the comprehensive process of stimuli while spectating a sporting event in a virtual environment.Design/methodology/approachFor a VR stimulus, researchers developed a 3-min collegiate women's volleyball game. Watching the game in VR were 131 collegiate students, who were then questioned about their visual and aural imagination of the game stimuli, perceived visual and aural stimuli, sense of presence, arousal and VR consumption intentions. To ensure the validity and reliability of the measurement model, confirmatory factor analysis was first conducted. Subsequently, the model was subjected to path analysis.FindingsThe measurement model demonstrated both validity and reliability. The subsequent path analysis yielded the model's satisfactory fit. In particular, the mental visualization of VR spectators significantly influenced their perception of visual stimuli, while their imaginative engagement with auditory aspects impacted their perception of aural stimuli. The observed visual stimuli positively impacted the degree of presence experienced and the level of arousal induced. Similarly, the auditory stimuli exerted comparable effects on presence and arousal. The sense of arousal exhibited a considerable influence on the sense of presence. Furthermore, arousal emerged as a substantial determinant of individuals' VR consumption intentions.Originality/valueThe study highlights that the affective status of VR sport spectators is dominant in determining their consumption intentions. Also, the study finds the decisive role of presence in processing sensory stimuli in virtual sport spectating. It also provides managerial insight into designing and customizing VR sport experiences to be more enjoyable and impactful.		[Chung, Kyu-soo] Kennesaw State Univ, WellStar Coll Hlth & Human Serv, Exercise Sci & Sport Management, Kennesaw, GA 30144 USA; [Chung, Kyu-soo] Kennesaw State Univ, WellStar Coll Hlth & Human Serv, Exercise Sci & Sport Management, Kennesaw, GA 30144 USA								13							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001251711800001	53	Article; Article		
J	Silva, Hugo; Nakamura, Fabio Yuzo; Praca, Gibson; Ribeiro, Joao; Marcelino, Rui								The Relationship Between Individually Assessed High-Intensity Accelerations, High-Intensity Decelerations, Sprints, and Technical Performances During Soccer Matches: A Full Season Analysis								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				95	4			930	937		10.1080/02701367.2024.2353713			OCT 1 2024	2024	Purpose: This longitudinal study analyzed the relationship between players' physical (sprint distances, number of high-intensity accelerations and decelerations assessed with individual and relative thresholds) and technical (retrieved from SofaScore platform) performances during competition. Methods: Twenty elite players were monitored across a full season. Physical performances were monitored with GNSS devices, retrieving time (s), velocity (km.h-1) and distance (m). Sprint distances were calculated as > 80% of the match peak speed registered across the season. High-intensity accelerations and decelerations were calculated as >75% of the peak values registered across the season. Pearson (r) correlations (with 95% confidence intervals) were calculated to assess the relationship among different physical performance variables and between the physical and technical performance variables. Results: Sprint distances correlated with the number of ball touches (r = -0.36 [-0.49, -0.23], p < .001), accurate passes (r = -0.45 [-0.56, -0.32], p < .001), and dribble attempts (r = 0.30 [0.16, 0.43], p < .001). If players touched the ball more frequently and pass the ball more accurately, they covered shorter sprint distances. However, if players attempted more dribbles, they covered longer sprint distances. Conclusion: Practitioners can develop tactical strategies considering the relationship between sprint distances and technical variables such as ball touches, accurate passes, and dribble attempts.		[Silva, Hugo; Nakamura, Fabio Yuzo; Ribeiro, Joao; Marcelino, Rui] CreativeLab Res Community, Maia, Portugal; [Silva, Hugo; Nakamura, Fabio Yuzo; Ribeiro, Joao; Marcelino, Rui] Univ Maia, Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Ave Carlos Oliveira Campos, P-4475690 Maia, Portugal; [Praca, Gibson] Univ Fed Minas Gerais, Minas Gerais, Brazil; [Ribeiro, Joao] Sporting Clube Braga SAD, Maia, Portugal; [Marcelino, Rui] Portuguese Football Federat, Maia, Portugal; [Silva, Hugo] Univ Maia, Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Ave Carlos Oliveira Campos, P-4475690 Maia, Portugal								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001252415600001	61	Article; Article		
J	Butcher, Anna J.; Ward, Sarah; Clissold, Tracey; Richards, Jim; Hebert-Losier, Kim								Maturation and biomechanical risk factors associated with anterior cruciate ligament injury: Is there a link? A systematic review								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				68				31	50		10.1016/j.ptsp.2024.06.002			JUL 2024	2024	Objective: To establish the potential link between sex-specific maturation and biomechanical factors associated with ACL injury during dynamic tasks. Design: Systematic review. Literature search: Five databases (CINHAL (R), Cochrane Library, PubMed (R), Scopus (R), and SPORTDiscus) were searched and monitored until 27 May 2024. Study selection criteria: Cross-sectional, cohort, case-control, or interventional studies reporting one or more biomechanical variable linked with ACL injury and which assessed participants across two or more maturation phases were considered eligible. Data synthesis: Studies were assessed for risk of bias using a modified version of the Newcastle Ottawa Scale and overall quality of evidence was rated using GRADE. Metrics and effect sizes were presented where available. Results: Eighteen included studies examined 400 males, 1377 females, and 315 participants of undefined sex across various maturation phases. The methodological quality of most studies (n = 16) was considered good, and satisfactory for two. Knee abduction angle, knee abduction moment, knee flexion angle, and ground reaction forces were most commonly reported. Knee abduction angles and moments and knee flexion angles were greater in late and post -pubertal females than males and pre -pubertal females during both landing and cutting tasks. When normalised for body mass, ground reaction forces were generally greater in males compared to females overall and for less mature participants for both sexes. Overall quality of evidence was low or medium across the four biomechanical measures. Conclusion: Sex-specific maturation considerations are important in the targeted development and implementation of ACL injury risk identification and prevention strategies.		[Butcher, Anna J.; Hebert-Losier, Kim] Univ Waikato, Adams Ctr High Performance, Te Huataki Waiora Sch Hlth, Div Hlth Engn Comp & Sci, 52 Miro St, Tauranga 3116, New Zealand; [Ward, Sarah] Univ Auckland, Dept Exercise Sci, Suiter St, Newmarket, New Zealand; [Clissold, Tracey] Toi Ohomai Inst Technol, 70 Windermere Dr, Tauranga 3112, New Zealand; [Richards, Jim] Univ Cent Lancashire, Allied Hlth Res Unit, Preston, England; [Butcher, Anna J.] Univ Waikato, Adams Ctr High Performance, Te Huataki Waiora Sch Hlth, Div Hlth Engn Comp & Sci, 52 Miro St, Tauranga 3116, New Zealand								12							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001259647400001	88	Article; Article		
J	Wang, Fong-Jia; Chiu, Weisheng; Cho, Heetae								The impact of perceived corporate social responsibility on employees' turnover intention in professional team sports: a conditional mediation model								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				25	5			973	999		10.1108/IJSMS-10-2023-0204			SEP 25 2024	2024	PurposeThe study investigated the impact of perceived corporate social responsibility (CSR) on employees' turnover intention in professional team sports organizations, focusing on employee identification and co-production's role in this context.Design/methodology/approachData were collected from 225 employees in professional team sports organizations, with analysis conducted via partial least squares structural equation modeling (PLS-SEM).FindingsThe results indicated that perceived CSR negatively impacted turnover intention. Employee identification mediated the relationship between perceived CSR and turnover intention. Moreover, co-production moderated the relationship between perceived CSR and employee identification, affecting the mediating role of employee identification between perceived CSR and turnover intention.Practical implicationsPrioritizing CSR offers benefits beyond improving an organization's public image. It also plays a crucial role in enhancing internal organizational dynamics. Specifically, it helps to increase employee identification with the company, reduce turnover intentions, and promote co-production. These outcomes, when combined, lead to the development of a stronger, more cohesive, and resilient organization.Originality/valueThis study provides empirical evidence of the influence of perceived CSR on employee identification and behavior within professional team sports organizations. It underscores the importance of enhancing employee identification to reduce turnover intention.		[Wang, Fong-Jia] Tamkang Univ, Off Phys Educ, Taipei, Taiwan; [Chiu, Weisheng] Hong Kong Metropolitan Univ, Kowloon, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [Cho, Heetae] Sungkyunkwan Univ, Dept Sport Sci, Suwon, South Korea; [Chiu, Weisheng] Hong Kong Metropolitan Univ, Kowloon, Hong Kong, Peoples R China								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001248839000001	105	Article; Article		
J	Smith, Kevin; Burns, Con; O'Neill, Cian; Quinn, Noreen; Winkelman, Nick; Wilkie, Matthew; Coughlan, Edward K.								An evaluation of the impact of the Irish Rugby Football Union Coach Education Framework on the coach-athlete dyad across the age and stage spectrum in rugby union								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	5			1927	1939		10.1177/17479541241258702			OCT 2024	2024	The purpose of this research was to evaluate the implementation of the novel Irish Rugby Football Union Coach Education Framework (CEF) on coach-athlete interactions and perceptions. Participants were coaches (n = 4) and athletes (n = 54) from two rugby union teams. Coaches were observed pre-intervention and post-intervention of an education workshop based on the CEF and had nine training sessions video-recorded and analysed using the Coach Analysis and Intervention System (CAIS). Their perceptions of their relationship with their athletes were measured using the Coach-Athlete Relationship Questionnaire (CART-Q). Athlete perceptions of their coaches' behaviours were measured using the Coaching Behaviour Scale for Sport (CBS-S). CAIS results revealed coaches increased the use of 'Management' and 'Feedback' behaviours (p < 0.05) post-CEF, without altering prominent high-volume behaviours (e.g. 'Instruction'). Coaches utilised similar time proportions for CAIS 'Practice', 'Playing' and 'Management' states, respectively, with no significant change post-CEF. CART-Q and CBS-S results revealed predominantly positive perceptions between coaches and athletes for both pre-CEF and post-CEF. Coach education is a non-linear learning process requiring consistent application over long periods of time, however, the alteration in coach behaviours post-CEF, coupled with the largely positive perceptions of both agents of the coach-athlete dyad, is an encouraging step forward for the further implementation of the CEF.		[Smith, Kevin; Burns, Con; O'Neill, Cian; Coughlan, Edward K.] Munster Technol Univ, Dept Sport Leisure & Childhood Studies, Rossa Ave, Cork T12 P928, Ireland; [Quinn, Noreen] Munster Technol Univ, Dept Math, Cork, Ireland; [Winkelman, Nick; Wilkie, Matthew] Irish Rugby Football Union, Dept Athlet Performance & Sci, Dublin, Ireland; [Smith, Kevin] Munster Technol Univ, Dept Sport Leisure & Childhood Studies, Rossa Ave, Cork T12 P928, Ireland								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001249306200001	66	Article; Article		
J	Gordillo-Rodriguez, Maria-Teresa; Marin-Montin, Joaquin; Gomez, Jorge David Fernandez								Sports celebrities and advertising on Instagram: a case study of brand sponsorship in Spain								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				25	4			862	894		10.1108/IJSMS-11-2023-0228			AUG 21 2024	2024	PurposeThe aim of this paper, which analyses the use of sports celebrities in advertising discourse, is to understand the strategic use to which brands put them in their commercial and corporate communication on Instagram.Design/methodology/approachTo this end, a content analysis was performed on the Instagram posts of the brands Santander, Movistar, Red Bull and Iberdrola during the period 2021-2022.FindingsThe results indicate that, strategically speaking, these brands use the celebrity endorsement strategy to pursue emotional objectives and to adopt a position depending on the type of user. Likewise, these findings show that they single out uniqueness as the principal celebrity characteristic, while also mainly leveraging sports values, especially competence. These values represented by sports celebrities are markedly social in nature, which implies that they enjoy a degree of public recognition that is transferred to the brand to which they lend their image.Research limitations/implicationsThe conclusions connect celebrity endorsers with strategic branding issues and aspects of sports.Originality/valueAn empirical approach is followed here to study the representation of sports celebrities in the advertising of well-known brands linked to the sports world.		[Gordillo-Rodriguez, Maria-Teresa; Marin-Montin, Joaquin; Gomez, Jorge David Fernandez] Univ Seville, Seville, Spain; [Gordillo-Rodriguez, Maria-Teresa] Univ Seville, Seville, Spain								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001239321200001	137	Article; Article		
J	Cao, Shun								Spatial partitioning of the football pitch based on successful passing paths								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	4			1688	1696		10.1177/17479541241254765			AUG 2024	2024	While it is evident that disparities exist across various areas on a football pitch, and numerous studies have investigated spatio-temporal datasets in football for various analyses, there remains a lack of an effective method for quantitatively partitioning the pitch into specific areas with different properties. To address this gap, this article presents a novel approach to partitioning a football pitch into distinct areas based on successful passing paths that lead to goals. Utilizing hierarchical clustering and spatial/temporal features derived from successful passing paths, the study provides multi-level partitions of the football pitch, revealing detailed insights into the relationships between specific areas and scored shots in football games. Empirical analysis of over 4000 successful passing paths from various football leagues and international football events demonstrates the effectiveness of the proposed methodology in identifying and understanding the diverse areas of football pitches. The findings suggest practical applications in football analysis, aiding coaches and specialists in tactics development and informing player positioning and movement strategies.		[Cao, Shun] Univ Houston, Informat Sci Technol, Houston, TX USA; [Cao, Shun] Univ Houston, Cullen Coll Engn, Informat Sci Technol, Engn Bldg 2,Room E421 4222 Martin Luther King Blvd, Houston, TX 77204 USA; [Cao, Shun] Univ Houston, Cullen Coll Engn, Informat Sci Technol, Engn Bldg 2,Room E421 4222 Martin Luther King Blvd, Houston, TX 77204 USA								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001242005100001	35	Article; Article		
J	Manca, A.; Meloni, M.; Ventura, L.; Consoli, G.; Fenu, S.; Mura, G.; Deriu, F.; Cugusi, L.								Dose-Response Effects on LBP, Sleep, and Depression of Online Pre-Partum and Post-Partum Pilates-Based Programs								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				95	4			853	862		10.1080/02701367.2024.2340047			OCT 1 2024	2024	Purpose: Pilates-based programs can help pregnant women deal with the physical and psychological burden derived by major changes in their body. This study was designed to primarily test, in pregnant women, the dose-response and health effects of both pre-partum and post-partum, online Pilates-based program on weight control, low back pain (LBP) severity, sleep disturbances, mood and depression levels. Methods: A total of 136 pregnant women were screened for eligibility (low-risk pregnancy; aged 18-45 years; single pregnancy; 20-28-week gestational age, normal BMI). Participants completed an online Pilates-based program during pregnancy and after delivery, through an online platform guided by a Pilates, Yoga and Lagree certified instructor. Main outcomes (weight control, LBP disability, sleep quality, mood, and mental health) were assessed at baseline and at the completion of pre- and post-partum programs. Results: Regarding pre-partum, significant gains in weight were observed only in low- and intermediate-amount exercisers. Only high-amount exercisers did not display significant increase in LBP-related disability (+42.7%; p = .21) unlike low (+12.2%; p < .0001) and intermediate exercisers (+9.6%; p < .0001). Sleep disturbances increased significantly in low- (+24.3%; p = .005) but not in intermediate- (+4.6%; p = .50) and high-amount exercisers (-0.1%; p = .91). Regardless of the amount of exercise, depression scores improved in all groups. Following post-partum intervention (n = 40), only intermediate-amount exercisers showed significant reductions in sleep disturbances (-24.1%; p = .003) and depression (15.9%; p = .04). Conclusions: Approximately 270 min/week of an online Pilates-based program were needed to prevent LBP worsening, and sleep deterioration in pregnant women. A different pattern was outlined for those women resuming the Pilates-based intervention at post-partum, with 150 min/week emerging as the "dose" of exercise capable of inducing the largest improvements in LBP, sleep, and mood disturbances.		[Manca, A.; Meloni, M.; Ventura, L.; Deriu, F.; Cugusi, L.] Univ Sassari, Dept Biomed Sci, Viale S Pietro 43B, I-07100 Sassari, Italy; [Consoli, G.; Fenu, S.] Ist Consalus, Pregnancy Shape, Cagliari, Italy; [Mura, G.] Ist Consalus, Cagliari, Italy; [Deriu, F.] AOU Sassari, Unit Endocrinol Nutr & Metab Disorders, Sassari, Italy; [Cugusi, L.] Univ Sassari, Dept Biomed Sci, Viale S Pietro 43B, I-07100 Sassari, Italy								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001243522000001	52	Article; Article		
J	Owen, Adam; Weston, Matthew; Clancy, Colin								Between-microcycle variability of external soccer training loads through the evaluation of a contemporary periodisation training model 'CUPs'								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	5			2067	2077		10.1177/17479541241251424			OCT 2024	2024	Objective: Variation in training load is consistently demonstrated within weekly microcycles in soccer, yet less is known of load variations between the same weekday sessions across different microcycles. Our study aim was to examine between-microcycle variability in key measures of external training load. Methods: Thirty-seven professional soccer players participated in this observational study which took place across the clubs' initial 8-week in-season mesocycle of the 2022/23 season. During this mesocycle, each 1-week microcycle consisted of four distinct classifications of training session (Matchday (MD)-4, MD-3, MD-2, and MD-1, and one match (Saturday). External load data (total distance, high-intensity (>5.5 m.s) distance, high-intensity accelerations (>3 m/s(2)), and percentage (%) of maximal speed attained) were collected across 564 training sessions (MD-4 = 123, MD-3 = 148, MD-2 = 130, MD-1 = 163). Data were analysed with mixed linear modelling. Results: When compared to the first microcycle, substantial week-to-week variation was evident for each of the four training session classifications, ranging from 1244 m to 2248 m for total distance, 80 m to 197 m for high-intensity distance, 11 to 25 for high-intensity accelerations, and 10.2 percentage points to 15.4 percentage points for % maximal speed. Conclusion: Our data show that despite training sessions having a consistency of planned training stimulus across an 8-week mesocycle, external load varied between microcycles. Nevertheless, within-player variability on the same day relative to matchday indicated a more consistent stimulus for key training variables relevant to specific training days.		[Owen, Adam] KKS Lech Poznan, Poznan, Poland; [Owen, Adam] Univ Claude Bernard Lyon, Univ Lyon, Villeurbanne, France; [Weston, Matthew] Univ Edinburgh, Moray House Sch Educ & Sport, Inst Sport Phys Educ & Hlth Sci, Edinburgh, Scotland; [Weston, Matthew] Manchester Metropolitan Univ, Inst Sport, Manchester, Lancs, England; [Clancy, Colin] Hibernian Football Club, Edinburgh, Midlothian, Scotland; [Clancy, Colin] Queen Margaret Univ, Musselburgh, Midlothian, Scotland; [Clancy, Colin] Queen Margaret Univ, Musselburgh, Midlothian, Scotland								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001240869700001	0	Article; Article		
J	Ben Chikha, Houssem; Mguidich, Hajer; Zoudji, Bachir; Khacharem, Aimen								Uncovering the roles of complexity and expertise in memorizing tactical movements from videos with coach's pointing gestures and guided gaze								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	5			1883	1896		10.1177/17479541241258708			OCT 2024	2024	Background Improving the acquisition of complex tactical knowledge through video presentations has attracted considerable attention. Previous research has aimed to facilitate learning by structuring videos including pointing gestures and guided gaze. However, it is debatable whether these cues actually contribute to improved performance in the context of tactical learning for players with varying levels of expertise.Objectives The present study examined the moderating roles of content complexity and expertise level on recall scores, mental effort, and visual attention while watching videos involving coach's pointing gestures and guided gaze, as well as videos with no cues.Methods One hundred sixty novice and expert basketball learners were randomly divided into four groups: (i) simple content + no-cues, (ii) simple content + gesture/gaze, (iii) more complex content + no-cues, and (iv) more complex content + gesture/cues. They were instructed to learn the evolution of a tactical scene described by the coach, rate their mental effort invested during the learning phase, and reproduce the learned tactical scene.Results and conclusions The results showed that regardless of the complexity of the content, novices achieved better recall performance and higher visual attention in the gesture/gaze condition than in the no-cues condition. However, the results showed that experts benefited equally from both conditions when the content was simple, whereas they benefited more from the gesture/gaze condition when the content was more complex. The results showed that the effectiveness of videos involving pointing gestures and guided gaze depends on the content complexity and the expertise level.		[Ben Chikha, Houssem; Mguidich, Hajer; Zoudji, Bachir] Univ Polytechn Hauts de France, LARSH Lab Rech Soc & Humanites, F-59313 Valenciennes, France; [Mguidich, Hajer; Zoudji, Bachir] INSA Hauts Defrance, LARSH, F-59313 Valenciennes, France; Nantes Univ, Movement Interact Performance MIP, UR 4334, Nantes, France; [Khacharem, Aimen] Paris East Creteil Univ, UFR SESS STAPS, LIRTES EA 7313, Creteil, France; [Ben Chikha, Houssem] Univ Polytech Hauts de France, F-59300 Valenciennes, France; [Ben Chikha, Houssem] Univ Polytech Hauts de France, F-59300 Valenciennes, France								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001239043000001	69	Article; Article		
J	Greenberg, Elliot M.; Bram, Joshua; DeFrancesco, Christopher J.; Landrum, Kevin; Stevens, Alexandra; Ganley, Theodore J.								Pattern of strength recovery differences Exist in Adolescent athletes after anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction when using quadriceps versus Hamstring tendon autograft								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				68				1	6		10.1016/j.ptsp.2024.05.005			JUL 2024	2024	Objectives: To compare the timeline for post-operative quadriceps and hamstrings strength recovery following anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction (ACLR) using either a quadriceps tendon (QT) or hamstring tendon (HT) autograft. Methods: Patients (<= 18 years) who underwent ACLR using autograft QT or HT were included. Isokinetic strength was extracted at 3, 6, and 12 months post-operatively. Effects of time and graft type on quadriceps or hamstring limb symmetry index (qLSI/hLSI) was assessed with two-way repeated measures ANOVA. Between group differences at each time point were assessed with unpaired t-tests. Chi-square and Kaplan-Meir analysis analyzed the proportions of subjects able to achieve >= 90% LSI. Results: A total of 75 subjects (QT n = 38 HT n = 37,15.8 years) were included. There were significant differences in qLSI, with greater symmetry within the HT group at all time points. A higher proportion of subjects with HT grafts were able to achieve >= 90% qLSI within 12 months of surgery (81% vs 45%, p = 0.001). Conclusion: Compared to those with HT autografts, adolescents with QT autografts demonstrate a prolonged timeline for quadriceps recovery. While mean strength values above 90% are achieved, a significantly lower percentage of QT patients are able to achieve 90% qLSI by 12 months post-op.		[Greenberg, Elliot M.; Ganley, Theodore J.] Childrens Hosp Philadelphia, Sports Med & Performance Ctr, Philadelphia, PA USA; [Bram, Joshua] Hosp Special Surg, Dept Orthopaed Surg, New York, NY USA; [Greenberg, Elliot M.; DeFrancesco, Christopher J.; Landrum, Kevin; Stevens, Alexandra; Ganley, Theodore J.] Univ Penn, Perelman Sch Med, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Philadelphia, PA USA; [Greenberg, Elliot M.] Childrens Hosp Philadelphia, Sports Med & Performance Ctr, 500 W Butler Ave, Chalfont, PA 18914 USA								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001258203600001	31	Article; Article		
J	Guppy, Stuart N.; Kendall, Kristina L.; Haff, G. Gregory								Velocity-Based Training-A Critical Review								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				46	3			295	307		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000806			JUN 2024	2024	Velocity-based training (VBT) is an increasingly popular programming strategy used by strength and conditioning professionals to develop their athlete's ability to express force rapidly. To implement the varying forms of VBT effectively within their training regimes, strength and conditioning professionals need to understand the strengths and weaknesses of strategies, such as predicting 1 repetition maximum using the load-velocity profile, modulating training loads using the load-velocity profile, and controlling training volume using the magnitude of velocity-loss. The aim of this review was to highlight these strengths and weaknesses and then provide practical examples of when each programming strategy may be most effectively implemented.		[Guppy, Stuart N.; Kendall, Kristina L.; Haff, G. Gregory] Edith Cowan Univ, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, Joondalup, Australia; [Haff, G. Gregory] Univ Salford, Sch Hlth & Soc, Salford, Greater Manches, England; [Guppy, Stuart N.] Edith Cowan Univ, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, Joondalup, Australia								20							Sport Sciences	WOS:001241136300001	137	Article; Article		
J	Ross, Steven; Comfort, Paul; Mcmahon, John								The Good Morning-Exercise Technique and Exercise Selection Principles								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				46	3			378	382		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000802			JUN 2024	2024	Supplemental Digital Content is Available in the Text. The good morning is a barbell exercise that can be used to develop muscular strength and hypertrophy in the posterior chain (i.e., hamstring muscles, gluteal muscles, spinal erectors, calf complex). The exercise uses a hip hinge motion with the barbell positioned across the upper trapezius, offering lifters an alternative to more common posterior chain exercises, such as the Romanian deadlift. The good morning may be particularly beneficial for lifters with lower levels of grip strength or upper-limb injury, which may prevent using a clean or opposing grip. This review describes exercise techniques and discusses some of the underpinning principles of the exercise and potential applications in training.Video Abstract-http://links.lww.com/SCJ/A393.		[Ross, Steven] Edge Hill Univ, Dept Sport & Phys Act, Ormskirk, England; [Ross, Steven; Comfort, Paul; Mcmahon, John] Univ Salford, Ctr Human Movement & Rehabil, Salford, England; [Comfort, Paul] Edith Cowan Univ, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, Joondalup, Australia; [Comfort, Paul] Leeds Beckett Univ, Inst Sport Phys Act & Leisure, Carnegie Sch Sport, Leeds, England; [Ross, Steven] Edge Hill Univ, Dept Sport & Phys Act, Ormskirk, England; [Ross, Steven] Univ Salford, Ctr Human Movement & Rehabil, Salford, England								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001241136300011	16	Article; Article		
J	Lockie, Robert G.; Dawes, J. Jay								Unique Strength and Conditioning Coach Considerations for First Responder Trainee Fitness Development								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				46	3			338	343		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000801			JUN 2024	2024	In recent years, many first responder (i.e., fire and police) organizations have had issues with recruitment. Changes to population demographics (e.g., reduced physical activity and increased obesity) have contributed to these recruitment challenges because more adults may not be fit enough to meet the minimum requirements for physically demanding occupations. Applicants to first responder job positions may solicit strength and conditioning coaches to help train them for entry fitness testing and academy training. Although the training principles for athletes have crossover to first responder trainees, several unique considerations must be understood by the coach so they can best prepare their trainee. This review will discuss some of the unique considerations for developing the physical fitness of first responder trainees. This includes understanding what entry fitness tests (if any) may be required and how this can vary across different organizations and states. The strength and conditioning coach should also understand how fitness training could be implemented at the training academy stage and what specific modalities may have a greater focus within their trainee's specific academy. The review will provide actionable information for the strength and conditioning coach who may have limited experience in the physical preparation of first responder trainees.		[Lockie, Robert G.] Calif State Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Fullerton, CA 92831 USA; [Dawes, J. Jay] Oklahoma State Univ, Sch Kinesiol Appl Hlth & Recreat, Stillwater, OK USA; [Dawes, J. Jay] Oklahoma State Univ, Tact Fitness & Nutr Lab, Stillwater, OK USA; [Lockie, Robert G.] Calif State Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Fullerton, CA 92831 USA								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:001241136300009	73	Article; Article		
J	Li, Xiaojian; Xue, Kun								Optimizing Short Sprint Interval Training for Young Soccer Players: Unveiling Optimal Rest Distributions to Maximize Physiological Adaptations								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				23	2			475	486		10.52082/jssm.2024.475			JUN 2024	2024	Present study aimed to compare the effects of SSIT intervention with varying rest distributions on hormonal, physiological, and performance adaptations in soccer players. Thirty-six players were randomly divided into three SSIT groups, each performing 4 sets of 6 - 10 repetitions of 6 -second all -out running with rest intervals at ratios of 1:3, 1:6, and 1:9. Prior to and following the 7-week training period, aerobic fitness indices and anaerobic power were evaluated using a graded exercise test with a gas collection system and a lower-body Wingate test, respectively. Also, sport-specific bio -motor abilities were determined by measuring vertical jump, 20-m sprint, and T -test change of direction speed, Yo-Yo IR1 and maximal kicking distance. Hormonal status was also monitored by evaluating testosterone and cortisol levels. Following the 7-week training period, all SSIT interventions resulted in significant enhancements (p < 0.05) in soccer-related performance, physiological parameters, and hormonal adaptations, exhibiting effect sizes that ranged from small to large. Comparative analysis indicated that the 1:9 SSIT results in greater adaptive responses (p < 0.05) in the vertical jump, peak power, testosterone, and cortisol compared to the 1:3 SSIT group. By contrast, the 1:3 SSIT group induced more adaptive responses (p < 0.05) in the mean power output, maximum oxygen consumption (V O 2max ), and Yo-Yo IR1 compared to the 1:9 SSIT group. Hence, for enhancing physical performance, especially vertical jump height, anaerobic peak power, and hormonal adaptations, the 1:9 SSIT ratio is preferable. Conversely, shorter rest intervals (specifically, the 1:3 SSIT ratio) are better suited for eliciting heightened adaptive responses in mean power output, V O 2max , and Yo-Yo IR1 over the 7-week training period among young male soccer players.		[Li, Xiaojian] Shandong Womens Univ, Sch Phys Educ, Jinan, Shandong, Peoples R China; [Xue, Kun] Shandong Med Coll, Dept Social Sci, Jinan 250002, Shandong, Peoples R China; [Li, Xiaojian] Shandong Womens Univ, Phys Educ Dept, Jinan 25300, Shandong, Peoples R China; [Li, Xiaojian] Shandong Womens Univ, Phys Educ Dept, Jinan 25300, Shandong, Peoples R China								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:001239071300001	51	Article; Article		
J	Kellis, Eleftherios; Kekelekis, Afxentios; Drakonaki, Eleni E.								Thoracolumbar Fascia and Lumbar Muscle Stiffness in Athletes with A History of Hamstring Injury								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				23	2			436	444		10.52082/jssm.2024.436			JUN 2024	2024	The purpose of this study was to examine the differences in thoracolumbar fascia (TLF) and lumbar muscle modulus in individuals with and without hamstring injury using shear wave elastography (SWE). Thirteen male soccer players without a previous hamstring injury and eleven players with a history of hamstring injury performed passive and active (submaximal) knee flexion efforts from 0 degrees, 45 degrees and 90 degrees angle of knee flexion as well as an active prone trunk extension test. The elastic modulus of the TLF, the erector spinae (ES) and the multifidus (MF) was measured using ultrasound SWE simultaneously with the surface electromyography (EMG) signal of the ES and MF. The TLF SWE modulus was significantly (p < 0.05) higher in the injured group (range: 29.86 +/- 8.58 to 66.57 +/- 11.71 kPa) than in the uninjured group (range: 17.47 +/- 9.37 to 47.03 +/- 16.04 kPa). The ES and MF modulus ranged from 14.97 +/- 4.10 to 66.57 +/- 11.71 kPa in the injured group and it was significantly (p < .05) greater compared to the uninjured group (range: 11.65 +/- 5.99 to 40.49 +/- 12.35 kPa). TLF modulus was greater than ES and MF modulus (p < 0.05). Active modulus was greater during the prone trunk extension test compared to the knee flexion tests and it was greater in the knee flexonly (p < 0.05). SWE modulus of the TLF and ES and MF was from sustaining a new injury.		[Kellis, Eleftherios; Kekelekis, Afxentios] Aristotle Univ Thessaloniki, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci Serres, Lab Neuromech, Thessaloniki, Greece; [Drakonaki, Eleni E.] Univ Crete, Med Sch, Dept Anat, Iraklion, Greece; [Kellis, Eleftherios] Aristotle Univ Thessaloniki, Lab Neuromech, TEFAA Serres, Serres 62100, Greece; [Kellis, Eleftherios] Aristotle Univ Thessaloniki, Lab Neuromech, TEFAA Serres, Serres 62100, Greece								7							Sport Sciences	WOS:001241639700015	40	Article; Article		
J	Guo, Kuo; Mu, Tianqi								Comparative Analysis of Adaptive Changes in Immunoendocrine and Physiological Responses to High-Intensity Sprint Interval Training with Progressive and Nonprogressive Loads in Young Wrestlers								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				23	2			455	464		10.52082/jssm.2024.455			JUN 2024	2024	The objective of this study was to explore the effects of a 7-week short sprint interval training (SSIT) with differing in programming volume-loads including progressive (P-SSIT) and nonprogressive (NP-SSIT) approaches on the immunoendocrine, physical fitness attributes and physiological parameters in male wrestlers during the pre-season. Thirty young freestyle wrestlers at the collegiate national-level were included in the study and were divided into three groups: P-SSIT (n = 10), NP-SSIT (n = 10), and an active control group (n = 10). The wrestlers engaged in their specific wrestling training three days weekly, while the P-SSIT and NP-SSIT groups underwent a 7-week SSIT, with scheduling in either progressed or nonprogressed volume-based overloads, three times per week. Before and after the intervention, various aspects of physical fitness (such as 20-m sprint, 4x9 -m shuttle run, and maximal strength) and physiological parameters (including cardiorespiratory fitness and anaerobic power output), as well as immunoendocrine responses (such as immunoglobulin-A, testosterone, and cortisol) were measured. Following the training intervention, the control group did not show any significant changes in the variable measured; however, both the P-SSIT and NP-SSIT groups experienced significant improvements (p = 0.001) in physical fitness attributes and physiological parameters with effect sizes ranging from small to very large, and also more adaptive responses compared with control group (p < 0.05). In addition, there were no statistically significant changes observed among the P-SSIT and NP-SSIT groups in terms of immunoendocrine response to training, and physical fitness, as well as physiological parameters (p > 0.05). In conclusion, neither the progressed nor nonprogressed approaches of SSIT demonstrated superior effects on adaptations compared to one another. Therefore, it is recommended for strength and conditioning coaches in wrestling to incorporate both P-SSIT and NP-SSIT into their annual training plan, especially during the pre-season phase, to maximize the physical fitness and physiological parameters of their wrestlers while minimizing changes in immunoendocrine responses.		[Guo, Kuo] Wuhan Sports Univ, Sch Wushu, Wuhan, Hubei, Peoples R China; [Mu, Tianqi] Zhejiang Police Coll, Police Command & Tact Dept, Hangzhou 310000, Zhejiang, Peoples R China; [Mu, Tianqi] Zhejiang Police Coll, Police Command & Tact Dept, Hangzhou 310000, Zhejiang, Peoples R China								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:001234925200001	41	Article; Article		
J	Dueking, Peter; Ruf, Ludwig; Altmann, Stefan; Thron, Maximiliane; Kunz, Philipp; Sperlich, Billy								Assessment of Maximum Oxygen Uptake in Elite Youth Soccer Players: A Comparative Analysis of Smartwatch Technology, Yoyo Intermittent Recovery Test 2, and Respiratory Gas Analysis								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				23	2			351	357		10.52082/jssm.2024.351			JUN 2024	2024	The maximum oxygen uptake (VO2max) is a critical factor for endurance performance in soccer. Novel wearable technology may allow frequent assessment of V O2max during non-fatiguing warmup runs of soccer players with minimal interference to soccer practice. The aim of this study was to assess the validity of VO2max provided by a consumer grade smartwatch (Garmin Forerunner 245, Garmin, Olathe, USA, Software:13.00) and the YoYo Intermittent Recovery Run 2 (YYIR2) by comparing it with respiratory gas analysis. 24 trained male youth soccer players performed different tests to assess VO2max: i) a treadmill test employing respiratory gas analysis, ii) YYIR2 and iii) during a non-fatiguing warm-up run of 10 min wearing a smartwatch as recommended by the device-manufacturer on 3 different days within 2 weeks. As the device-manufacturer indicates that validity of smartwatch-derived VO2max may differ with an increase in runs, 16 players performed a second run with the smartwatch to test this claim. The main evidence revealed that the smartwatch showed an ICC of 0.37 [95% CI: -0.25; 0.71] a mean absolute percentage error (MAPE) of 5.58% after one run, as well as an ICC of 0.54 [95% CI: -0.3; 8.4] and a MAPE of 1.06% after the second run with the smartwatch. The YYIR2 showed an ICC of 0.17 [95% CI: -5.7; 0.6]; and MAPE of 4.2%. When using the smartwatch for VO2max assessment in a non-fatiguing run as a warm-up, as suggested by the device manufacturer before soccer practice, the MAPE diminishes after two runs. Therefore, for more accurate VO2max assessment with the smartwatch, we recommend to perform at least two runs to reduce the MAPE and enhance the validity of the findings.		[Dueking, Peter] Tech Univ Carolo Wilhelmina Braunschweig, Dept Sports Sci & Movement Pedag, Braunschweig, Germany; [Ruf, Ludwig; Altmann, Stefan] TSG ResearchLab GGmbH, Zuzenhausen, Germany; [Altmann, Stefan; Thron, Maximiliane] Karlsruhe Inst Technol, Inst Sports & Sports Sci, Karlsruhe, Germany; [Kunz, Philipp; Sperlich, Billy] Univ Wurzburg, Dept Sport Sci, Integrat & Expt Exercise Sci, Wurzburg, Germany; [Dueking, Peter] Tech Univ Carolo Wilhelmina Braunschweig, Dept Sports Sci & Movement Pedag, Braunschweig, Germany								10							Sport Sciences	WOS:001227914000001	33	Article; Article		
J	Alizadeh, Shahab; Edwards, Philip F.; Lockyer, Evan J.; Holmes, Michael W. R.; Power, Kevin E.; Behm, David G.; Button, Duane C.								Neuromechanical Differences between Pronated and Supinated Forearm Positions during Upper-Body Wingate Tests								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				23	2			396	409		10.52082/jssm.2024.396			JUN 2024	2024	Arm-cycling is a versatile exercise modality with applications in both athletic enhancement and rehabilitation, yet the influence of forearm orientation remains understudied. Thus, this study aimed to investigate the impact of forearm position on upper-body arm-cycling Wingate tests. Fourteen adult males (27.3 +/- 5.8 years) underwent bilateral assessments of handgrip strength in standing and seated positions, followed by pronated and supinated forward arm-cycling Wingate tests. Electromyography (EMG) was recorded from five upper-extremity muscles, including anterior deltoid, triceps brachii lateral head, biceps brachii, latissimus dorsi, and brachioradialis. Simultaneously, bilateral normal and propulsion forces were measured at the pedal-crank interface. Rate of perceived exertion (RPE), power output, and fatigue index were recorded post-test. The results showed that a pronated forearm position provided significantly (p < 0.05) higher normal and propulsion forces and triceps brachii muscle activation patterns during arm-cycling. No significant difference in RPE was observed between forearm positions (p = 0.17). A positive correlation was found between seated handgrip strength and peak power output during the Wingate test while pronated (dominant: p = 0.01, r = 0.55; non-dominant: p = 0.03, r = 0.49) and supinated (dominant: p = 0.03, r = 0.51; don-dominant: p = 0.04, r = 0.47). Fatigue changed the force and EMG profile during the Wingate test. In conclusion, this study enhances our understanding of forearm position's impact on upper-body Wingate tests. These findings have implications for optimizing training and performance strategies in individuals using arm-cycling for athletic enhancement and rehabilitation.		[Alizadeh, Shahab; Edwards, Philip F.; Lockyer, Evan J.; Power, Kevin E.; Behm, David G.; Button, Duane C.] Mem Univ Newfoundland, Sch Human Kinet & Recreat, St John, NF, Canada; [Alizadeh, Shahab] Univ Calgary, Dept Kinesiol, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Holmes, Michael W. R.] Brock Univ, Dept Kinesiol, St Catharines, ON, Canada; [Lockyer, Evan J.; Power, Kevin E.; Button, Duane C.] Mem Univ Newfoundland, Fac Med, St John, NF, Canada; [Behm, David G.; Button, Duane C.] Mem Univ Newfoundland, Sch Human Kinet & Recreat, St John, NF, Canada; [Button, Duane C.] Mem Univ Newfoundland, Fac Med, St John, NF, Canada								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:001225775300001	39	Article; Article		
J	Lyu, Mengde; Chen, Zhili; Tang, Renhuan; Ding, Ling; Deng, Shengji; Adams, Roger; Han, Jia; Li, Yongming								Lateral Shuffle-Induced Fatigue Effects on Ankle Proprioception and Counter- movement Jump Performance								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				23	2			418	424		10.52082/jssm.2024.418			JUN 2024	2024	To determine how lateral shuffling/lateral shuffle (LS) -induced fatigue affects ankle proprioception and countermovement jump (CMJ) performance. Eighteen male college athletes performed 6 modes of a repeated LS protocol with 2 distances (2.5 and 5 m) and 3 speeds (1.6, 1.8, and 2.0 m/s). After LS, ankle inversion proprioception (AIP) was measured using the active movement extent discrimination apparatus (AMEDA). CMJ, blood lactate (BLa), heart rate (HR) and rating of perceived exertion (RPE) were measured before and after LS. The number of changes of direction (CODs) in each protocol was recorded. LS-induced fatigue was evident in BLa, HR and RPE (all p < 0.05), increasing with shorter shuffle distance and faster speed. RM-ANOVA showed a significant distance main effect on both AIP (p < 0.01) and CMJ (p < 0.05), but the speed main effect was only significant for CMJ (p <= 0.001), not AIP (p = 0.87). CMJ performance was correlated with BLa, HR and RPE (r values range from -0.62 to -0.32, all p <= 0.001). AIP was only correlated with CODs (r = -0.251, p < 0.01). These results suggested that in LS, shorter distance, regardless of speed, was associated with worse AIP, whereas subsequent CMJ performance was affected by both LS distance and speed. Hence, AIP performance was not related to physiological fatigue, but CMJ performance was. Results imply that LS affects processing proprioceptive input and producing muscular output differently, and that these two aspects of neuromuscular control are affected by physiological fatigue to varying degrees. These findings have implications for injury prevention and performance enhancement.		[Lyu, Mengde; Chen, Zhili; Tang, Renhuan; Deng, Shengji; Li, Yongming] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Athlet Performance, Changhai Rd 399, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Ding, Ling] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Phys Educ, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Adams, Roger; Han, Jia] Shanghai Univ Med & Hlth Sci, Coll Rehabil Sci, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Adams, Roger; Han, Jia] Univ Canberra, Res Inst Sport & Exercise, Bruce, Australia; [Li, Yongming] China Inst Sport Sci, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Li, Yongming] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Athlet Performance, Changhai Rd 399, Shanghai, Peoples R China								7							Sport Sciences	WOS:001225764700001	38	Article; Article		
J	Liu, GuiYang; Wang, XiaoShuang; Xu, Qi								Microdosing Plyometric Training Enhances Jumping Performance, Reactive Strength Index, and Acceleration among Youth Soccer Players: A Randomized Controlled Study Design								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				23	2			342	350		10.52082/jssm.2024.342			JUN 2024	2024	Microdosing can facilitate better accommodation to the training stimulus while aligning with the scheduling needs of teams. In this study, the effectiveness of microdosing exposure was investigated by comparing the effects of microdosing plyometric jump training (microPJT) with those of regular plyometric jump training (regPJT) and a control group not exposed to plyometric training. The comparison focused on the effects on jumping performance, reactive strength index (RSI), and acceleration over a 10-meter distance. Fifty-two male youth soccer players (16.3 +/- 0.6 years old) from under-17 teams participated in a randomized controlled study, with interventions lasting 8 weeks. Assessments were conducted twice, before and after the intervention, measuring squat jump (SJ), countermovement jump (CMJ), RSI during drop jumps, and acceleration in a 10-meter sprint test. The regPJT group completed 34 bilateral jumps and 48 unilateral jumps per week over two weekly sessions, totaling 82 jumps. Conversely, the microPJT group performed 17 bilateral jumps and 24 unilateral jumps weekly over 4 sessions week, totaling 41 jumps. Significant interactions between groups and time were observed concerning SJ (p < 0.001; eta(2)= 0.282), CMJ (p < 0.001; eta(2)= 0.368), RSI (p < 0.001; eta(2)= 0.400) and 10-m sprint time (p < 0.001; eta(2) = 0.317). Between-group analysis indicated that both the microPJT (p < 0.001) and regPJT (p < 0.001) groups exhibited significant better results compared to the control group in post-intervention evaluation of SJ, CMJ, RSI and 10-m sprint time, while no significant differences were found between experimental groups (p > 0.050). In conclusion, this study has revealed that both microPJT and regPJT are equally effective in enhancing jumping performance and acceleration time in soccer players. This suggests that a smaller training volume, distributed more frequently across the week, can effectively induce improvements in soccer players.		[Liu, GuiYang] Udon Thani Rajabhat Univ, Phys Educ & Hlth Educ, Udon Thani, Thailand; [Wang, XiaoShuang] Chizhou Univ, Coll Phys Educ, Chizhou, Anhui, Peoples R China; [Xu, Qi] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, Gdansk, Poland; [Wang, XiaoShuang] Chizhou Univ, Coll Phys Educ, Chizhou, Anhui, Peoples R China								21							Sport Sciences	WOS:001217418700001	35	Article; Article		
J	Makaje, Niromlee; Ruangthai, Ratree; Sae-tan, Sudathip								Effects of Omega-3 Supplementation on the Delayed Onset Muscle Soreness after Cycling High Intensity Interval Training in Overweight or Obese Males								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				23	2			317	325		10.52082/jssm.2024.317			JUN 2024	2024	People with overweight or obesity preferred high-intensity interval training (HIIT) due to the time-efficiency and pleasure. However, HIIT leads to delayed onset muscle soreness (DOMS). The present study aimed to investigate the effects of omega-3 supplementation on DOMS, muscle damage, and acute inflammatory markers induced by cycling HIIT in untrained males with overweight or obesity. A randomized, double-blinded study was used in the present study. Twenty-four males with a sedentary lifestyle were randomly assigned to either receive omega-3 (O3) (4 g fish oil) or placebo (Con). Subjects consumed the capsules for 4 weeks and performed cycling HIIT at the 4th week. After 4 weeksintervention, the omega-3 index of O3 group increased by 52.51% compared to the baseline. All subjects performed HIIT at 4th week. The plasma creatine kinase (CK) level of Con group increased throughout 48h after HIIT. While the CK level of O3 group increased only immediately and 24h after HIIT and decreased at 48h after HIIT. The white blood cell count (WBC) of Con group increased immediately after the HIIT, while O3 group did not show such increase. There was no change of CRP in both groups. O3 group had a higher reduction of calf pain score compared to Con group. O3 group also showed a recovery of leg strength faster than Con group. Omega-3 supplementation for 4 weeks lower increased CK level, reduced calf pain score, and recovery leg strength, DOMS markers after cycling HIIT.		[Makaje, Niromlee; Ruangthai, Ratree] Kasetsart Univ, Fac Sports Sci, Dept Sports Sci & Hlth, Bangkok, Thailand; [Sae-tan, Sudathip] Kasetsart Univ, Fac Agroind, Dept Food Sci & Technol, Bangkok, Thailand; [Sae-tan, Sudathip] 50 Ngamwongwan Rd, Chatuchak 10900, Bangkok, Thailand; [Sae-tan, Sudathip] 50 Ngamwongwan Rd, Chatuchak 10900, Bangkok, Thailand								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:001216606000001	50	Article; Article		
J	Friebe, David; Banzer, Winfried; Giesche, Florian; Haser, Christian; Huelsduenker, Thorben; Pfab, Florian; Russmann, Fritz; Sieland, Johanna; Spataro, Fabio; Vogt, Lutz								Effects of 6-Week Motor-Cognitive Agility Training on Football Test Perfor-mance in Adult Amateur Players - A Three-Armed Randomized Controlled Trial								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				23	2			276	288		10.52082/jssm.2024.276			JUN 2024	2024	Agility, defined as the ability to rapidly respond to unforeseen events, constitutes a central performance component in football. Existing agility training approaches often focus on change of direction that does not reflect the complex motor-cognitive demands on the pitch. The objective of this study is to examine the effects of a novel motor-cognitive dual-task agility training (Multiple-object tracking integrated into agility training) on agility and football-specific test performance parameters, compared to agility and a change of direction (COD) training. Adult male amateur football players (n = 42; age: 27 +/- 6; height: 181 +/- 7cm; weight: 80 +/- 12kg) were randomly allocated to one of the three intervention groups (COD, agility, agility + multiple object tracking). The Loughborough Soccer Passing Test (LSPT), a dribbling test with/without cognitive task as well as the Random Star Run (with/without ball) and the modified T -Test were assessed before and after a 6-week training period. Time effects within the T -Test (F = 83.9; p < 0.001; 112 = 0.68) and dribbling test without cognitive task (F = 23.9; p < 0.001; 112 = 0.38) with improvements of all intervention groups (p < 0.05) were found. Dribbling with cognitive task revealed a time effect (F = 7.8; p = 0.008; 112 = 0.17), with improvements exclusively in the agility and dual-task agility groups (p < 0.05). Random Star Run with and without ball exhibited a time (F = 38.8; p < 0.001; 112 = 0.5; F = 82.7; p < 0.001; 112 = 0.68) and interaction effect (F = 14.14; p < 0.001; 112 = 0.42; F = 27.8; p < 0.001; 112 = 0.59), with improvements for the agility and dual-task agility groups. LSPT showed no time, group or interaction effect. The effects of change of direction training are limited to change of direction and dribbling test performance within preplanned scenarios. In contrast, motor-cognitive agility interventions result in notable enhancements in football-specific and agility tests, incorporating decision-making and multitasking components. No differences were observed between agility and agility + multiple object tracking. To achieve a transfer to gamerelevant performance, coaches should focus on integrating cognitive challenges into motor training.		[Friebe, David; Banzer, Winfried; Giesche, Florian] Goethe Univ, Inst Occupat Social & Environm Med, Div Prevent & Sports Med, Frankfurt, Germany; [Russmann, Fritz; Spataro, Fabio; Vogt, Lutz] Goethe Univ Frankfurt Main, Dept Sports Med & Exercise Physiol, Frankfurt, Germany; [Huelsduenker, Thorben] LUNEX Int Univ Hlth Exercise & Sports, Dept Exercise & Sport Sci, Differdange, Luxembourg; [Huelsduenker, Thorben] Luxembourg Hlth & Sport Sci Res Inst LHSSRI, Differdange, Luxembourg; [Banzer, Winfried; Haser, Christian; Pfab, Florian; Sieland, Johanna] Med Dept Eintracht Frankfurt Soccer AG, Frankfurt, Germany; [Friebe, David] Goethe Univ Frankfurt Main, Theodor Stern Kai 7,Haus 9, D-60590 Frankfurt, Germany; [Friebe, David] Goethe Univ Frankfurt Main, Theodor Stern Kai 7,Haus 9, D-60590 Frankfurt, Germany								14							Sport Sciences	WOS:001185160000001	55	Article; Article		
J	Skuk, Neza; Chatzistergos, Panagiotis E.; Kozinc, Ziga								Reliability of enhanced paper grip test for testing foot strength in volleyball and soccer players								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				67				155	160		10.1016/j.ptsp.2024.05.004			MAY 2024	2024	Objectives: To evaluate the reliability of the Enhanced Paper Grip Test (EPGT) for assessing foot strength in volleyball and soccer players. Design: A cross-sectional observational study with repeated measurements. Setting: Field-based study. Participants: A convenience sample of 28 athletes (13 volleyball players and 15 soccer players) participated in the study. Main outcome measures: The main outcome measures were the intraclass correlation coefficients (ICC) for intravisit and inter-visit reliability, typical error, and coefficient of variation for the force (N) recorded in EPGT test. Results: The EPGT demonstrated good to excellent relative reliability (ICC values ranged from 0.93 to 0.97) and acceptable absolute reliability (typical error = 5-8 % of the mean). Significant inter-limb asymmetries were observed in both volleyball (16.0 +/- 10.2%) and soccer players (15.3 +/- 9.8%). Conclusions: The EPGT is a reliable tool for assessing foot strength in volleyball and soccer players. Further research is required to explore the applicability of EPGT in different athletic and clinical contexts, and its potential role in athletic performance and injury prevention.		[Skuk, Neza; Kozinc, Ziga] Univ Primorska, Fac Hlth Sci, Polje 42, SI-6310 Izola, Slovenia; [Chatzistergos, Panagiotis E.] Staffordshire Univ, Ctr Biomech & Rehabil Technol, Stoke On Trent, England; [Kozinc, Ziga] Univ Primorska, Fac Hlth Sci, Polje 42, SI-6310 Izola, Slovenia								2							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001249344100001	33	Article; Article		
J	Cunningham, George B.; Ko, Yong Jae								Diversity, equity and inclusion in the sport metaverse								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				26	2			279	291		10.1108/IJSMS-04-2023-0080			APR 22 2025	2025	PurposeThe purpose of this paper is to examine the relationships among diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI), sport and the metaverse.Design/methodology/approachThe authors overview the metaverse, sport applications and ways multilevel theory can help explain the influence of DEI.FindingsDrawing from multilevel theory, the authors identify parallels between the sport metaverse and traditional sport as well as unique DEI opportunities in the sport metaverse.Originality/valueThe manuscript contributes to the nascent body of research regarding sport and the metaverse, with a specific focus on social issues and the importance of considering unique DEI opportunities.		[Cunningham, George B.; Ko, Yong Jae] Univ Florida, Dept Sport Management, Gainesville, FL 32611 USA; [Cunningham, George B.] Univ Florida, Dept Sport Management, Gainesville, FL 32611 USA								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001229926100001	74	Article; Article		
J	Jacinto, Andre Luiz Braga; Praca, Gibson Moreira; Pinheiro, Guilherme de Sousa; da Costa, Varley Teoldo								Identification of indicators that predict victory in the five main CONMEBOL and UEFA leagues								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	5			2078	2089		10.1177/17479541241249475			OCT 2024	2024	This study identified which key performance indicators that predict the probability of winning are similar and specific for the top CONMEBOL and UEFA leagues. The analysis covered 12,289 games from the 2017/2018 to 2021/2022 seasons, excluding draws to focus on decisive results. Performance metrics were extracted using the InStat Scout (R) web platform, evaluating 55 offensive and defensive performance variables from the CONMEBOL and UEFA leagues. For data analysis, binary logistic regression was performed with the Forward Stepwise method. 14 similar predictive variables were identified between the CONMEBOL and UEFA leagues. We also identified 6 win-predictor variables specific to CONMEBOL, 2 win-predictor variables specific to UEFA, and 1 contextual variable that was predictive of victory for the CONMEBOL and UEFA leagues. The KPIs that are associated with an increased likelihood of winning games were identified. These include offensive actions, such as creating scoring chances, entering the final third of the opponent's field, shooting on goal, and being effective in counterattacks, converting penalties, and direct free kicks and making important passes and passes. For defensive actions, it was found that fouls, recoveries, possession interceptions, and low block defensive pressures are also associated with an increased likelihood of winning in the five main CONMEBOL and UEFA leagues. Particularly, for CONMEBOL leagues, counter-attacking actions, ball possession (%), free-kicks and efficiency for high pressing can also be associated with increased probability of winning. Specific to UEFA leagues, advancing actions down the left flanks and efficiency for team pressing are associated with increased probability of winning.		[Jacinto, Andre Luiz Braga; Praca, Gibson Moreira; Pinheiro, Guilherme de Sousa; da Costa, Varley Teoldo] Univ Fed Minas Gerais, UFMG Soccer Sci Ctr, Sports Dept, Belo Horizonte, Brazil; [Pinheiro, Guilherme de Sousa] Tech Univ Munich, Chair Performance Anal & Sports Informat, Munich, Germany; [Jacinto, Andre Luiz Braga] Ave Pres Antonio Carlos,6627-Pampulha, BR-31270901 Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil; [Jacinto, Andre Luiz Braga] Ave Pres Antonio Carlos,6627-Pampulha, BR-31270901 Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001233230500001	62	Article; Article		
J	Hausen, Matheus; Taylor, Lee; Bachini, Flavio; Freire, Raul; Pereira, Glauber; Itaborahy, Alex								Physical Capacities and Combat Performance Characteristics of Male and Female Olympic Boxers								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				95	4			813	823		10.1080/02701367.2024.2325683			OCT 1 2024	2024	Purpose: The study characterized the anthropometrical and cardiorespiratory profile, and the cardiorespiratory, bio-chemical and immunological responses to 3 x 3 min round (R) free-contact/combat boxing simulation, in elite Olympic Boxers (4 female and 10 male). Methods: The evaluation consisted of resting metabolic rate, anthropometric measurement, maximal graded test exercise (visit 1), free combat simulation (3 x 3 min R, 1 minute rest), and blood samples collected before, during and after the combat (visit 2). Results: Respectively, females and males had (mean +/- SD; or median: for non-parametric data) body fat percentage (17.2[3.5] and 4.6[0.8]%), predominantly mesomorphic somatotyping, and ${\dot{\rm V}}\rm {{\rm{O}}_{2MAX}}$V(center dot)O2MAX (50.0 +/- 2.5 and 56.2 +/- 5.2 ml.kg-1.min-1). The free combat simulation resulted in high cardiovascular strain [mean heart rate corresponding to R1: 92 +/- 3; R2: 94 +/- 2; and R3: 95 +/- 2% of maximal HR] and blood chemistry indicative of acidosis (following R3: 7.21 +/- 0.08 pH, bicarbonate 13.1 +/- 3.6 mmol.L-1, carbon dioxide 13.9 +/- 3.8 mmol.L-1, lactate 15.1 +/- 3.8 mmol.L-1, and glucose 8.4 +/- 1.3 mmol.L-1). Further, notable general catabolism, hematological and immune responses were evident post combat simulation (1-hour post R3: creatinine 95.2 +/- 14.5 mu mol.L-1, urea 6.4 +/- 1.3 mmol.L-1, white blood cell accumulation 7.8 +/- 2.6 x 109.L-1, hemoglobin 14.9 +/- 0.8 g.dL-1 and hematocrit 43.7 +/- 1.9%). Conclusions: Notable cardiovascular strain and acidosis are seen from the 3 x 3 free combat simulation whilst pronounced catabolism and immune responses are evident 1-hour post R3. This characterization is the first in male and female (who recently adopted the 3 x 3 min R format, as used by males) elite Olympic boxers and provides a characterization framework to assist practitioners and athletes in their attempts to deliver evidence-informed practice for specific conditioning session design.		[Hausen, Matheus; Bachini, Flavio; Freire, Raul; Itaborahy, Alex] Brazil Olymp Comm, Olymp Lab, Maria Lenk Aquat Ctr, Ave Embaixador Abelardo Bueno S-N, BR-22775040 Rio De Janeiro, Brazil; [Taylor, Lee] Loughborough Univ, Loughborough, Leics, England; [Taylor, Lee] UTS, Sydney, Australia; [Pereira, Glauber] Univ Estado Rio De Janeiro, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil; [Freire, Raul] Brazil Olymp Comm, Olymp Lab, Maria Lenk Aquat Ctr, Ave Embaixador Abelardo Bueno S-N, BR-22775040 Rio De Janeiro, Brazil								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001230563900001	37	Article; Article		
J	Donnelly, Julia; Macrae, Eilidh; Valentin, Stephanie; White, Andrew; Easton, Chris; Forrest (nee Whyte), Laura J.								Coaches' ability to support elite and adolescent soccer players throughout their menstrual cycle								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	5			1905	1915		10.1177/17479541241255280			OCT 2024	2024	Female soccer players report that the menstrual cycle (MC) can negatively impact sporting performance, with barriers identified in communicating their MC experiences to coaches and support staff. Whilst research is growing, there are few studies exploring the coaching staff perspective in soccer, and none from those at the youth level. The aim was to explore soccer coaches' awareness, perceptions and experiences of the MC and the perceived impact on performance. Thirteen coaches (female n = 4; male n = 9, aged 33 +/- 9 years) from Scottish elite adult and youth soccer participated in individual semi-structured interviews (average interview time 39 +/- 11 min). Interviews were audio recorded and transcribed verbatim, with reflexive thematic analysis (RTA) performed. RTA generated three key themes from 232 meaning units: environment and culture, coach-athlete dynamic, and coach support and education. Coaches perceived a societal culture of the MC being hidden, or taboo, with similar barriers noted within the club environment. Coaches were often embarrassed to discuss the MC with players and believed players were embarrassed. Communication differed depending on the coach-athlete relationship, with trust and familiarity cited as improving comfort in communication. Coach awareness and understanding of the MC both generally and within a sporting context influenced their perceived ability to communicate and support players. Findings highlight the need to support coaches by providing MC education, and practical guidance on how to support players' health and wellbeing. Improved confidence in communication should allow players to feel supported and normalise conversations about the MC.		[Donnelly, Julia; Macrae, Eilidh; Easton, Chris; Forrest (nee Whyte), Laura J.] Univ West Scotland, Sport & Phys Act Res Inst, Paisley G72 0LH, Lanark, Scotland; [Valentin, Stephanie] Edinburgh Napier Univ, Sch Hlth & Social Care, UK3, Edinburgh, Scotland; [White, Andrew] Athlete Focused, Glasgow, Scotland; [Forrest (nee Whyte), Laura J.] Univ West Scotland, Sport & Phys Act Res Inst, Paisley G72 0LH, Lanark, Scotland								12							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001229208300001	71	Article; Article		
J	Barlow, Lewis; Partington, Mark; Doncaster, Greg; O'Gorman, Jimmy; Nelson, Lee								The strategic delivery of video-based coaching: A season-long investigation in one English youth soccer academy								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	5			1897	1904		10.1177/17479541241256492			OCT 2024	2024	This article presents the findings of a season-long investigation of video-based coaching (VBC) practices in an English youth soccer academy. During the period of fieldwork, the lead author immersed themselves within the academy setting, in which they observed 22 VBC sessions and also day-to-day interactions between coaching staff relating to these activities. In addition, 18 interviews were conducted with 5 coaching staff, totalling 8 h of in-depth interview data. The fieldnotes and interview transcripts were iteratively analysed, utilising Goffman's dramaturgical writings and Groom et al.'s grounded theory of VBC. Our analysis produced two overarching themes. These were (a) how the coaching staff concealed that VBC sessions were principally designed to develop 'high priority' players and (b) how the coaching staff purposefully withheld critical thoughts and feelings about their player's performances, preferring instead to strategically focus on the provision of positive messages during VBC sessions. These findings contribute to the limited investigation of this aspect of coaching and demonstrate the importance of educating coaches to acknowledge how VBC can be influenced by and used to respond to workplace demands and expectations.		[Barlow, Lewis; Partington, Mark; Doncaster, Greg; O'Gorman, Jimmy; Nelson, Lee] Edge Hill Univ, Dept Sport & Phys Act, Ormskirk, England; [Partington, Mark] Edge Hill Univ, Dept Sport & Phys Act, Ormskirk, England								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001228847200001	27	Article; Article		
J	Yang, Yiqi; Macintosh, Eric; Xing, Xiaoyan								Examining the relationship among constraints, facilitators and ski participation in the host city of the 2022 Winter Olympics								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				25	4			802	821		10.1108/IJSMS-10-2023-0218			AUG 21 2024	2024	PurposeThe study's purpose is to investigate the constraints and facilitators influencing skiing participation in Beijing. This research includes three segments based on the frequency of skiing participation (i.e. non-, low-frequency-, and high-frequency skiers). By doing so, the study offers an enhanced understanding of the Chinese skiing market and unveils insights assisting industry professionals to effectively address their customers' diverse needs and expectations.Design/methodology/approachAn online survey was developed based on prior research and consisted of four sections: (1) skiing participation; (2) constraints; (3) facilitators; (4) demographics. Items in the constraint and facilitator scale were measured using a 7-point Likert scale. A total of 409 participants completed the survey. The participants included 137 non-skiers, 134 low-frequency skiers, and 138 high-frequency skiers.FindingsThrough an exploratory factor analysis, three constructs emerged: general constraints, facilitators and learning constraints. As expected, facilitators were a positive predictor of skiing participation. Importantly, the emergent construct of learning constraints was a negative predictor of skiing and yet, the construct of general constraints was insignificant. Furthermore, the three segments differ significantly in household status, income, and education level.Originality/valueThese results support previous research noting the relevance in skiing participation of the dimensions: facilitators and learning constraints. The findings point to the need for ski resorts in Beijing to offer instructional sessions for beginners so they may become familiar with skiing fundamentals and enhance their confidence, particularly among nonskiers and low-frequency skiers.		[Yang, Yiqi; Macintosh, Eric] Univ Ottawa, Fac Hlth Sci, Sch Human Kinet, Ottawa, ON, Canada; [Xing, Xiaoyan] Capital Univ Phys Educ & Sports, Sch Sport Management & Commun, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Yang, Yiqi] Univ Ottawa, Fac Hlth Sci, Sch Human Kinet, Ottawa, ON, Canada								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001226891500001	66	Article; Article		
J	Zheng, Longzhao; Xu, Ying								Exploring the impact of athlete brand image on fans' behavioural outcomes: the role of emotional attachment and perceived price value								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				25	4			839	861		10.1108/IJSMS-01-2024-0030			AUG 21 2024	2024	PurposeThis study aims to explore the impact of athlete brand image on fans' social media engagement, purchase intentions, and also examines the mediating role of emotional attachment on these relationships, as well as the moderating role of perceived price value between emotional attachment and purchase intentions.Design/methodology/approachThe data are based on an online survey conducted in China (N = 572). The PLS-SEM (partial least squares structural equation model) and regression-based estimation method (PROCESS) are employed to test the hypotheses.FindingsThe results indicate a positive relationship between athletes' athletic performance and fans' social media engagement as well as purchase intentions. The impact of athletes' attractive appearance and marketable lifestyle on fans' purchase intentions is sequentially mediated by emotional attachment and social media engagement. Moreover, the mediation effect of athletes' off-field image and purchase intentions is contingent upon fans' perceived price value.Research limitations/implicationsAthletes and marketers could integrate and leverage both the on-field and off-field attributes to cultivate emotional connections with fans. Sports organizations and managers need to pay attention to fans' social media engagement and provide content that increases engagement and converts into transactional behavioural intentions.Originality/valueThe study provides empirical evidence of the mediating role of emotional attachment between athlete brand image and fans' purchase intentions. The explanatory mechanisms involving emotional attachment and social media engagement (non-transactional behavioural intentions) are anticipated to be a noteworthy addition to the traditional fan transactional behavioural intentions framework. Moreover, the research introduces and confirms perceived price value as a crucial moderating factor influencing the relationship between emotional attachment and purchase intentions.		[Zheng, Longzhao] Xiamen Univ, Sch Journalism & Commun, Xiamen, Peoples R China; [Xu, Ying] Minnan Normal Univ, Sch Journalism & Commun, Zhangzhou, Peoples R China; [Zheng, Longzhao] Xiamen Univ, Sch Journalism & Commun, Xiamen, Peoples R China								15							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001224627100001	74	Article; Article		
J	Moran, Jason; Raga, Victor Cervera; Jones, Benjamin; Tallent, Jamie; Howe, Louis; Clemente, Filipe Manuel; Arede, Jorge; Freeman, Paul								The identification and development of young talent in Spanish soccer academies: A 10-year multi-study follow-up								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	5			1984	1994		10.1177/17479541241254767			OCT 2024	2024	The nurturing of young players in youth academies is seen as an important step on the way to becoming a full professional in the sport of soccer. This longitudinal multi-study investigation, spanning 2009 to 2021, analysed the career paths of Spanish academy soccer players. It consisted of three studies investigating players' transition from academy to professional status and the identification of technical skills and psychological traits which could distinguish future professionals from amateurs. The sample involved 198 male academy soccer players (aged 13.5-17.9) from two Madrid-based professional clubs. Study 1 assessed the outcomes of these players a decade after their academy-level evaluations. Studies 2 and 3 focused on the subgroup of 85 players whose playing status could be verified a decade later. Results showed that 12 players (6.1%) progressed to full-time professional soccer. Of these 12, just 7 reached Spain's highest professional league within 10 years of their final academy tests. Significant differences favouring professional players were observed in the trait of 'self-confidence', 'ball reception', 'dribbling forward with the ball' and coaches' global technical assessments. In conclusion, the chances of academy soccer players achieving professional status are low. Accordingly, providing more developmental opportunities before deselection is crucial to maximise player potential. Coaches could prioritise players' self-confidence and ball control to increase the conversion rate of academy players to professional status. Furthermore, recruitment of players who are already strong in these attributes could also improve the productivity of talent development pipelines.		[Moran, Jason; Jones, Benjamin; Tallent, Jamie; Howe, Louis; Freeman, Paul] Univ Essex, Sch Sport Rehabil Exercise Sci, Colchester, England; [Raga, Victor Cervera] Lab Ejercicio, Dept Sports, Oviedo, Spain; [Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Inst Politecn Viana Do Castelo, Viana Do Castelo, Portugal; [Arede, Jorge] Univ Tras Os Montes & Alto Douro, Dept Sports Exercise & Hlth Sci, Santander Cantabria, Portugal; [Moran, Jason] Univ Essex, Sch Sport Rehabil Exercise Sci, Colchester, England								8							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001228123200001	45	Article; Article		
J	Paul, Yannik; Mathes, Justus; Brinkjans, David; Maurus, Esther; Memmert, Daniel								Is Thomas Tuchel wrong? Evaluation of hexagonal shaped drills based on machine learning and position data								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	4			1697	1705		10.1177/17479541241255596			AUG 2024	2024	As a variation of small-sided games (SSGs), Thomas Tuchel's hexagonal shaped possession drills attracted a lot of attention in coaches' soccer education. Changing certain variables (e.g. pitch size) is one traditional approach to provide an optimal stimulus for a specific training goal. Therefore, the presented field study investigated whether hexagonal shaped drills show changes in tactical key performance indicators (KPIs) using positional data in a controlled experimental setting. Data were collected using player tracking systems (1 Hz) in 5 versus 5 SSGs in both the full-size pitch and pitch with cut-off corners condition. At match-related level, trial duration and outcome were examined. At player-related level, the tactical KPIs effective playing space (EPS), length-per-width ratio, space control and overplayed defenders were analyzed. The results show significant differences in length-per-width ratio (attacking team), the EPS and space control (30m-zone). However, it could not be confirmed that hexagonal shaped drills are played more vertically and faster toward the goal than on a normal pitch, as there were no changes in trial duration, outcome or overplayed defenders. Nevertheless, an experimental positional data analysis paradigm is a useful approach to investigate tactical principles in high-level professional soccer.		[Paul, Yannik; Mathes, Justus; Brinkjans, David; Maurus, Esther; Memmert, Daniel] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Exercise Training & Sport Informat, Sportpark Mungersdorf 6, D-50933 Cologne, Germany; [Paul, Yannik] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Exercise Training & Sport Informat, Sportpark Mungersdorf 6, D-50933 Cologne, Germany								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001228130600001	36	Article; Article		
J	Brunetti, Claudia; Rabello, Rodrigo; Poletti, Nicholas; Bertozzi, Filippo; Sforza, Chiarella								Statistical Parametric Mapping to detect the effects of the secondary jump direction on landing kinematics								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	6			1739	1752		10.1080/14763141.2024.2354422			JUN 3 2025	2025	Anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) injuries in sports often occur with non-contact mechanisms, such as landing and cutting. Previous studies explored the ACL injury biomechanical risk factors through drop-jumps combined with secondary jumps. This study aimed to investigate the effect of the secondary jump direction on first landing kinematic temporal series. Fifty-seven participants (29 males, 28 females) performed three single-leg drop-jumps followed by secondary jumps in vertical (single-planar), 45 degrees-medial and 45 degrees-lateral direction (multi-planar). Lower limb and trunk landing kinematics was recorded using a 9-camera motion capture system and analysed with a One-way ANOVA through Statistical Parametric Mapping (SPM), from initial contact to maximum knee flexion. All variables were affected by the secondary jump direction, except trunk rotation. In sagittal plane, kinematic main differences were found between single- and multi-planar tasks. The latter elicited higher trunk, hip, and knee flexion. Frontal plane kinematics was more influenced by medio-lateral components of secondary jumps. Our results could underline how a single task may be insufficient for ACL injury risk assessment. Single- and multi-planar tasks including a secondary jump should be considered for more comprehensive evaluations in prevention and rehabilitation programs, but caution should be used when comparing results of studies adopting different tasks.		[Brunetti, Claudia; Rabello, Rodrigo; Poletti, Nicholas; Sforza, Chiarella] Univ Milan, Dept Biomed Sci Hlth, Milan, Italy; [Bertozzi, Filippo] Politecn Milan, E4Sport Lab, Lecce, Italy; [Brunetti, Claudia] Univ Milan, Dept Biomed Sci Hlth, Milan, Italy								3							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001223877700001	47	Article; Article		
J	Welling, Wouter								Return to sports after an ACL reconstruction in 2024-A glass half full? A narrative review								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				67				141	148		10.1016/j.ptsp.2024.05.001			MAY 2024	2024	A successful return to sports (RTS) after an anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction (ACLR) is multifactorial, and therefore difficult and challenging. Unfortunately, low percentages of patients RTS, and for those who succeed, one-fifth of patients will sustain a second ACL injury. Over the past years, test batteries were developed to assess whether patients can RTS with a low risk for a second ACL injury risk. Low rates of patients who meet RTS criteria were found, coupled with the insufficiency of current RTS test batteries in predicting second ACL injuries suggesting poor sensitivity. The result of an RTS test is likely to reflect the content of a rehabilitation program, raising critical questions regarding what we are offering patients within the rehabilitation programme. Are we preparing our patients well enough for the high demands of complex situations within pivoting team sports? This narrative review offers insights from key lessons of the last 15 years on 1) RTS testing, 2) the content of rehabilitation, and 3) the RTS continuum, all from a "helicopter perspective".		[Welling, Wouter] Prof Fysiotherapie, Kotkampweg 65, NL-7531 AS Enschede, Netherlands; [Welling, Wouter] Univ Groningen, Univ Med Ctr Groningen, Ctr Human Movement Sci, A Deusinglaan 1, NL-9713 AV Groningen, Netherlands; [Welling, Wouter] Prof Fysiotherapie, Kotkampweg 65, NL-7531 AS Enschede, Netherlands; [Welling, Wouter] Univ Groningen, Univ Med Ctr Groningen, Ctr Human Movement Sci, A Deusinglaan 1, NL-9713 AV Groningen, Netherlands								17							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001266682700001	111	Article; Article		
J	Schiffner, Erik; Hilsmann, Falk; Lakomek, Felix; Beyersdorf, Christoph; Windolf, Joachim; Latz, David								Degenerative changes of the wrist in mixed martial arts and boxing based on the three column theory								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				53	1			7	11		10.1080/00913847.2024.2351357			JAN 2 2025	2025	Objective: Mixed Martial Arts (MMA) is a relatively young combat sport. In contrast to classic boxing, MMA combines techniques of grappling and striking. However, characteristic long-term effects of MMA on the wrist are discussed controversially. Aim of this study was to elucidate characteristic degenerative changes of the wrist from MMA fighters in comparison to classic boxers. Methods: In this study, eleven professional MMA fighters and ten professional boxers with chronic wrist pain were examined and compared. Age, weight, number of fights and weekly hours of training were recorded. Wrist and hand of each fighter were examined using a 3T-MR scanner. Degenerations of the radial, central and ulnar column were analyzed according to Navarro's three-column theory and degenerative changes were categorized based on the classification of Fredericson. Results: There was no significant difference of age, weight and number of fights between MMA fighters and boxers (p > 0.15). However, MMA fighters practiced significantly more hours per week (19.5 (MMA) vs. 8.5 (boxing) hours/week, p < 0.001). No significant associations were found between different training times per Week in terms of degenerative changes of the wrist in MMA and boxing based on the three column theory. The comparison of degenerative changes in the columns between MMA and boxing showed no significant differences. The MRI showed a significantly higher degeneration in the radial column compared to the central column among MMA fighters for ligaments (p = 0.01) and bones (p = 0.03). Conclusion: Due to different fighting techniques, different physical traumas, including falls, pattern of degenerations of the wrist between MMA fighters and boxers are different. MMA fighters suffer of a highly degenerative radial column and boxers suffer of a homogeneous degeneration of all three columns.		[Schiffner, Erik; Hilsmann, Falk; Lakomek, Felix; Beyersdorf, Christoph; Windolf, Joachim; Latz, David] Univ Hosp, Dept Orthoped & Trauma Surg, Moorenstr 5, D-40225 Dusseldorf, Germany; [Hilsmann, Falk] Univ Hosp, Dept Orthoped & Trauma Surg, Moorenstr 5, D-40225 Dusseldorf, Germany								1							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001221573300001	42	Article; Article		
J	Chiu, Weisheng; Won, Doyeon; Bae, Jung-sup								Symmetric and asymmetric modeling to examine individuals' intention to follow fitness YouTube channels: an integrated perspective of the UTAUT2 and UGT								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				25	4			777	801		10.1108/IJSMS-12-2023-0242			AUG 21 2024	2024	PurposeThe current study aims to explore the determinants of user intentions towards fitness YouTube channels, employing the Unified Theory of Acceptance and Use of Technology 2 (UTAUT2) and Uses and Gratifications Theory (UGT) as theoretical frameworks.Design/methodology/approachSymmetric and asymmetric analyses were employed for data analysis, utilizing partial least squares-structural equation modeling (PLS-SEM) for symmetric analysis and fuzzy-set qualitative comparative analysis (fsQCA) for asymmetric analysis.FindingsThe study revealed significant impacts of most UTAUT2 determinants and all UGT determinants on user intentions. Additionally, the fsQCA results supported the concept of equifinality, indicating that various configurations of causal combinations can predict a high level of behavioral intention. These findings underscore the significance of comprehending user motivations and factors related to technology and social media in the context of maintaining or increasing followership and viewership for fitness content providers.Originality/valueThe findings suggest that individuals with high expectations and facilitating conditions, as per UTAUT, and heightened hedonic and socializing motivations, in line with UGT, are more inclined to follow fitness YouTube channels. This study offers valuable insights for fitness content creators and marketers navigating the complexities of the digital age.		[Chiu, Weisheng] Hong Kong Metropolitan Univ, Lee Shau Kee Sch Business & Adm, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [Won, Doyeon] Texas A&M Univ, Corpus Christi, TX USA; [Bae, Jung-sup] Konkuk Univ, Glocal Campus, Chungju, South Korea; [Bae, Jung-sup] Konkuk Univ, Glocal Campus, Chungju, South Korea								15							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001214290700001	85	Article; Article		
J	Tsordia, Charitomeni; Lianopoulos, Yannis; Dalakas, Vassilis; Theodorakis, Nicholas D.								From love to betrayal? When your team's sponsor decides to also sponsor your rival								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				25	4			757	776		10.1108/IJSMS-10-2023-0211			AUG 21 2024	2024	PurposeThe aim of this research was to investigate fans' responses toward a sponsor that has had a long-standing sponsorship deal with a club and decided also to sponsor the club's rival.Design/methodology/approachA long-term sponsorship deal between a retsina wine company and a popular football club and a newly established deal between the company and the main rival club were selected as the research setting. Data were collected from a total sample of 302 participants, fans of the two teams, using an online survey and PLS-SEM was employed to test the relationships of the proposed structural model.FindingsThe results provided evidence for the importance of the inclusion of perceptions of fit for both teams to the model as it impacted the responses in the joint sponsorship. Team identification emerged significant for improving fans perceptions of fit between the sponsor and their favorite club but also led fans of the long-term sponsored club to feel betrayed from the sponsor. The sense of betrayal impacted the level of fit, the rejection of sponsorship but did not emerge significant for driving negative responses toward the sponsor's brand. The same held for the rejection of the joint sponsorship.Originality/valueThis is the very first study that incorporated the effects of the perceptions of fit of two rival clubs to test the effect of sponsorship for a sponsor brand of a deal that includes a longtime sponsored football club and its rival as a newly sponsored one. It is also one of the first attempts that explores relationships between perceptions of fit, sense of betrayal and rejection of a joint sport sponsorship in a rivalry context, highlighting the importance of preventing fans' betrayal.		[Tsordia, Charitomeni] Univ Patras, Dept Business Adm, Patras, Greece; [Tsordia, Charitomeni] Amer Coll Greece, Sch Business & Econ, Dept Tourism Hospitality & Sports, Athens, Greece; [Lianopoulos, Yannis; Theodorakis, Nicholas D.] Aristotle Univ Thessaloniki, Sch Phys Educ & Sport Sci Serres, Thessaloniki, Greece; [Dalakas, Vassilis] Calif State Univ San Marcos, San Marcos, CA USA; [Tsordia, Charitomeni] Univ Patras, Dept Business Adm, Patras, Greece; [Tsordia, Charitomeni] Amer Coll Greece, Sch Business & Econ, Dept Tourism Hospitality & Sports, Athens, Greece								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001216022000001	52	Article; Article		
J	Henz, Julian; Sanchez, Xavier; Memmert, Daniel; Medernach, Jerry Prosper								Profiling of expert bouldering routesetters								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	5			2190	2198		10.1177/17479541241248583			OCT 2024	2024	Introduction Bouldering is an Olympic discipline that takes place on low-height climbing structures known as boulders. Routesetters play a critical role in bouldering; they design and set boulders to be climbed, which must be original, safe to climb and adapted to climbers' levels. Considering the critical role routesetters play to keep the present success and ensure the future development of bouldering, the purpose of this study was to profile expert routesetters by identifying relevant key skills they possess and examining specific strategies they use when designing boulders.Methods Seventy-eight expert routesetters completed an online survey structured in eight sections that assessed the following: perceptual-cognitive skills; soft skills; motor skills; climbing skills; welfare; safety and difficulty; climbing holds and wall features; and climbing movement diversity and boulder styles.Results Among fundamental skills experts identified, most relevant to routesetters were possessing a broad climbing movement repertoire, the ability to develop several climbing strategies for one boulder, forecasting of climbing movements, climbing-specific decision-making and creativity, self-reflection, teamwork, dealing with negative feedback, technical skills and general fitness. Furthermore, most relevant specific routesetter skills and strategies appeared to encompass the ability to design boulders that account for climbers' skill levels and safety, to adapt to the constraints of climbing gyms, to make optimal use of climbing wall features and to design versatile climbing movements.Conclusion The expert routesetters' profile comprises fundamental and specific skills and strategies that enable them to design target-oriented boulders with versatile climbing movements for different levels whilst accounting for climbers' welfare.		[Henz, Julian; Memmert, Daniel; Medernach, Jerry Prosper] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Exercise Training & Sport Informat, D-50933 Cologne, Germany; [Sanchez, Xavier] Univ Orleans, CIAMS, Orleans, France; [Sanchez, Xavier] Univ Paris Saclay, CIAMS, Orsay, France; [Sanchez, Xavier] Univ Orleans, SAPReM, Orleans, France; [Medernach, Jerry Prosper] Minist Sport, Natl Inst Phys Act & Sports, Luxembourg, Luxembourg; [Medernach, Jerry Prosper] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Exercise Training & Sport Informat, D-50933 Cologne, Germany								8							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001215152100001	28	Article; Article		
J	Ogata, Yuta; Soejima, Takashi; Hara, Kenji; Takahata, Hiromi; Ando, Yu; Yamashita, Akihiro; Yamada, Mutsuo; Murakami, Hidetaka; Maeda, Akira								Effects of tackle height and shoulder preference on head and trunk acceleration in rugby								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	5			2103	2109		10.1177/17479541241252967			OCT 2024	2024	Background Most rugby injuries occur during tackles, therefore investigating safe tackling techniques is essential. Objectives To determine the effects of different tackle heights and shoulder preference on head and trunk acceleration. Methods Thirty-nine rugby players belonging to university leagues, adult leagues, and adult leagues, tackled a stationary tackle bag under three height conditions (high, middle, and low) with a dominant shoulder and a non-dominant shoulder. We calculated the peak head and trunk accelerations (PhA and PtA, respectively) during the tackles and evaluated the difference in accelerations by the tackle height and side. Results The PhA (26.1 g (17.1) g) during the tackles was significantly higher than the PtA (11.7(7.2) g, p < 0.01). The PhA was significantly larger in the high (27.4 (19.4) g) and middle (27.7 (17.0) g) tackles compared to the low (23.4 (14.6) g) tackle (high vs low: p < 0.01; middle vs low: p < 0.01). The PhA was significantly lower during the dominant shoulder side (23.0 (13.7) g) tackles than during the non-dominant shoulder side (30.4 (21.3) g) tackles (p < 0.01). Conclusion The results suggest that coaching strategies and policies aimed at reducing tackler height and improving tackle technique on the non-dominant shoulder would help reduce head acceleration forces.		[Ogata, Yuta] Kurume Univ, Div Rehabil, Med Ctr, 155-1 Kokubumachi, Kurume, Fukuoka 8390863, Japan; [Ogata, Yuta] Kurume Univ, Sch Med, Grad Sch Med, Kurume, Japan; [Soejima, Takashi; Hara, Kenji; Maeda, Akira] Kurume Univ, Fac Human Hlth, Dept Sports Med & Sci, Kurume, Japan; [Takahata, Hiromi] Japan Sports Agcy, Competit Sports Div, Tokyo, Japan; [Ando, Yu; Murakami, Hidetaka] Murakami Surg Hosp, Tagawa, Japan; [Yamashita, Akihiro] Kurume Univ, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Med Ctr, Kurume, Japan; [Yamada, Mutsuo] Ryutsu Keizai Univ, Fac Hlth & Sport Sci, Ryugasaki, Japan; [Maeda, Akira] Hakata Knee & Sports Clin, Fukuoka, Japan; [Ogata, Yuta] Kurume Univ, Div Rehabil, Med Ctr, 155-1 Kokubumachi, Kurume, Fukuoka 8390863, Japan								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001214499100001	31	Article; Article		
J	Mizoguchi, Yasuaki; Suzuki, Kenta; Shimada, Naoki; Naka, Hiroyuki; Hall, Toby; Akasaka, Kiyokazu								Prevalence and associated factors of non-traumatic knee pain in high school volleyball players: a cross-sectional study								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				52	6			614	620		10.1080/00913847.2024.2348439			NOV 1 2024	2024	ObjectivesThis study aimed to determine the prevalence of knee pain among high school volleyball attackers, identify associated factors, and explore the relationship between knee pain and lower back pain (LBP).MethodsA cross-sectional study involving 82 high school volleyball attackers (15-17 years) used questionnaires, interviews, and field-based assessments to collect data on demographics, volleyball-specific factors, flexibility, and jumping ability. Logistic regression analysis was used to identify factors associated with knee pain.ResultsThe prevalence of knee pain was 19.5%. Factors significantly associated with knee pain were a history of LBP (OR, 4.64; 95% CI, 1.28 to 16.8; p = 0.019) and flexibility determined by the absolute difference in heel-buttock distance (OR, 1.37; 95% CI, 1.02 to 1.83; p = 0.037). Participants with knee pain had more volleyball experience and a higher proportion of players who competed as starters in the previous year. Both groups reported approximately 18 hours of practice per week during the school year and around 27 hours during school holidays, with no significant difference observed.ConclusionFactors associated with knee pain include a history of LBP and reduced flexibility on the heel-buttock distance test. The study highlights the need for a comprehensive approach, considering the coexistence of LBP and focusing on improving anterior thigh flexibility.		[Mizoguchi, Yasuaki; Akasaka, Kiyokazu] Saitama Med Univ, Grad Sch Med, 981 Kawakado, Iruma, Saitama 3500436, Japan; [Mizoguchi, Yasuaki; Suzuki, Kenta] Kimura Orthopaed Clin, Dept Rehabil, Saitama, Japan; [Shimada, Naoki] Kurando Orthopaed Clin, Dept Rehabil, Saitama, Japan; [Naka, Hiroyuki] Saitama Med Univ Hosp, Dept Rehabil, Saitama, Japan; [Hall, Toby] Curtin Univ, Curtin Sch Allied Hlth, Perth, Australia; [Akasaka, Kiyokazu] Saitama Med Univ, Grad Sch Med, 981 Kawakado, Iruma, Saitama 3500436, Japan								2							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001217294800001	40	Article; Article		
J	Tondelli, Eduardo; Feroldi, Alejo; Garcia, Felipe; Meza, Franco; Dingenen, Bart								Rehabilitation and return-to-sport after anterior cruciate ligament injury and reconstruction: Exploring physical therapists' approaches in Argentina								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				67				131	140		10.1016/j.ptsp.2024.04.007			MAY 2024	2024	Objectives: To investigate the current clinical practice regarding pre- and post-surgical rehabilitation and return to sport (RTS) criteria following anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction (ACLR). Design: Cross-sectional design. Online survey. Setting: Survey platform. Participants: Argentinian physical therapists (PTs). Outcome measures: The survey consisted of a combination of 39 open- and closed-ended questions, divided across 3 sections: (1) demographic and professional information, (2) clinical practice and rehabilitation strategies, and (3) return-to-running (RTR) and RTS. Results: A total of 619 PTs completed the survey. Considerable variability was observed in preoperative rehabilitation, criteria used for rehabilitation progression and RTS decision-making criteria used by PTs. From the total surveyed, 336 (54.3%) carried out RTS assessment in their clinical practice. Most of PTs (53.3%) use visual estimation to assess knee range of motion. Only 20% of the PTs reported incorporating patient-reported outcome measures in their decision-making. From PTs who use strength assessment as a criterion of RTS (68.8%), 16.6% extrapolate this from jump tests and 15.3% use manual muscle testing. Less than the 50% of the PTs recommended nine months or more to allow patients to RTS. Conclusions: Current rehabilitation practices of Argentinian PTs following ACLR are largely variable and not aligned with current evidence and scientific guidelines. To achieve better rehabilitation and RTS practices better knowledge dissemination and implementation are required.		[Tondelli, Eduardo] Pontifical Catholic Univ Argentina, Fac Med Sci, Sport Physiotherapy, Buenos Aires, Argentina; [Tondelli, Eduardo; Feroldi, Alejo; Garcia, Felipe; Meza, Franco] Univ Buenos Aires, Fac Med Sci, Sch Physiotherapy, Sport Physiotherapy CPC, Buenos Aires, Argentina; [Feroldi, Alejo] Favaloro Univ, Fac Med Sci, Funct Anat & Biomech, Buenos Aires, Argentina; [Garcia, Felipe] New Performance Argentina Athlet Ctr, Buenos Aires, Argentina; [Meza, Franco] Club Atletico Huracan, Phys Therapy & Med Dept, Buenos Aires, Argentina; [Dingenen, Bart] Hasselt Univ, Fac Rehabil Sci, REVAL Rehabil Res Ctr, Diepenbeek, Belgium; [Tondelli, Eduardo] Pontifical Catholic Univ Argentina, Fac Med Sci, Sport Physiotherapy, Buenos Aires, Argentina; [Tondelli, Eduardo] Univ Buenos Aires, Fac Med Sci, Sch Physiotherapy, Sport Physiotherapy CPC, Buenos Aires, Argentina								4							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001238663600001	57	Article; Article		
J	Aras, Bulent; Ozel, Meltem								Qatar Airways-FC Barcelona sponsorship deal: a catalyst of sports diplomacy?								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				25	4			732	756		10.1108/IJSMS-09-2023-0192			AUG 21 2024	2024	PurposeThe purpose of this study is to evaluate how Qatar Airways' sponsorship of FC Barcelona affects Qatar's sports diplomacy and brand awareness. It focuses on the sponsorship's demand strategy and takes into account the opinions and attitudes of Spanish nationals toward Qatar and Qatar Airways.Design/methodology/approach To assess this, a survey of 434 Spanish nationals from 17 different regions from four zones (North, South, Center, and East) in Spain between November 3, 2022 and November 21, 2022 was conducted using a strata sampling method.FindingsWe argue that Qatar Airways' sponsorship of FC Barcelona serves to improve Qatar's recognition and national reputation in Spain. We also found that there is a need for consistent sponsorship and marketing efforts in sports diplomacy to better fulfill public diplomacy aims. Overall, this paper concludes that Qatar Airways' sponsorship of FC Barcelona positively contributes to the country's sports diplomacy despite significant challenges.Originality/valueThe major contribution of this study to the literature is the discussion of the role of sports sponsorships in the recognition of the sponsor, which was assessed through conducting a quantitative analysis of public opinion in the sponsored team's host country.		[Aras, Bulent] Ctr Int Policy Res, Doha, Qatar; [Ozel, Meltem] Adiyaman Univ, Adiyaman, Turkiye; [Ozel, Meltem] Adiyaman Univ, Adiyaman, Turkiye								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001208430200001	71	Article; Article		
J	Considine, John; Eakins, John; Horgan, Peter; Weir, Conor								Compensating Tendencies in Disciplinary Sanctions: The Case of Hurling								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				25	6			659	682		10.1177/15270025241245640			AUG 2024	2024	This paper investigates the presence of compensating tendencies in the awarding of free shots in hurling. Probit models are estimated to examine whether free shots awarded are determined by the score margin, net free count, and net card count at the time. In addition, the effect of large attendances and home games on these compensating tendencies is captured using interaction effects. Clear evidence of compensating tendency effects if the team is behind on the score margin or behind on the free count are found. When the game is played in front of large attendances, compensating tendencies based on the score margin are amplified. In contrast, there is no evidence of a home team bias in compensating tendencies based on the subset of games played at nonneutral venues. Although efforts should be made to minimize the compensating tendencies identified, administrators should tread carefully because the direction of the compensating tendencies are procompetition.		[Considine, John; Eakins, John] Cork Univ, Univ Coll Cork, Dept Econ, Business Sch, Cork, Ireland; [Horgan, Peter; Weir, Conor] Gael Athlet Assoc, Dublin, Ireland; [Eakins, John] Cork Univ, Univ Coll Cork, Dept Econ, Business Sch, Cork, Ireland								4							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001209394200001	32	Article; Article		
J	Obana, Kyle K.; Law, Christian; Mastroianni, Michael A.; Abdelaziz, Abed; Alexander, Frank J.; Ahmad, Christopher S.; Trofa, David P.								Patients With Posterior Cruciate Ligament Injuries Obtain Information Regarding Diagnosis, Management, and Recovery from Low-Quality Online Resources								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				52	6			601	607		10.1080/00913847.2024.2346462			NOV 1 2024	2024	ObjectivesThis study investigates the most common online patient questions pertaining to posterior cruciate ligament (PCL) injuries and the quality of the websites providing information.MethodsFour PCL search queries were entered into the Google Web Search. Questions under the 'People also ask' tab were expanded in order and 100 results for each query were included (400 total). Questions were categorized based on Rothwell's Classification of Questions (Fact, Policy, Value). Websites were categorized by source (Academic, Commercial, Government, Medical Practice, Single Surgeon Personal, Social Media). Website quality was evaluated based on the Journal of the American Medical Association (JAMA) Benchmark Criteria. Pearson's chi-squared was used to assess categorical data. Cohen's kappa was used to assess inter-rater reliability.ResultsMost questions fell into the Rothwell Fact category (54.3%). The most common question topics were Diagnosis/Evaluation (18.0%), Indications/Management (15.5%), and Timeline of Recovery (15.3%). The least common question topics were Technical Details of Procedure (1.5%), Cost (0.5%), and Longevity (0.5%). The most common websites were Medical Practice (31.8%) and Commercial (24.3%), while the least common were Government (8.5%) and Social Media (1.5%). The average JAMA score for websites was 1.49 +/- 1.36. Government websites had the highest JAMA score (3.00 +/- 1.26) and constituted 42.5% of all websites with a score of 4/4. Comparatively, Single Surgeon Personal websites had the lowest JAMA score (0.76 +/- 0.87, range [0-2]). PubMed articles constituted 70.6% (24/34) of Government websites, 70.8% (17/24) had a JAMA score of 4 and 20.8% (5/24) had a score of 3.ConclusionPatients search the internet for information regarding diagnosis, treatment, and recovery of PCL injuries and are less interested in the details of the procedure, cost, and longevity of treatment. The low JAMA score reflects the heterogenous quality and transparency of online information. Physicians can use this information to help guide patient expectations pre- and post-operatively.		[Obana, Kyle K.; Law, Christian; Mastroianni, Michael A.; Abdelaziz, Abed; Alexander, Frank J.; Ahmad, Christopher S.; Trofa, David P.] Columbia Univ, New York Presbyterian Hosp, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Irving Med Ctr, 622 West 168th St,PH-11, New York, NY 10032 USA; [Obana, Kyle K.] Columbia Univ, New York Presbyterian Hosp, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Irving Med Ctr, 622 West 168th St,PH-11, New York, NY 10032 USA								0							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001209167000001	38	Article; Article		
J	Gyimesi, Andras								Competitive Balance in the Post-2024 Champions League and the European Super League: A Simulation Study								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				25	6			707	734		10.1177/15270025241249362			AUG 2024	2024	The proposal of the European Super League and the 2024/25 reform of the UEFA Champions League are both major events in European club football. This study compares the competitive balance (CB) of these new tournament formats with the previous Champions League format. Short-, mid- and long-term CB are quantified by measuring the average uncertainty of match outcomes, the ratio of stakeless matches, and the recurrence ratio of teams in knockout rounds. A simulation method is applied using the teams, their seeding, and Elo ratings in the 2020/21 and 2021/22 Champions League seasons. Results suggest that the 2024/25 reform improves CB, especially in match uncertainty and the occurrence of stakeless matches. In comparison, the Star League of the European Super League concept of December 2023 is superior concerning average match uncertainty. However, it has a worse CB regarding stakeless matches and dynamic CB. Reasons and suggestions for improvement are also discussed.		[Gyimesi, Andras] Univ Pecs, Fac Business & Econ, Rakoczi U 80, H-7622 Pecs, Hungary; [Gyimesi, Andras] Inst Comp Sci & Control, Res Grp Operat Res & Dec Syst, Budapest, Hungary; [Gyimesi, Andras] Univ Pecs, Fac Business & Econ, Rakoczi U 80, H-7622 Pecs, Hungary								14							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001207994600001	52	Article; Article		
J	Roberts, Jeremy; Wilson, Julie C.; Halstead, Mark E.; Miller, Shane M.; Santana, Jonathan A.; McLeod, Tamara C. Valovich; Zaslow, Tracy L.; Master, Christina L.; Grady, Matthew F.; Snedden, Traci R.; Fazekas, Matthew L.; Coel, Rachel A.; Howell, David R.								Variables associated with days of school missed following concussion: results from the Sport Concussion Outcomes in PEdiatrics (SCOPE) study								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				52	6			592	600		10.1080/00913847.2024.2344435			NOV 1 2024	2024	Objective: To understand factors associated with missed academic time after concussion to improve support for patients. Our goal was to assess patient-specific predictors of total school time lost after pediatric/adolescent concussion. Study Design: We performed a prospective cohort study of children and adolescents (8-18 years of age) seen within 14 days of concussion from seven pediatric medical centers across the United States. We collected outcomes via the Concussion Learning Assessment & School Survey (CLASS) and constructed a multivariable predictive model evaluating patient factors associated with school time loss. Results: 167 patients participated (mean age = 14.5 +/- 2.2 years; 46% female). Patients were assessed initially at 5.0 +/- 3.0 days post-injury and had a final follow-up assessment 24.5 +/- 20.0 days post-concussion. Participants missed a median of 2 days of school (IQR = 0.5-4), and 21% reported their grades dropped after concussion. Higher initial symptom severity rating (beta = 0.06, 95% CI = 0.03-0.08, p < 0.001) and perception of grades dropping after concussion (beta = 1.37, 95% CI = 0.28-2.45, p = 0.01) were significantly associated with more days of school time missed after concussion. Those who reported their grades dropping reported missing significantly more school (mean = 5.0, SD = 4.7 days missed of school) than those who reported their grades did not drop (mean = 2.2, SD = 2.6 days missed of school; p < 0.001; Cohen's d = 0.87). Conclusions: Children and adolescents reported missing a median of 2 days of school following concussion, and more missed school time after a concussion was associated with more severe concussion symptoms and perception of grades dropping. These findings may support recommendations for minimal delays in return-to-learn after concussion.		[Roberts, Jeremy; Wilson, Julie C.; Howell, David R.] Childrens Hosp Colorado, Sports Med Ctr, Aurora, CO USA; [Roberts, Jeremy; Wilson, Julie C.; Howell, David R.] Univ Colorado, Sch Med, Aurora, CO USA; [Halstead, Mark E.] St Louis Childrens Hosp, Dept Orthoped, Sch Med, St Louis, MO USA; [Halstead, Mark E.] St Louis Childrens Hosp, Sch Med, Dept Pediat, St Louis, MO USA; [Halstead, Mark E.] Washington Univ, Sch Med, St Louis, MO USA; [Miller, Shane M.] Scottish Rite Children, Dallas, TX USA; [Miller, Shane M.] UT Southwestern Med Ctr Dallas, Dallas, TX USA; [Santana, Jonathan A.] Childrens Hosp Los Angeles, Los Angeles, CA USA; [Santana, Jonathan A.] USC, Keck Sch Med, Los Angeles, CA USA; [McLeod, Tamara C. Valovich] AT Still Univ, Athlet Training Program, Mesa, AZ USA; [Zaslow, Tracy L.] Cedars Sinai Kerlan Jobe Inst, Los Angeles, CA USA; [Master, Christina L.; Grady, Matthew F.] Childrens Hosp Philadelphia, Ctr Injury Res & Prevent, Philadelphia, PA 19104 USA; [Master, Christina L.; Grady, Matthew F.] Univ Penn, Perelman Sch Med, Philadelphia, PA USA; [Snedden, Traci R.] Univ Wisconsin Madison, Sch Nursing, Madison, WI USA; [Fazekas, Matthew L.] Joe DiMaggio Childrens Hosp, Hollywood, FL USA; [Coel, Rachel A.] Univ Hawaii, Kapiolani Med Ctr Women & Children, John A Burns Sch Med, Honolulu, HI USA; [Howell, David R.] Univ Colorado, Childrens Hosp Colorado, Sports Med Ctr, Sch Med,Dept Orthoped, 13123 E 16th Ave,B060, Aurora, CO 80045 USA								3							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001206896700001	59	Article; Article		
J	Mori, Kanji; North, Taylor D.; Cheng, Kai-Jen; Baek, Seungho; Alvis, Hunter B.; Kwon, Young-Hoo								Effects of two-step golf swing drills on rhythm and clubhead speed in competitive juniors								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	6			1678	1692		10.1080/14763141.2024.2336946			JUN 3 2025	2025	Vertical and horizontal rhythms are crucial aspects of a dynamic golf swing, and the two-step swing drills (TSSD) were specifically designed to promote rhythmic unloading and loading of the legs. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effects of a TSSD training session on the swing rhythm and clubhead speed (CHS) among competitive junior golfers (3.1 +/- 4.4 hcp). The driver swings (7 swings each) of 10 competitive junior golfers (aged 15-18) were captured before and after a TSSD session consisting of four stages (lasting less than 45 minutes). Post-TSSD training, there were significant increases in CHS (p < .001), maximum unweighting (p = .006), the trail-side push (p = .009), the horizontal motion ranges of the body and pelvis (p = .005-.031), the upward/downward motion range of the body in the backswing (p = .042/.024), and the backswing/downswing angular velocity peaks of the axle-chain system (p < .033). The stepping-like leg actions primarily facilitated horizontal motion rhythm over vertical motion and unweighting over push in terms of ground interaction. These findings suggest that TSSD can serve as an effective method for developing a rhythmic and dynamic motion pattern while increasing CHS.		[Mori, Kanji; North, Taylor D.; Cheng, Kai-Jen; Baek, Seungho; Alvis, Hunter B.; Kwon, Young-Hoo] Texas Womans Univ, Biomech & Motor Behav Lab, Denton, TX 76204 USA; [Kwon, Young-Hoo] Texas Womans Univ, Biomech & Motor Behav Lab, Denton, TX 76204 USA								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001204001700001	37	Article; Article		
J	Shimizu, Fumiya; Konaka, Eiji								Scoring probability model based on service landing location and ranking points in men's professional tennis matches								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	6			2561	2573		10.1177/17479541241246184			DEC 2024	2024	Service is regarded as the most crucial shot in tennis matches, and hence affects the outcome. This study aims to construct a mathematical model that expresses the scoring probability of service shots. Here, "scoring" means that the server wins points in subsequent rallies after a service. The explanatory variables are the service landing location and the ranking points of the players (logarithms of ranking points for the two players). The model construction method is a stepwise regression of the generalized linear model. The model is constructed using more than 110,000 service shots from Association of Tennis Professionals Tour tournaments of 2019. The model comprises four service situations: first/second and ad/deuce sides. The developed model reveals the following facts: in the first service, advantageous locations for the servers are not symmetric between the advantage and deuce sides. Higher-ranked players can win more points than lower-ranked players even if their shots land in easy locations, that is, in the middle of the service court.		[Shimizu, Fumiya; Konaka, Eiji] Meijo Univ, Tempaku Campus, Nagoya, Japan; [Konaka, Eiji] Meijo Univ, Dept Informat Engn, Tempaku Campus,1-501 Shiogamaguchi,Tempaku Ku, Nagoya 4688502, Japan; [Konaka, Eiji] Meijo Univ, Dept Informat Engn, Tempaku Campus,1-501 Shiogamaguchi,Tempaku Ku, Nagoya 4688502, Japan								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001201445500001	14	Article; Article		
J	Fari, Giacomo; Quarta, Francesco; Longo, Sara Clelia; Masiero, Laura; Ricci, Vincenzo; Coraci, Daniele; Caforio, Laura; Megna, Marisa; Ranieri, Maurizio; Varrassi, Giustino; Bernetti, Andrea								How does classification score affect falls in wheelchair basketball? A video-based cross-sectional study on the Italian national team during the European Para Championships 2023								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				67				77	82		10.1016/j.ptsp.2024.03.006			MAY 2024	2024	Objectives: The aim of this study was to investigate the mechanism of falls in male elite wheelchair basketball (WB) players and to analyse the falls characteristics considering their classification score which ranges from 1.0 to 4.5 and it is related to their functional capacity and particularly to their volume of action. Design: A cross-sectional video analysis was conducted using European para championships 2023official match videos. Setting: Players of the sample team were divided into 2 groups according to their classification point: low -point players (LPP) and high -point players (HPP). Every occurred fall was systematically analysed focusing on falling related characteristics and game circumstances. Participants: Twelve WB players of the Italian national team. Main outcome: Number of falls and mechanism of falls. Results: The results showed a higher number of falls for HPP and highlighted a statistically significant differences between LPP and HPP for the fall direction, the playing time and the first anatomical site in contact with the floor. Conclusion: Results reported significant differences between LPP and HPP in terms of mechanism of fall. Further studies should focus on the development of new preventive training strategies tailored to WB players with different levels of impairments to reduce fall related injuries.		[Fari, Giacomo; Quarta, Francesco; Bernetti, Andrea] Univ Salento, Dept Biol & Environm Sci & Technol DiSTeBA, Lecce, Italy; [Fari, Giacomo] Italian Wheelchair Basketball Federat, FIPIC, Rome, Italy; [Longo, Sara Clelia] Univ Catania, Dept Biomed & Biotechnol Sci, Sect Pharmacol, Catania, Italy; [Masiero, Laura] Univ Padua, Dept Stat Sci, Padua, Italy; [Ricci, Vincenzo] Ist Ricovero & Cura Carattere Sci, Rizzoli Orthoped Inst, Dept Biomed & Neuromotor Sci, Phys & Rehabil Med Unit, Bologna, Italy; [Coraci, Daniele] Univ Padua, Dept Neurosci, Sect Rehabil, Padua, Italy; [Caforio, Laura; Megna, Marisa; Ranieri, Maurizio] Aldo Moro Univ, Dept Translat Biomed & Neurosci DiBraiN, Bari, Italy; [Varrassi, Giustino] Paolo Procacci Fdn, Dept Pain Med, Rome, Italy; [Fari, Giacomo] Univ Salento, Dept Biol & Environm Sci & Technol DiSTeBA, Lecce, Italy								4							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001230523700001	37	Article; Article		
J	Grayson, Jane; Hillard, David; Antcliff, Alanna; Chan, Cliffton; Nightingale, Elizabeth; Pappas, Evangelos								The effect of the KNEE program for Netball players on the modified Star Excursion Balance Test - a randomized controlled trial								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				67				83	89		10.1016/j.ptsp.2024.03.004			MAY 2024	2024	Background: The aim was to investigate the effect of the KNEE program on postural control as measured by the modified Star Excursion Balance test (mSEBT) in Australian club level netball players. Methods: Two netball teams from Netball NSW Premier-League were recruited and randomized to complete either the KNEE program or a traditional warm-up. Cumulative, anterior, posteromedial, and posterolateral directions of the mSEBT were measured for both limbs at baseline, 8-weeks, and 5-months. Linear mixed models were used to assess the effect of the intervention on mSEBT outcomes. Results: When compared to a traditional warm-up, the KNEE program led to improvements in postural control in the PM direction of the mSEBT at 8 weeks (R: p = 0.005; L = 0.016) and 5 months (R: p = 0.006 and L: p = 0.026). For the cumulative score, there was a main effect of time with significant improvements between baseline and subsequent time points (p < 0.03), but there was no effect of group or interaction. No significant changes were found in ANT and PL directions. Conclusion: The KNEE program when implemented as a warm-up prior to training and match -play can improve postural control in the PM direction which is integral to Netball.		[Grayson, Jane; Nightingale, Elizabeth; Pappas, Evangelos] Univ Sydney, Fac Med & Hlth, Sch Hlth Sci, Discipline Physiotherapy, Camperdown, NSW, Australia; [Hillard, David] Zone 34 Sports Physiotherapy, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Antcliff, Alanna] Australian Sports Commiss, Netball Australia, Melbourne, Australia; [Chan, Cliffton] Univ Sydney, Fac Med & Hlth, Sch Med Sci, Camperdown, NSW, Australia; [Chan, Cliffton] Macquarie Univ, Fac Med Hlth & Human Sci, Dept Hlth Sci, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Chan, Cliffton] Univ Wollongong, Sch Med, Wollongong, NSW, Australia; [Pappas, Evangelos] Univ Wollongong, Illawarra Med & Hlth Res Inst, Wollongong, NSW, Australia; [Grayson, Jane] Univ Sydney, Discipline Physiotherapy Susan Wakil Hlth Bldg, Western Ave, Camperdown, NSW 2050, Australia; [Grayson, Jane] Univ Sydney, Discipline Physiotherapy Susan Wakil Hlth Bldg, Western Ave, Camperdown, NSW 2050, Australia								2							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001236039000001	41	Article; Article		
J	Xu, Yiwen; Wang, Ying; Yang, Yang								The Impact of Air Pollution on Game Outcome								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				25	5			557	582		10.1177/15270025241245649			JUN 2024	2024	Although air pollution is an important practical and theoretical issue, the impact of air pollution on game outcomes has not yet been comprehensively investigated. Therefore, by using data from the Chinese Football Association Super League, this study examined the impact of the Air Quality Index and six major air pollutants on game outcomes. Results show that air pollution is negatively and significantly related to game outcomes and is heterogeneous between home teams and away teams. The results extend the knowledge of air pollution studies and sports studies and provide insights into both environmental regulations and sports markets.		[Xu, Yiwen; Wang, Ying] Sichuan Univ, Business Sch, Chengdu, Peoples R China; [Yang, Yang] Sichuan Univ, Coll Hist & Culture Tourism, Chengdu, Peoples R China; [Wang, Ying] Sichuan Univ, Business Sch, 24 South Sect,1 Yihuan Rd, Chengdu 610065, Peoples R China; [Wang, Ying] Sichuan Univ, Business Sch, 24 South Sect,1 Yihuan Rd, Chengdu 610065, Peoples R China								5							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001199572100001	77	Article; Article		
J	Vianna, Karoline Baptista; Ribas, Leticia Oscar; Rodrigues, Livia Goncalves; Gasparin, Gabriela Bissani; Mendonca, Luciana De Michelis; Baroni, Bruno Manfredini								Injury prevention in Brazilian women's football: Perceptions of physiotherapists and practices within elite clubs								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				67				68	76		10.1016/j.ptsp.2024.04.001			MAY 2024	2024	Objectives: To describe the perceptions of physiotherapists and the injury prevention practices implemented within elite women's football clubs in Brazil. Design: Cross-sectional study. Setting: Online survey. Participants: Head physiotherapists from 32 Brazilian elite clubs. Main outcome measures: Structured questionnaire. Results: Physiotherapists identified ACL rupture as the primary target for prevention. The top -five perceived injury risk factors included 'early return to sport after injury ' , 'workload too high ' , 'previous injury ' , 'poor sleep/rest ' , and 'muscle strength/power deficit ' . 'Adoption of return to sport criteria ' was almost unanimously recognized as a very important preventive strategy. 'Poor infrastructure ' was elected as the main barrier to implementing prevention programs. From a practical standpoint, at least two -third of clubs implemented multi -component exercise interventions for injury prevention. These interventions typically encompassed flexibility/mobility, balance/ proprioception, lumbo-pelvic stability, and agility exercises, alongside exposure to sprinting. Strength training routines typically included traditional, functional, and eccentric exercises. Most teams also employed other prevention strategies, including adoption of return to sport criteria, internal workload monitoring, post -exercise recovery modalities, preseason risk factor screening, and application of rigid strapping tapes. Conclusions: This study provided unprecedented insights into the physiotherapists' perceptions and injury prevention practices implemented within elite women's football clubs.		[Vianna, Karoline Baptista; Ribas, Leticia Oscar; Rodrigues, Livia Goncalves; Gasparin, Gabriela Bissani; Baroni, Bruno Manfredini] Fed Univ Hlth Sci Porto Alegre UFCSPA, Sarmento Leite St 245-Postal Code, BR-90050170 Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil; [Mendonca, Luciana De Michelis] Fed Univ Minas Gerais UFMG, Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil; [Baroni, Bruno Manfredini] Fed Univ Hlth Sci Porto Alegre UFCSPA, Sarmento Leite St 245-Postal Code, BR-90050170 Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil								5							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001230025400001	52	Article; Article		
J	Kember, Lucy S.; Myer, Gregory D.; Lloyd, Rhodri S.								Interlimb kinetic asymmetries during the tuck jump assessment are more exposed following kinetic stabilization								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				67				61	67		10.1016/j.ptsp.2024.03.002			MAY 2024	2024	Objective: To analyse interlimb kinetics and asymmetries during the tuck jump assessment (TJA), before and after kinetic stabilization, to identify injury risk in healthy female athletes. Design: Cross-sectional study. Setting: Laboratory. Participants: Twenty-five healthy females (age 21.0 +/- 1.83 yrs; height 1.68 +/- 0.06 m; body mass 69.4 +/- 10.7 kg). Main outcome measures: Kinetics were measured during 10-s trials of the TJA and absolute asymmetries compared, before and after kinetic stabilization using paired sample t-tests. Statistical parametric mapping (SPM) compared vertical ground reaction force (VGRF) data for each limb during the jumping cycles before and after stabilization. Results: Small to moderate increases in interlimb asymmetries were observed after stabilization for VGRF, relative vertical leg stiffness, average loading rate, total and propulsive impulse, peak braking and propulsive force (p < 0.05). SPM revealed significant interlimb differences between 77-98% and 83-99% of ground contact for the jumping cycles pre- and post-stabilization respectively. Conclusions: Larger asymmetries were evident after kinetic stabilization, with increased VGRF in the nondominant limb. We speculate that participants sacrificed interlimb landing symmetry to achieve kinetic stability, which may reflect a primal landing strategy that forgoes movement quality. Assessing lower limb biomechanics using the TJA should involve examining kinetic stability and interlimb kinetic asymmetries.		[Kember, Lucy S.; Lloyd, Rhodri S.] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Sch Sport & Hlth Sci, Cardiff, Wales; [Lloyd, Rhodri S.] Auckland Univ Technol, Sport Performance Res Inst, Auckland, New Zealand; [Lloyd, Rhodri S.] Waikato Inst Technol, Ctr Sport Sci & Human Performance, Hamilton, New Zealand; [Myer, Gregory D.] Emory Sport Performance & Res Ctr, Flowery Branch, GA USA; [Myer, Gregory D.] Emory Sports Med Ctr, Atlanta, GA USA; [Myer, Gregory D.] Emory Univ, Sch Med, Dept Orthopaed, Atlanta, GA USA; [Myer, Gregory D.] Micheli Ctr Sports Injury Prevent, Waltham, MA USA; [Kember, Lucy S.] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Sch Sport & Hlth Sci, Cardiff, Wales								3							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001228304400001	41	Article; Article		
J	Mcfall, Todd; Whitehead, John								Measuring the Impact of the COVID-19 Pandemic on Elite Swimming Performance								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				25	5			634	656		10.1177/15270025241239626			JUN 2024	2024	This paper aims to understand how much elite swimmers' training plans for the 2020 Olympics were altered by the COVID-19 pandemic and to measure the effect the interruption had on performances at the United States Olympic Trials Swimming Meet, held in June 2021. To understand better the extent of the disruption caused by the pandemic, we surveyed swimmers and their coaches prior to the meet and found plans were altered in a number of dimensions, including time in the pool, time spent on complementary training activities like weightlifting, and the number of competitions swimmers used to prepare for the Trials. Those surveyed expressed worry that performances would suffer as a result of the disruptions, especially in longer races. We use rankings of United States swimmers from 1999-2019 to measure how much performance suffered from disruptions brought on by the pandemic. We estimate that swimmers' performances generally were worse than forecasted, especially in longer events, and that, somewhat surprisingly, some stroke disciplines performed worse than others. Our findings fit into a larger picture of the societal disruptions to health, education, and labor participation from COVID-19.		[Mcfall, Todd] Economics, Ophthalmol, Campus Box 7505, Wake Forest, NC 27109 USA; [Whitehead, John] Appalachian State Univ, Econ, Boone, NC USA; [Mcfall, Todd] Economics, Ophthalmol, Campus Box 7505, Wake Forest, NC 27109 USA								2							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001198796000001	27	Article; Article		
J	Cassidy, Jordan; Young, Warren; Gorman, Adam; Kelly, Vince								Merging Athletic Development With Skill Acquisition: Developing Agility Using an Ecological Dynamics Approach								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				46	2			202	213		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000791			APR 2024	2024	Agility has commonly been regarded as a physical quality, and strength and conditioning practitioners have typically used a closed environment approach for developing agility. This closed environment approach involves the decoupling of perception and action, where actions are trained in isolation from perception. Previous studies have shown, however, that when perception or action is trained in isolation, behavior changes. Therefore, agility is complex and multifactorial in nature. Through ecological dynamics, specifically the principle of representative learning design, practitioners should design training tasks that align more closely with the demands of competition. Representative learning design ensures that perception and action remain coupled to promote greater transfer of performance from training to competition. Another key principle for agility task design is coadaptation, and this can be operationalized through manipulation of opposing players. With these 2 key principles, we offer examples of agility tasks in 3 team invasion sports including soccer, rugby union, and Australian rules football.		[Cassidy, Jordan] Queensland Univ Technol, Sch Exercise & Nutr Sci, Brisbane, Australia; [Young, Warren] Federat Univ Australia, Sch Sci Psychol & Sport, Ballarat, Australia; [Gorman, Adam] Queensland Univ Technol, Sch Exercise & Nutr Sci, Brisbane, Australia; [Kelly, Vince] Queensland Univ Technol, Sch Exercise & Nutr Sci, Brisbane, Australia; [Cassidy, Jordan] Queensland Univ Technol, Sch Exercise & Nutr Sci, Brisbane, Australia								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:001279474600008	76	Article; Article		
J	Zhou, Huiyu; Xu, Datao; Quan, Wenjing; Ugbolue, Ukadike Chris; Zhou, Zhanyi; Gu, Yaodong								Can the Entire Function of the Foot Be Concentrated in the Forefoot Area during the Running Stance Phase? A Finite Element Study of Different Shoe Soles								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				92				5	17		10.5114/jhk/174311			APR 2024	2024	The goal of this study was to use the finite element (FE) method to compare and study the differences between bionic shoes (BS) and normal shoes (NS) forefoot strike patterns when running. In addition, we separated the forefoot area when forefoot running as a way to create a small and independent area of instability. An adult male of Chinese descent was recruited for this investigation (age: 26 years old; body height: 185 cm; body mass: 82 kg) (forefoot strike patterns). We analyzed forefoot running under two different conditions through FE analysis, and used bone stress distribution feature classification and recognition for further analysis. The metatarsal stress values in forefoot strike patterns with BS were less than with NS. Additionally, the bone stress classification of features and the recognition accuracy rate of metatarsal (MT) 2, MT3 and MT5 were higher than other foot bones in the first 5%, 10%, 20% and 50% of nodes. BS forefoot running helped reduce the probability of occurrence of metatarsal stress fractures. In addition, the findings further revealed that BS may have important implications for the prevention of hallux valgus, which may be more effective in adolescent children. Finally, this study presents a post -processing method for FE results, which is of great significance for further understanding and exploration of FE results.		[Zhou, Huiyu; Xu, Datao; Quan, Wenjing; Zhou, Zhanyi; Gu, Yaodong] Ningbo Univ, Fac Sports Sci, Ningbo, Peoples R China; [Zhou, Huiyu; Ugbolue, Ukadike Chris] Univ West Scotland, Sch Hlth & Life Sci, Paisley, Scotland; [Xu, Datao; Quan, Wenjing] Univ Pannonia, Fac Engn, Veszprem, Hungary; [Xu, Datao; Quan, Wenjing] Eotvos Lorand Univ, Savaria Inst Technol, Budapest, Hungary; [Gu, Yaodong] Ningbo 2 Hosp, Dept Radiol, Ningbo, Peoples R China; [Gu, Yaodong] Ningbo Univ, Fac Sports Sci, Ningbo, Peoples R China; [Gu, Yaodong] Ningbo 2 Hosp, Dept Radiol, Ningbo, Peoples R China								13							Sport Sciences	WOS:001222082600009	42	Article; Article		
J	Simmons, Ryan; Leicht, Anthony; Sinclair, Wade; Bowman, Paul; Dobbin, Michael; Doma, Kenji								Acute Response to Training after Returning from the Off-Season in Elite Rugby League Athletes								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				92				133	146		10.5114/jhk/185442			APR 2024	2024	The purposes of this study were to quantify the physiological response to the initial two-week preseason period in elite male rugby league (RL) athletes, and to determine if a repeated bout effect (RBE) occurs. Eighteen RL players were monitored for the initial two-week preseason period. Blood samples were collected on days (D)1, D2, D4, D5, D8, D9, D11 and D12 to measure creatine kinase (CK). Neuromuscular power was assessed on D1, D5, D8 and D12. During field-based sessions, the external training load was quantified using global positioning system technology, whilst the internal load was quantified using the training impulse and the session rating of perceived exertion. Resistance-based gym session volume was quantified by total repetitions x weight lifted. Perceived measures of fatigue and muscle soreness were assessed on all training days. Two-way (day x week) repeated measures analysis of variance and Bonferroni's corrected post-hoc tests identified significant changes. There were no significant changes in CK activity (649.2 +/- 255.0 vs. 673.8 +/- 299.1 mu L; p = 0.63) or internal training load measures from week 1 to week 2. External training load measures including total distance (4138.1 +/- 198.4 vs. 4525.0 +/- 169.2 m; p < 0.001) and repeated high-intensity efforts (12.6 +/- 1.8 vs. 17.5 +/- 1.8 au; p < 0.001) significantly increased in week 2 compared to week 1. Internal training loads and CK activity did not change in response to an increase in external training loads during the initial preseason. The current results provide support for a 'real world' perspective of the RBE phenomenon that may be more applicable for team sport practitioners.		[Simmons, Ryan; Leicht, Anthony; Sinclair, Wade; Doma, Kenji] James Cook Univ, Coll Healthcare Sci, Sport & Exercise Sci, Townsville, Australia; [Sinclair, Wade; Bowman, Paul] North Queensland Cowboys Rugby League Football Clu, Townsville, Australia; [Dobbin, Michael] Western Australian Inst Sport, Perth, Australia; [Doma, Kenji] Orthopead Inst Queensland, Townsville, Australia; [Doma, Kenji] James Cook Univ, Coll Healthcare Sci, Sport & Exercise Sci, Townsville, Australia; [Doma, Kenji] Orthopead Inst Queensland, Townsville, Australia								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:001222082600011	37	Article; Article		
J	Gaamouri, Nawel; Hammami, Mehrez; Cherni, Yosser; Oranchuk, Dustin J.; van den Tillaar, Roland; Chelly, Mohamed Souhaiel								Rubber Band Training Improves Athletic Performance in Young Female Handball Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				92				227	238		10.5114/jhk/175396			APR 2024	2024	This study's objective was to investigate the impact of a 10-week in season contrast rubber band training program on athletic performance in young female handball players. Youth athletes (15.8 +/- 0.2 years) were randomly assigned to an intervention (n = 16) or a control group (n = 14). The intervention group performed contrast rubber band training (20 sessions over two weeks), while the control group maintained regular in-season training. The modified T-test, squat jump, countermovement jump, standing long jump, repeated sprint ability, 1-RM bench press and half squat, along with upper and lower limb force-velocity tests were performed. The intervention group experienced significantly larger performance enhancements than the control group in the modified T-test [p < 0.001; d = 1.45 %triangle (intervention = -7.1, control = -0.8)], vertical jump [p <= 0.009; d >= 0.72; %triangle (8.4 < intervention < 19.8, 4.1 < control < 12.2)], 1-RM strength [p <= 0.04, d >= 0.80; %triangle (37.1 < intervention < 39.7, 7.2 < control < 11.2)], all force-velocity scores for the upper limbs [p <= 0.009; d >= 0.72; %triangle (21 < intervention < 82, 0.1 < control < 11.6)], three of four force-velocity scores for the lower limb performance [p <= 0.02; d >= 0.64; %triangle (6.4 < intervention < 31.3, 0.8 < control < 11.1)] and all repeated sprint times [p < 0.001; d >= 1.15; %triangle (-3.4 < intervention < -3.1, -1.9 < control < -0.5)]. It was concluded that ten weeks of contrast rubber band training positively affected most motor abilities in youth female handball athletes. Therefore, coaches and practitioners should consider utilizing contrast rubber band strength training as a time and resource-efficient means of improving physical fitness of youth handball players.		[Gaamouri, Nawel; Hammami, Mehrez; Cherni, Yosser; Chelly, Mohamed Souhaiel] Univ Manouba, Higher Inst Sport & Phys Educ Ksar Said, Res Lab LR23JS01 Sport Performance Hlth & Soc, Tunis, Tunisia; [Gaamouri, Nawel; Hammami, Mehrez; Cherni, Yosser; Chelly, Mohamed Souhaiel] Univ Manouba, Higher Inst Sport & Phys Educ Ksar Said, Tunis, Tunisia; [Oranchuk, Dustin J.] Univ Colorado, Dept Phys Med & Rehabil, Muscle Morphol Mech & Performance Lab, Anschutz Med Campus, Aurora, CO 80045 USA; [van den Tillaar, Roland] Nord Univ, Dept Sports Sci & Phys Educ, Levanger, Norway; [van den Tillaar, Roland] Nord Univ, Dept Sports Sci & Phys Educ, Levanger, Norway								9							Sport Sciences	WOS:001222082600018	48	Article; Article		
J	Barrera-Dominguez, Francisco J.; Almagro, Bartolome J.; Molina-Lopez, Jorge								The Influence of Functional Movement and Strength upon Linear and Change of Direction Speed in Male and Female Basketball Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				92				147	159		10.5114/jhk/177313			APR 2024	2024	The present study aimed to analyse the relationship between functional movement and strength variables upon linear speed (Ls) and change of direction (COD) based on gender. It also aimed to identify the determinants of performance of Ls and COD according to gender. Fifty basketball players (54% female) completed the assessment in which the weightbearing dorsiflexion test, the Y -balance test, the unilateral countermovement jump, the unilateral drop jump, the unilateral triple hop test, Ls and CODs were performed. Speed variables were divided according to time execution into "low -performance" and "high-performance" to establish a comparison between performance groups. Strength variables significantly influenced speed tests' performance in both genders (p < 0.05). For males, the greater the Ls, the higher the change of direction deficit (p < 0.001). Multiple regression analysis revealed that a long and vertical stretch -shortening cycle (SSC) was the most influential physical ability for speed performance in females (45-65% variance explained; p < 0.001), while in males, a short and horizontal SSC played a significant role (30-61% variance explained; p < 0.022). These results suggest that gender should be considered in programming strength training to improve speed, as each gender will benefit most from the application of different force -orientations and different SSC. Also, the faster the male players were in Ls, the less efficient they were in the COD performance. This is why for men, it would be recommended to perform eccentric exercises along with deceleration and technique drills to improve COD speed.		[Barrera-Dominguez, Francisco J.; Almagro, Bartolome J.; Molina-Lopez, Jorge] Univ Huelva, Fac Educ Psychol & Sport Sci, COIDESO, Huelva, Spain; [Barrera-Dominguez, Francisco J.] Univ Huelva, Fac Educ Psychol & Sport Sci, COIDESO, Huelva, Spain								10							Sport Sciences	WOS:001222082600015	39	Article; Article		
J	Juan-Recio, Casto; Prat-Luri, Amaya; Barbado, David; Vera-Garcia, Francisco J.; Moreno-Perez, Victor								Reliability of a Trunk Flexion and Extensor Muscle Strength Test with Hand-Held and Isokinetic Dynamometers in Female Athletes								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				92				43	52		10.5114/jhk/172640			APR 2024	2024	An accurate trunk muscle strength assessment seems very important to design and individualize training and rehabilitation programs in clinical and sport settings. Hand-held dynamometers (HHDs) are interesting alternatives to isokinetic dynamometers for assessing trunk isometric muscle strength because they are inexpensive instruments and easy to use. This cross-sectional observational study aimed to examine the reliability of two novel sitting tests for assessing trunk flexion and extension isometric strength using an HHD and their relationship with two other novel isometric tests that use an isokinetic dynamometer. Twenty-four female amateur athletes (age: 24.5 +/- 2.64 years; body height: 164.45 +/- 6.33 cm; body mass: 63.17 +/- 10.35 kg) participated in this study. A test -retest design was carried out one -week apart to examine the reliability. The relationship and the degree of agreement between the HHD and the isokinetic dynamometer measurements were analysed using Pearson correlation and Bland -Altman analysis, respectively. In general, the reliability of all isometric strength tests was good, with ICCs ranging from 0.65 to 0.87 and typical error < 15%. Pearson correlations were moderate, with values of r = 0.47 (R-2 = 0.22) and r = 0.42 (R-2 = 0.18) for flexion and extension strength, respectively. Bland -Altman plots showed no agreement between HHDs and isokinetic measurements. All trunk isometric tests using both, an isokinetic dynamometer and HHDs, provide reliable measurements for assessing trunk flexion and extension strength. According to the comparative analysis, both measurement types are different and cannot be used interchangeably. Health and sport professionals should choose the test that best suits the biomechanical characteristics required for functional goals or success in a given sport.		[Juan-Recio, Casto; Prat-Luri, Amaya; Barbado, David; Vera-Garcia, Francisco J.; Moreno-Perez, Victor] Miguel Hernandez Univ Elche, Sports Res Ctr, Dept Sport Sci, Alicante, Spain; [Prat-Luri, Amaya] Miguel Hernandez Univ Elche, Sports Res Ctr, Dept Sport Sci, Alicante, Spain								8							Sport Sciences	WOS:001222082600016	27	Article; Article		
J	Kuvvetli, Umit; Cilengiroglu, Ozguel Vupa								Home Advantage and Away Disadvantage of Teams in Champions League: Is It Valid for All Teams and Against Every Opponent?								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				92				161	179		10.5114/jhk/175398			APR 2024	2024	The home advantage (HA) is a robust phenomenon in soccer whereby the home team wins more games and scores more goals than the away team. Similarly, away disadvantage (AD) means that an away team loses more games or scores less goals than the home team. This study examines the HA and AD values of teams in the UEFA -Champions League, covering the seasons from 2003/2004 to 2021/2022, a total of 2,344 matches. Controlling for team ability differences, the study revealed significant variations in HA, ranging from 32.1% to 79.5%, while AD values ranged from 45.1% to 71.9%. The study further found that HA remained consistent for teams across both the group and knockout stages, while AD varied between these stages. Furthermore, the results suggest that, for certain teams, HA is predominantly manifested against weaker opponents, and the impact of opponent strength on HA and AD is limited.		[Kuvvetli, Umit] Bakircay Univ, Dept Business Adm, Izmir, Turkiye; [Cilengiroglu, Ozguel Vupa] Dokuz Eylul Univ, Dept Stat, Izmir, Turkiye; [Kuvvetli, Umit] Bakircay Univ, Dept Business Adm, Izmir, Turkiye								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:001222082600007	37	Article; Article		
J	Tortu, Erkan; Hazir, Tahir; Kin-Isler, Ayse								Energy System Contributions in Repeated Sprint Tests: Protocol and Sex Comparison								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				92				87	98		10.5114/jhk/175862			APR 2024	2024	The aim of this study was to investigate the energy system contributions to different repeated sprint protocols and also to determine sex -related differences in these contributions. Sixteen men and fourteen women team sport athletes randomly performed two cycling repeated sprint protocols with the same total duration (10 x 6 s and 6 x 10 s). Relative peak power (RPP), relative mean power (RMP), performance decrement (PD), oxygen uptake (VO 2 ), blood lactate (LA), heart rate (HR) and ratings of perceived exertion (RPEs) were measured. The contributions of energy systems were calculated from oxygen consumption and lactate values during rest, exercise and recovery phases based on mathematical methods. Findings indicate that men had higher RPP and RMP. RPP did not differ according to protocols, while RMP was higher in the 10 x 6 s protocol. The sex effect in PD was similar; however, it was higher in the 6 x 10 s protocol. The effects of protocols on the maximum HR and LA were similar; however, the 6 x 10 s protocol resulted in higher RPEs. In both protocols women had higher ATP-PCr and men had higher glycolytic system contribution with similar oxidative system contribution. In addition, the 10 x 6 s protocol had higher ATP-PCr system contribution and the 6 x 10 s protocol had higher glycolytic system and oxidative system contributions. In conclusion, the contribution of energy systems, physiological and performance variables showed variations according to sex and different protocols.		[Tortu, Erkan] Trabzon Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Coaching Educ, Trabzon, Turkiye; [Hazir, Tahir; Kin-Isler, Ayse] Hacettepe Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Exercise & Sport Sci, Div Training & Movement Sci, Ankara, Turkiye; [Kin-Isler, Ayse] Hacettepe Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Exercise & Sport Sci, Div Training & Movement Sci, Ankara, Turkiye								12							Sport Sciences	WOS:001222082600002	44	Article; Article		
J	Riemann, Bryan L.; Johnson, Matthew J.; Davies, George J.; Flatt, Andrew A.								Residual Effects of Same Day Lower Extremity Strength Training on Countermovement Jump Performance in Collegiate Women Athletes								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				92				213	225		10.5114/jhk/185439			APR 2024	2024	Balancing of strength programming intensity with sport demands is necessary to avoid excessive workloads that could inhibit performance. To expand previous jump height focused literature, this study evaluated whether countermovement jump (CMJ) movement strategies, including eccentric characteristics, might reveal CMJ execution strategy shifts to achieve similar afternoon CMJ height following a morning resistance training session (RTS). Fifteen collegiate women's soccer and volleyball athletes (18-24 years, 73.6 +/- 8.4 kg, 1.74 +/- 0.19 m) participating in an offseason RTS completed five CMJs during two afternoon sessions (48 h apart), one 4-6 h post morning RTS, and one on a rest day. The RTS consisted of 2 sets of 10 repetitions at 70-80% 1RM for the back squat, the front squat, and the forward lunge. Vertical ground reaction forces were recorded from which 13 outcome measures describing elements of the eccentric and concentric CMJ phases were computed. No significant differences in jump height (p = 0.427, d = 0.17) or outcome measures (p = 0.091-0.777, d = -0.07-0.21) between sessions with exception of a significant concentric phase time decrease (p = 0.026, d = 0.23) following the RTS were identified. Given the magnitude of the mean concentric phase time change (0.01 s), the result likely has limited practical meaning. As these results confirm previous CMJ height literature, practitioners have further evidence that a morning RTS does not interfere or enhance afternoon CMJ performance in athletic women.		[Riemann, Bryan L.; Johnson, Matthew J.; Davies, George J.; Flatt, Andrew A.] Georgia Southern Univ, Biodynam & Human Performance Ctr, Armstrong Campus, Savannah, GA 31419 USA; [Riemann, Bryan L.; Johnson, Matthew J.; Flatt, Andrew A.] Georgia Southern Univ, Dept Hlth Sci & Kinesiol, Armstrong Campus, Savannah, GA 31419 USA; [Riemann, Bryan L.] Georgia Southern Univ, Biodynam & Human Performance Ctr, Armstrong Campus, Savannah, GA 31419 USA; [Riemann, Bryan L.] Georgia Southern Univ, Dept Hlth Sci & Kinesiol, Armstrong Campus, Savannah, GA 31419 USA								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:001222082600014	40	Article; Article		
J	Hatzimanouil, Dimitris; Saavedra, Jose M.; Lola, Afroditi; Skandalis, Vasilis; Gkagkanas, Konstantinos								Analysis of Movement and Actions of Wingers as Second-Line Players in Organized Attack in Handball								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				92				181	191		10.5114/jhk/175281			APR 2024	2024	In modern handball, one of the important performance indicators is the effectiveness of the attack, especially the running-in of wingers as line players which has not been explored adequately. The purpose of the study was to analyze the movements of wingers in the organized attack when they run in. Fifty-eight matches were analyzed from the 2022 EHF European Men's Handball Championship. A total of 491 attacks were recorded and 45 variables were analyzed in which wingers ran in as second pivots and the outcome was a throw. For the statistical analysis, descriptive and inductive statistics were used. The results showed that the average time of the running-in was 12.11 +/- 9.28 s, the left wing ran in more often (60.1%) and wingers tended to move outside the defense formation (72.5%). Wingers ran in without the ball in possession (81.1%), moved toward defenders 2 and 5 and stood next to defenders, and occasionally blocked, slid or left their position. The defense's central zone was preferred by players to make a throw. Correspondence analysis showed that wingers finally returned to their initial position regardless of the evolution of the attack. Their role was to block a specific defender or disorganize the defense, for one defender to be isolated so that one attacking player could execute a shot from the central area. Conclusively, wingers play an important role, especially in run-in actions, at the completion of an attack, and in the final throw.		[Hatzimanouil, Dimitris; Lola, Afroditi; Skandalis, Vasilis; Gkagkanas, Konstantinos] Aristotle Univ Thessaloniki, Sch Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Thessaloniki, Greece; [Saavedra, Jose M.] Sch Social Sci, Phys Act Phys Educ Sport & Hlth PAPESH Res Ctr, Sports Sci Dept, Reykjavik, Iceland; [Lola, Afroditi] Aristotle Univ Thessaloniki, Sch Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Thessaloniki, Greece								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:001222082600004	22	Article; Article		
J	Arima, Satoshi; Maeda, Noriaki; Oda, Sakura; Tamura, Yuki; Komiya, Makoto; Tashiro, Tsubasa; Urabe, Yukio								Selective Strength Training Changes the Morphology and Ankle Strength of the Peroneus Longus and the Peroneus Brevis								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				92				99	110		10.5114/jhk/176131			APR 2024	2024	This study aimed to investigate the 8-week selective training effect of the peroneus longus (PL) and the peroneus brevis (PB) on muscle morphology, echogenicity, and ankle strength and to examine post-intervention detraining effects. Twenty healthy participants without orthopedic disease in the lower extremities were assigned to either the PL intervention group (training consisted of pushing the Thera-Band (R) out from the ball of the foot to emphasize ankle eversion) or the PB intervention group (training consisted of pulling the Thera-Band (R) from the base of the fifth metatarsal to enhance ankle valgus and external rotation). Each intervention was performed three times per week for 8 weeks. The cross-sectional area (CSA), thickness, echogenicity, and ankle strength of the PL and the PB were measured before week 1 and after each training session. Detraining effects were evaluated after the 8-week intervention. The results revealed a significant interaction between within-group (week) and between-group (type of intervention) variables on CSA and ankle strength of both the PL and the PB. Over the 8-week training period, the CSA and ankle strength of the PL significantly increased in the PL intervention group, as did the CSA and ankle strength of the PB in the PB intervention group (p < 0.05). The residual effect of muscle hypertrophy was observed during the detraining period. In conclusion, 8-week selective PL and PB training interventions can increase the CSA and ankle strength of these muscles over time. Long-term selective intervention is required to improve peroneus muscle morphology and function, with separate assessments of the CSA and ankle strength of the PL and the PB.		[Arima, Satoshi; Maeda, Noriaki; Oda, Sakura; Tamura, Yuki; Komiya, Makoto; Tashiro, Tsubasa; Urabe, Yukio] Hiroshima Univ, Grad Sch Biomed & Hlth Sci, Dept Sports Rehabil, Hiroshima, Japan; [Urabe, Yukio] Hiroshima Univ, Grad Sch Biomed & Hlth Sci, Dept Sports Rehabil, Hiroshima, Japan								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001222082600017	27	Article; Article		
J	Pojskic, Haris; Zombra, Zeljko; Washif, Jad Adrian; Pagaduan, Jeffrey								Acute Effects of Loaded and Unloaded Whole-Body Vibration on Vertical Jump Performance in Karate Athletes								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				92				203	212		10.5114/jhk/172637			APR 2024	2024	We investigated the acute effects of different whole-body vibration (WBV) interventions on the jump height of highly trained karate practitioners. Fifteen male karate club athletes (age: 20.0 +/- 3.8 years; stature: 177.3 +/- 4.7 cm; body mass: 76.9 +/- 11.2 kg; % body fat: 9.2 +/- 4.3) performed six randomized interventions: [a] static half-squat (SHS); [b] SHS with external loads at 30% of the body weight (SHS + 30%BW); [c] WBV at frequency (f) 25 Hz, and 2 mm amplitude (A) (WBV 25/2); [d] WBV 25/2 with external loads of 30% of the body weight (WBV 25/2 + 30% BW); [e] WBV at f = 50 Hz, and A = 4 mm (WBV 50/4), and [f] WBV 50/4 with external loads of 30% of the body weight (WBV 50/4 + 30% BW). Each intervention was performed for 5 sets at 60 s/set, with a rest interval of 30 s between sets. Countermovement jump (CMJ) data were collected at 2, 4, 6, 8 and 10 min after each preconditioning intervention. Two-way repeatedmeasures ANOVA revealed a non-significant main effect of intervention [F(5, 10) = 1.44, eta 2 = 0.42, p = 0.29)] and a significant main effect of the rest interval [F(4, 11) = 3.51, eta 2 = 0.56, p = 0.04)] on CMJ height. A rest interval of 4 min resulted in significantly higher CMJ values than a rest interval of 2 min (p = 0.031). In conclusion, utilizing a 4-min rest interval irrespective of the intervention schemes may have potential for enhancing jumping performance among highly trained karate athletes.		[Pojskic, Haris] Linnaeus Univ, Fac Social Sci, Dept Sports Sci, Kalmar, Sweden; [Zombra, Zeljko] Inst Kinesiol, Lukavac, Bosnia & Herceg; [Zombra, Zeljko] Univ Tuzla, Fac Phys Educ & Sports, Tuzla, Bosnia & Herceg; [Washif, Jad Adrian] Inst Sukan Negara Malaysia, Natl Sports Inst Malaysia, Sports Performance Div, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia; [Pagaduan, Jeffrey] Palacky Univ Olomouc, Fac Phys Culture, Olomouc, Czech Republic; [Pojskic, Haris] Linnaeus Univ, Fac Social Sci, Dept Sports Sci, Kalmar, Sweden								7							Sport Sciences	WOS:001222082600001	41	Article; Article		
J	Gyarmati, Laszlo; Edvy, Laszlo; Mihalyko, Csaba; Orban-Mihalyko, Eva								Decision support for sports selection based on performance measurement applying the generalized Thurstone method								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	6			2548	2560		10.1177/17479541241240609			DEC 2024	2024	In this article, a new complex method is presented that supports decision-making in sports selection. The method consists of two different parts. The first one is the creation of the framework, that is the assessment of the opinions of trainers about the significance of some attributes in special sports. As a result, weights are constructed based on a generalized 7-option Thurstone method. The second part of the process involves assessing athletes' performance from various perspectives. Finally, the calculated weights are combined with the performance of the athletes. The scores we obtain quantifiably indicate which sport is most likely to be recommended for a given individual. Moreover, the method developed allows us to quantifiably measure the strength of individual athletes and compare them across age groups equally. A computer program has been developed that implements the evaluation process in addition to this the evaluation results are also presented in this article. By extending this method, it can not only be used for sports selection but also for making various complex decisions where there are numerous possible outcomes to choose from. As a result of this research, we present a generalized set of criteria for the evaluation and describe the results obtained with the method. We explain the relationship between coaching decisions and the recommendations of the method and provide a method for determining the direction of future development for individual athletes.		[Gyarmati, Laszlo; Mihalyko, Csaba; Orban-Mihalyko, Eva] Univ Pannonia, Dept Math, Veszprem, Hungary; [Edvy, Laszlo] Univ Pannonia, Phys Educ & Sports Inst, Veszprem, Hungary; [Gyarmati, Laszlo] Univ Pannonia, Dept Math, Egyet 10, H-8200 Veszprem, Hungary; [Gyarmati, Laszlo] Univ Pannonia, Dept Math, Egyet 10, H-8200 Veszprem, Hungary								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001193086600001	34	Article; Article		
J	Mastromartino, Brandon								Human capital development in sport marketing: industry insights								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				25	3			620	640		10.1108/IJSMS-11-2023-0238			JUL 9 2024	2024	PurposeThe purpose of this study was to gather insights from sport marketing professionals and identify key opportunities, challenges and knowledge that sport marketing educators and researchers could utilize in developing curriculum and research agendas.Design/methodology/approachA qualitative approach was used, and data were collected through in-depth interviews with 15 sport marketing professionals. Participants were asked questions related to the knowledge, skills and experiences that they believe are important for students to have to be successful in the industry, as well as the types of research that would be most useful in their day-to-day work.FindingsIndustry professionals noted collaboration, transformation in digital marketing, data and analytics and experiential marketing as key trends facing the industry today. The findings suggest that sport marketing curriculum should focus on soft skill development such as communication, relationship building and empathy alongside hard skill development such as data analysis and storytelling. As well, findings show research areas where scholars can aid practitioners with a focus on consumer insights, technology, measuring ROI and experiential marketing.Originality/valueWith these findings, educators and scholars can better prepare students for successful careers in industry and contribute to the ongoing advancement of the scholarly field. This study serves as a starting point for further research in this area, and it is hoped that it will spark continued collaboration between academia and industry.		[Mastromartino, Brandon] San Diego State Univ, L Robert Payne Sch Hospitality & Tourism Managemen, San Diego 92182, CA USA; [Mastromartino, Brandon] San Diego State Univ, L Robert Payne Sch Hospitality & Tourism Managemen, San Diego 92182, CA USA								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001184425400001	79	Article; Article		
J	Segura-Berges, Manuel; Penarrubia-Lozano, Carlos; Bustamante, Juan Carlos								(Re)defining Motor Competence: Empirical Exploration Based on a Moderated Mediation Approach								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				95	4			795	803		10.1080/02701367.2024.2319589			OCT 1 2024	2024	Purpose: The aim of the study was to empirically support a broader motor competence moderated mediation approach in which motor coordination is the predictor variable and motor competence self-perception is the outcome variable, anxiety and self-esteem are mediator variables, and gender is the moderator variable. Method: 327 year-4 Primary Education pupils participated. A conditional processes analysis was performed by macro PROCESS v.3.4. Results: For the moderation effects, interactions appeared between motor coordination and gender when taking self-esteem, anxiety and motor competence self-perception as outcome variables. Interactions were found between self-esteem and gender when anxiety and motor competence self-perception were taken as outcome variables. An interaction appeared between anxiety and gender when motor competence self-perception was considered an outcome variable. A significant direct effect was noted between the motor coordination variable and motor competence self-perception for both genders. The moderated mediation indices supported the indirect conditional effects of motor coordination when partially and jointly bearing in mind the moderator effect of gender on motor competence self-perception by means of self-esteem and anxiety. Conclusions: The results reveal the importance of understanding motor competence by more globally contemplating not only students' motor learning, but also their cognitive and psycho-emotional reality.		[Segura-Berges, Manuel] Colegio Co Maria, Bogota, Colombia; [Penarrubia-Lozano, Carlos; Bustamante, Juan Carlos] Univ Zaragoza, Zaragoza, Spain; [Bustamante, Juan Carlos] Univ Zaragoza, Fac Educ, Calle Pedro Cerbuna 12, Zaragoza 50009, Spain; [Bustamante, Juan Carlos] Univ Zaragoza, Fac Educ, Calle Pedro Cerbuna 12, Zaragoza 50009, Spain								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001175074600001	65	Article; Article		
J	Vila-Lopez, Natalia; Kuster-Boluda, Ines; Aragones-Jerico, Cristina; Sarabia-Sanchez, Francisco								Sports ambassadors and destination image: a fuzzy set analysis								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				25	3			524	540		10.1108/IJSMS-11-2023-0227			JUL 9 2024	2024	PurposeThis paper aims to identify different combinations of causal conditions (celebrity attributes) that explain our outcome: destination image. More specifically, three main research questions guide our work: (1) Which attributes should an outstanding sportsperson have to enhance the image of his/her country as a destination image? (2) Are these the same for different product categories? (3) Do tourists and residents differ?Design/methodology/approachTo this end, the fuzzy-set Qualitative Comparative Analysis (fsQCA) was used with a sample of 187 participants (105 tourists and 82 residents).FindingsResults show that some attributes of a sports celebrity are more critical than others in enhancing destination image. Those attributes of sports celebrities appearing in the intermediate and parsimonious analysis should be prioritized. This is the case of trustworthiness. Second, experience is a peripheral requirement (only appeared in the intermediate analysis). Third, attractiveness is unnecessary and an even and undesired attribute in many solutions. Fourth, when comparing tourists and residents, both groups value the role of football players, while residents also appreciate the role of marathon runners. Tennis players are the less relevant sports celebrities to build Spain's destination image.Originality/valueFirst, a new statistical analysis in the marketing discipline, QCA, has been used. The use of qualitative approaches to investigate destination images has been scarce. Second, the study of the role of sports celebrity endorsement on brand-place attachment has yet to be investigated. Third, studies about the role of residents in the image of a tourism destination/city are scarce. Tourists and residents must be investigated because they can benefit from sports celebrities' activities.		[Vila-Lopez, Natalia; Kuster-Boluda, Ines; Aragones-Jerico, Cristina] Univ Valencia, Dept Comercializac Invest Mercados, Valencia, Spain; [Sarabia-Sanchez, Francisco] Univ Miguel Hernandez Elche, Elche, Spain; [Vila-Lopez, Natalia] Univ Valencia, Dept Comercializac Invest Mercados, Valencia, Spain								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001176274800001	34	Article; Article		
J	Kali, Raja; Pastoriza, David; Plante, Jean-Francois; Turkina, Ekaterina								Migrants Networks and Survival in the Job: Evidence from Foreign Newcomers on the PGA Tour								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				25	4			443	471		10.1177/15270025241233551			MAY 2024	2024	How do migrant social networks matter for performance in the job? We examine this by constructing a nationality-based network of foreign newcomers when they first begin to play in the PGA TOUR and examine the impact of this initial social network on newcomers' probability of surviving (i.e., keeping their license) at the end of their inaugural PGA TOUR season. We find that the migrant social network matters among the non-elite group of players in the second tier of the PGA TOUR, but not among the elite group of players in the first tier of the PGA TOUR. For the second-tier tour players, we find that density of connections within a nationality cluster has a sizable positive effect on newcomers' probability of surviving, but no evidence that the centrality of a nationality cluster in the overall PGA TOUR network has an impact on survival.		[Kali, Raja] Univ Arkansas, Fayetteville, AR USA; [Pastoriza, David; Plante, Jean-Francois; Turkina, Ekaterina] HEC Montreal, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Kali, Raja] Univ Arkansas, Fayetteville, AR 72701 USA; [Kali, Raja] Univ Arkansas, Fayetteville, AR 72701 USA								0							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001176685000001	47	Article; Article		
J	Guan, Tianyu; Swartz, Tim B.								Acceleration and age in soccer								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	3			1035	1041		10.1177/17479541241232504			JUN 2024	2024	This paper considers how player acceleration changes in soccer relative to age. A plot of average maximum acceleration versus age is produced. The construction of the plot is based on methods from functional data analysis and the availability of tracking data from the 2019 season of the Chinese Super League. For an individual player, we calculate his maximum acceleration for each single match of the 2019 season. Since the players' maximum accelerations are observed only on a single season instead of their entire careers, we treat them as incomplete functional data, called functional snippets. The average maximum acceleration, i.e., the mean function of the functional snippets rather than full curves is estimated by a local linear smoothing method. The most important observation is that the shape of the acceleration curve closely resembles curves of soccer performance versus age. This observation has implications for predicting future performance since acceleration is more easily and more accurately measured than performance.		[Guan, Tianyu] York Univ, Dept Math & Stat, Toronto, ON, Canada; [Swartz, Tim B.] Simon Fraser Univ, Dept Stat & Actuarial Sci, Burnaby, BC, Canada; [Swartz, Tim B.] Simon Fraser Univ, Dept Stat & Actuarial Sci, 8888 Univ Dr, Burnaby, BC V5A1S6, Canada; [Swartz, Tim B.] Simon Fraser Univ, Dept Stat & Actuarial Sci, 8888 Univ Dr, Burnaby, BC V5A1S6, Canada								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001177347100001	29	Article; Article		
J	Alsirhani, Ahmed A.; Muaidi, Qassim I.; Nuhmani, Shibili; Thorborg, Kristian; Husain, Mohamed A.; Al Attar, Wesam Saleh A.								The effectiveness of the Copenhagen adduction exercise on improving eccentric hip adduction strength among soccer players with groin injury: a randomized controlled trial								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				52	5			497	506		10.1080/00913847.2024.2321958			SEP 2 2024	2024	Introduction: Groin injuries are common in soccer players and often involve adductor muscle strains. The Copenhagen Adduction Exercise (CAE) is a targeted intervention whose effectiveness in rehabilitation for these injuries warrants investigation. Objective: To investigate the impact of a rehabilitation program, which includes the CAE, on eccentric hip adduction (EHAD) strength, hip joint range of motion (ROM), self-reported disability, and pain among soccer players with adductor-related groin pain. It was hypothesized that the addition of CAE to the rehabilitation program would yield greater improvements. Methods; Employing a randomized controlled trial with a two-group parallel design, thirty male soccer players with a mean age of 26.4 +/- 3.9 years were randomized into an intervention group (IG) including CAE (n = 15) and a control group (CG) without CAE (n = 15), based on a power analysis to ensure 80% power to detect significant differences. Both groups engaged in their respective rehabilitation programs twice a week for eight weeks. The primary outcome measured was EHAD strength, while secondary outcomes included hip joint ROM, self-reported disability measured by the Copenhagen Hip and Groin Outcome Score (HAGOS), and pain levels. Results: Significant improvements within groups were observed across all measures (p < 0.001). The IG demonstrated a greater increase in EHAD strength (Mean Difference [MD] = 0.49 Nm/kg, 95% Confidence Interval [CI] [0.31, 0.66]), a more pronounced reduction in pain (MD = -1.60, 95% CI [-2.18, -1.02]), and betterment in all HAGOS subscale scores compared to the CG. There were no significant between-group differences in hip joint ROM. Conclusion: Incorporating the CAE into rehabilitation programs significantly improves EHAD strength, decreases pain scores, and reduces self-reported disability in soccer players with adductor-related groin pain.		[Alsirhani, Ahmed A.; Muaidi, Qassim I.; Nuhmani, Shibili] Imam Abdulrahman Bin Faisal Univ, Coll Appl Med Sci, Dept Phys Therapy, Dammam, Saudi Arabia; [Alsirhani, Ahmed A.] Minist Hlth, Dept Phys Therapy, Abha, Aseer Region, Saudi Arabia; [Thorborg, Kristian] Copenhagen Univ Hosp, Hvidovre Hosp, Sports Orthopaed Res Ctr Copenhagen SORC C, Arthroscop Ctr,Dept Orthoped Surg, Hvidovre, Denmark; [Husain, Mohamed A.] Univ Bahrain, Coll Hlth & Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ, Sakhir, Bahrain; [Al Attar, Wesam Saleh A.] Umm Al Qura Univ, Fac Appl Med Sci, Dept Med Rehabil Sci, Mecca, Saudi Arabia; [Al Attar, Wesam Saleh A.] Univ Sydney, Discipline Exercise & Sport Sci, Med & Hlth Sci, Sydney, Australia; [Al Attar, Wesam Saleh A.] Univ Basel, Dept Sport Exercise & Hlth, Med, Basel, Switzerland; [Alsirhani, Ahmed A.] Imam Abdulrahman Bin Faisal Univ, Coll Appl Med Sci, Dept Phys Therapy, Imam Abdulrahm POB 1982, Dammam 31441, Saudi Arabia; [Alsirhani, Ahmed A.] Imam Abdulrahman Bin Faisal Univ, Coll Appl Med Sci, Dept Phys Therapy, Imam Abdulrahm POB 1982, Dammam 31441, Saudi Arabia								9							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001178907800001	53	Article; Article		
J	Gutierrez-Flores, Daniel; Alcaraz, Pedro E.; Cormier, Patrick; Martinez-Serrano, Antonio; Freitas, Tomris T.								Do Activities Performed within the Intra-Contrast Rest Interval Affect Neuromuscular Performance during Complex-Contrast Training Protocols?								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				91	1			33	46		10.5114/jhk/184168			MAR 2024	2024	The aim of this study was to analyze the acute effects of including different exercises within the intra-contrast rest interval (ICRI) of a complex-contrast training (CCT) session. Seventeen recreationally active males completed three different CCT protocols. Programs consisted of a contrast pair combining a moderate-intensity conditioning activity (i.e., a back squat) with a lower-body high-velocity exercise (i.e., a vertical jump) and only differed in the activities performed during the ICRI: 1) passive recovery (CCTPASS); 2) a mobility exercise (CCTMOB); and 3) an upper -body high-intensity strength exercise (i.e., a bench press) (CCTSTR). Countermovement jump and bench press throw metrics were evaluated at baseline and after each set during the workout. The rate of perceived exertion was recorded post -session. Non-significant differences in performance were found between CCTPASS, CCTMOB and CCTSTR throughout the session. Significant declines (p < 0.05) were observed for CMJ peak power in the last 2-3 repetitions of each set, irrespective of the protocol. CCTSTR was perceived as more intense than CCTPASS and CCTMOB (p < 0.05). From a neuromuscular performance perspective, including activities during the ICRI (mobility drills or high-intensity strength exercises) may be a suitable strategy to optimize CCT prescription since the acute responses were similar to those found with passive rest periods. Finally, prescribing a lower number of repetitions per set is recommended to attenuate mechanical performance impairment during CCT protocols, irrespective of the activities completed within the ICRI.		[Gutierrez-Flores, Daniel; Alcaraz, Pedro E.; Martinez-Serrano, Antonio; Freitas, Tomris T.] UCAM Univ Catolica Murcia, UCAM Res Ctr High Performance Sport, Murcia, Spain; [Alcaraz, Pedro E.; Martinez-Serrano, Antonio; Freitas, Tomris T.] UCAM Univ Catolica Murcia, Fac Deporte, Murcia, Spain; [Alcaraz, Pedro E.; Martinez-Serrano, Antonio; Freitas, Tomris T.] SCS Strength & Conditioning Soc, Murcia, Spain; [Cormier, Patrick] Canadian Sport Inst Pacific, Victoria, BC, Canada; [Cormier, Patrick] Univ Victoria, Exercise Sci Phys & Hlth Educ, Victoria, BC, Canada; [Freitas, Tomris T.] NAR Nucleus High Performance Sport, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Freitas, Tomris T.] UCAM Univ Catolica Murcia, UCAM Res Ctr High Performance Sport, Murcia, Spain; [Freitas, Tomris T.] UCAM Univ Catolica Murcia, Fac Deporte, Murcia, Spain; [Freitas, Tomris T.] SCS Strength & Conditioning Soc, Murcia, Spain; [Freitas, Tomris T.] NAR Nucleus High Performance Sport, Sao Paulo, Brazil								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:001207653100006	50	Article; Article		
J	Dolan, Chad; Quiles, Justin M.; Goldsmith, Jacob A.; Mendez, Kristin M.; Klemp, Alex; Robinson, Zac P.; Pelland, Joshua C.; Coccia, Catherine; Zourdos, Michael C.								The Effect of Time-Equated Concurrent Training Programs in Resistance-Trained Men								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				91	1			87	103		10.5114/jhk/185637			MAR 2024	2024	The purpose of this investigation was to compare the effects of three different concurrent training (CT) programs and a resistance training (RT) program. Twenty-three resistance trained men (age: 24 +/- 3 years) were randomized into four groups: concurrent RT and high intensity interval cycling (CTH, n = 6), concurrent RT and moderate intensity continuous cycling (CTM, n = 5), RT and barbell circuit training (RTC, n = 6), or RT only (RT, n = 6). Back squat and bench press strength, quadriceps, and pectoralis muscle thickness, VO2peak, and maximum workload (W-max, Watts) were assessed. Squat strength gains were meaningful in all groups and comparable among CTH (16.88 kg [95% CrI: 11.15, 22.631), CTM (25.54 kg [95% CrI: 19.24, 31.961), RTC (17.5 kg [95% CrI: 11.66, 23.391), and RT (20.36 kg [95% CrI: 15.29, 25.331) groups. Bench press strength gains were meaningful in all groups and comparable among CTH (11.86 kg [95% CrI: 8.28, 15.471), CTM (10.3 kg [95% CrI: 6.49, 14.131), RTC (4.84 kg [95% CrI: 1.31, 8.471), and RT (10.16 kg [95% CrI: 7.02, 13.221) groups. Quadriceps hypertrophy was meaningful in all groups and comparable among CTH (2.29 mm [95% CrI: 0.84, 3.761), CTM (3.41 mm [95% CrI: 1.88, 4.911), RTC (2.6 mm [95% CrI: 1.17, 4.051), and RT (2.83 mm [95% CrI: 1.55, 4.121) groups. Pectoralis hypertrophy was meaningful in CTH (2.29 mm [95% CrI: -0.52, 5.11), CTM (5.14 mm [95% CrI: 2.1, 8.151), and RTC (7.19 mm [95% CrI: 4.26, 10.021) groups, but not in the RT group (1 mm [95% CrI: -1.59, 3.591); further, between-group contrasts indicated less pectoralis growth in the RT compared to the RTC group. Regarding cardiovascular outcomes, only the RTH and RTM groups experienced meaningful improvements in either measure (VO2peak or W-max). These data suggest that the interference effect on maximal strength and hypertrophy can be avoided when the aerobic training is moderate intensity cycling, high intensity cycling, or a novel barbell circuit for similar to one hour per week and on non-RT days. However, the barbell circuit failed to elicit meaningful cardiovascular adaptations.		[Dolan, Chad; Quiles, Justin M.; Mendez, Kristin M.; Klemp, Alex; Robinson, Zac P.; Pelland, Joshua C.; Zourdos, Michael C.] Florida Atlantic Univ, Dept Exercise Sci & Hlth Promot, Muscle Physiol Lab, Boca Raton, FL 33431 USA; [Goldsmith, Jacob A.] James J Peters VA Med Ctr, Spinal Cord Injury Res, Bronx, NY USA; [Goldsmith, Jacob A.] Icahn Sch Med Mt Sinai, Dept Neurol, New York, NY USA; [Coccia, Catherine] Florida Int Univ, Dept Dietet & Nutr, Miami, FL USA; [Zourdos, Michael C.] Florida Atlantic Univ, Dept Exercise Sci & Hlth Promot, Muscle Physiol Lab, Boca Raton, FL 33431 USA								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:001207653100014	45	Article; Article		
J	de Oliveira, Gessyca T.; Souza, Hiago L. R.; Prazeres, Eduardo O.; Bernardes, Bernardo P.; Patterson, Stephen D.; Arriel, Rhai Andre; Bittencourt, Gustavo; Hohl, Rodrigo; Meireles, Anderson; Marocolo, Moacir								A Practical Approach for Ischemic Preconditioning Intervention in Sports: A Pilot Study for Cuff Thigh Occlusion Pressure Estimation Based on Systolic Blood Pressure								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				91	1			157	164		10.5114/jhk/186064			MAR 2024	2024	For the ischemic preconditioning (IPC) intervention, the accuracy of the protocol is paramount for mediating its possible ergogenic effects. However, the lack of standardization and widespread use of arbitrary cuff pressures (ranging from 130 to >300 mmHg) have been predominantly observed, potentially affecting the results and compromising the reproducibility of findings. Thus, the purpose of this study was to determine an appropriate cuff pressure during IPC. Seventeen healthy male participants were enrolled in the study. Anthropometric measurements were initially conducted, followed by systolic and diastolic blood pressure measurements. Subsequently, we determined the individual thigh occlusion pressure (TOP) for the right leg using a hand-held Doppler device. Based on these findings, we developed an estimation equation for TOP, considering the current brachial systolic blood pressure (SBP) values. We then conducted a retrospective analysis of its capacity to mediate occlusion. We observed the ability to estimate TOP using the equation (p = 0.01; ES: 0.86), presenting similar to 6% superiority in absolute values for occlusion compared to direct measurement (TOP equation: 169.9 +/- 9.1; TOP direct measured: 161.2 +/- 11.1). However, TOP estimation was insufficient to produce complete occlusion in two out of 17 subjects (11.8%). In conclusion, the estimation of TOP incorporating SBP values may offer a valid and practical means for cuff administration during IPC protocols with potential to minimize adverse effects and maximize its positive effects.		[de Oliveira, Gessyca T.; Souza, Hiago L. R.; Prazeres, Eduardo O.; Bernardes, Bernardo P.; Arriel, Rhai Andre; Hohl, Rodrigo; Meireles, Anderson; Marocolo, Moacir] Univ Fed Juiz de Fora, Dept Biophys & Physiol Exercise Physiol Performanc, Juiz De Fora, Brazil; [Patterson, Stephen D.] St Marys Univ, Ctr Appl Performance Sci, London, England; [Bittencourt, Gustavo] Univ Fed Juiz de Fora, Dept Anat, Juiz De Fora, Brazil; [Marocolo, Moacir] Univ Fed Juiz de Fora, Dept Biophys & Physiol Exercise Physiol Performanc, Juiz De Fora, Brazil								6							Sport Sciences	WOS:001207653100012	26	Article; Article		
J	Sadowski, Jerzy; Szyszka, Paulina; Makaruk, Hubert; Starzak, Marcin; Niznikowski, Tomasz								The Effects of Holistic, External, and Internal Attentional Focus Instructions on Power and Kinematics of the Hang Power Snatch in Highly Skilled Weightlifters								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				91	1			77	86		10.5114/jhk/185525			MAR 2024	2024	Athletes across various sports seek to enhance their power generation and force production by incorporating weightlifting exercises into their training. Therefore, integrating partial weightlifting movements could be sensible due to their simplified execution. Our research aimed to investigate which of four attentional focus strategies (external, internal, holistic, and neutral) would have the greatest impact on performance in terms of power variables for highly experienced weightlifting athletes in a practical training setting. Twelve highly skilled Olympic weightlifters volunteered for the study. They performed 48 single repetitions of the hang power snatch with each of the four attentional focus strategies. Results of the ANOVA did not reveal a significant main effect for maximum velocity, power measurement and displacement. Despite extensive research demonstrating how attentional focus affects performance differently, even among highly skilled populations, the lack of observed effects in our study underscores the challenges of conducting research in applied settings.		[Sadowski, Jerzy; Szyszka, Paulina] Jozef Pilsudski Univ Phys Educ Warsaw, Fac Phys Educ & Hlth Biala Podlaska, Dept Sports & Training Sci, Biala Podlaska, Poland; [Makaruk, Hubert; Starzak, Marcin] Jozef Pitsudski Univ Phys Educ Warsaw, Fac Phys Educ & Hlth, Dept Athlet, Biala Podlaska, Poland; [Niznikowski, Tomasz] Jozef Pilsudski Univ Phys Educ, Fac Phys Educ & Hlth, Dept Gymnast, Biala Podlaska, Poland; [Sadowski, Jerzy] Jozef Pilsudski Univ Phys Educ Warsaw, Fac Phys Educ & Hlth Biala Podlaska, Dept Sports & Training Sci, Biala Podlaska, Poland								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:001207653100007	46	Article; Article		
J	Padovan, Riccardo; Toninelli, Nicholas; Longo, Stefano; Tornatore, Gianpaolo; Esposito, Fabio; Ce, Emiliano; Coratella, Giuseppe								High-Density Electromyography Excitation in Front vs. Back Lat Pull-Down Prime Movers								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				91	1			47	60		10.5114/jhk/185211			MAR 2024	2024	The current study compared the spatial excitation of the primary muscles during the lat pull -down exercise with the bar passing in front (front-LPD) or behind the neck (back-LPD) using high -density electromyography. Fourteen resistance trained men performed a front-LPD or a back-LPD within a non -fatiguing set with 8-RM as the external load. The muscle excitation centroid of latissimus dorsi, middle trapezius, pectoralis major, biceps brachii, triceps brachii and posterior deltoid muscles were recorded during the ascending and the descending phase. During the descending phase, the front-LPD showed superior excitation of the latissimus dorsi (ES = 0.97) and the pectoralis major (ES = 1.17), while in the ascending phase, the back-LPD exhibited superior excitation of the latissimus dorsi (ES = 0.63), and the front-LPD showed superior excitation of the biceps brachii (ES = 0.41) and the posterior deltoid (ES = 1.77). During the descending phase, the front-LPD showed a more lateral centroid of the latissimus dorsi (ES = 0.60), the biceps brachii (ES = 0.63) and the triceps brachii (ES = 0.98), while the centroid was more medial for the middle trapezius (ES = 0.58). The centroid of the middle trapezius was also more medial in the front-LPD during the ascending phase (ES = 0.85). The pectoralis major centroid was more cranial in the front-LPD for both the descending (ES = 1.58) and the ascending phase (ES = 0.88). The front-LPD appears to provide overall greater excitation in the prime movers. However, distinct spatial excitation patterns were observed, making exercise suitable for the training routine.		[Padovan, Riccardo; Toninelli, Nicholas; Longo, Stefano; Tornatore, Gianpaolo; Esposito, Fabio; Ce, Emiliano; Coratella, Giuseppe] Univ Milan, Dept Biomed Sci Hlth, Milan, Italy; [Coratella, Giuseppe] Univ Milan, Dept Biomed Sci Hlth, Milan, Italy								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:001207653100013	49	Article; Article		
J	van den Tillaar, Roland; Falch, Hallvard Nygaard; Larsen, Stian								Are Diminishing Potentiation and Large Extensor Moments the Cause for the Occurrence of the Sticking Region in Maximum Free-Weight Barbell Back Squats among Resistance-Trained Males?								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				91	1			105	119		10.5114/jhk/185720			MAR 2024	2024	This study compared the kinematics, surface electromyography (sEMG) and kinetics among isometric squats performed at 10 different heights of the upward part and a one -repetition maximum (1-RM) squat. Eleven males (age: 27.5 +/- 3.4 years, body mass: 84.9 +/- 8.1 kg, body height: 1.79 +/- 0.06 m, 1-RM squat: 152.2 +/- 20.55 kg) took part in this study. It was found that force output was lowest in the sticking region at around the event of peak deceleration for the 1RM trial with force output at 2179 +/- 212 N. For the isometric trial, the lowest force output occurred at the lowest barbell height (1735 +/- 299 N). In addition, for the 1-RM condition hip extension moments peaked at the first four barbell heights (6.5-6.2 Nm/kg) representing the pre -sticking and the sticking region before significantly decreasing during the events representing the post -sticking region. Additionally, the sEMG amplitude peaked for the hip extensors at the barbell heights corresponding to the post -sticking region. Moreover, the sEMG amplitude was significantly higher for the 1-RM condition for all hip extensors, vastus lateralis, and calf muscles (F >= 2.7, p <= 0.01, eta p2 >= 0.25). Therefore, we suggest that the sticking region occurs because of reduced force output in the pre -sticking and the sticking region in back squats among resistance -trained males. The reduced force output is probably a combination of suboptimal internal moment arms, lengthtension relationships of the gluteus maximus, hamstring and vastii muscles in the pre -sticking and sticking regions to overcome the large extensor moments together with diminishing potentiation from the pre -sticking to the sticking region.		[van den Tillaar, Roland; Falch, Hallvard Nygaard; Larsen, Stian] Nord Univ, Dept Sports Sci & Phys Educ, Levanger, Norway; [van den Tillaar, Roland] Nord Univ, Dept Sports Sci & Phys Educ, Levanger, Norway								6							Sport Sciences	WOS:001207653100016	28	Article; Article		
J	Sousa, Colby A.; Zourdos, Michael C.; Storey, Adam G.; Helms, Eric R.								The Importance of Recovery in Resistance Training Microcycle Construction								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				91	1			205	223		10.5114/jhk/186659			MAR 2024	2024	Systemic resistance training aims to enhance performance by balancing stress, fatigue and recovery. While fatigue is expected, insufficient recovery may temporarily impair performance. The aim of this review was to examine evidence regarding manipulation of resistance training variables on subsequent effects on recovery and performance. PubMed, Medline, SPORTDiscus, Scopus and CINAHL were searched. Only studies that investigated recovery between resistance training sessions were selected, with a total of 24 articles included for review. Training to failure may lengthen recovery times, potentially impairing performance; however, it may be suitable if implemented strategically ensuring adequate recovery between sessions of similar exercises or muscle groups. Higher volumes may increase recovery demands, especially when paired with training to failure, however, with wide variation in individual responses, it is suggested to start with lower volume, monitor recovery, and gradually increase training volume if appropriate. Exercises emphasising the lower body, multi-joint movements, greater muscle recruitment, eccentric contractions, and/or the lengthened position may require longer recovery times. Adjusting volume and frequency of these exercises can affect recovery demands depending on the goals and training logistics. Daily undulating programming may maximise performance on priority sessions while maintaining purposeful and productive easy days. For example, active recovery in the form of training opposing muscle groups, light aerobic cardio, or low-volume power-type training may improve recovery and potentially elicit a post activation potentiation priming effect compared to passive recovery. However, it is possible that training cessation may be adequate for allowing sufficient recovery prior to sessions of importance.		[Sousa, Colby A.; Storey, Adam G.; Helms, Eric R.] Auckland Univ Technol, Sport Performance Res Inst New Zealand SPRINZ, Auckland, New Zealand; [Zourdos, Michael C.; Helms, Eric R.] Florida Atlantic Univ, Muscle Physiol Lab, Exercise Sci & Hlth Promot, Boca Raton, FL USA; [Sousa, Colby A.] Auckland Univ Technol, Sport Performance Res Inst New Zealand SPRINZ, Auckland, New Zealand								15							Sport Sciences	WOS:001207653100011	82	Article; Article		
J	Poon, Eric Tsz-Chun; Kwan, Wing Lam; Chow, Chi Ching; Chan, Derwin King Chung								Music Timing Differentiates Fatigue Perception and Performance during Isometric Strength Exercises: A Crossover Randomised Trial								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				23	1			258	264		10.52082/jssm.2024.258			MAR 2024	2024	Music is well-known to elicit ergogenic effects on exercise performance; however, the moderating role of application timing remains unclear. This study examined the effects of the timing of music on fatigue perception and performance during isometric strength exercises. Using a within-subject, randomised crossover design, twelve recreationally active young adults performed two isometric strength tasks (plank-hold and wall-sit) in three separate conditions (MEE: music played during the entire exercise task; MDF: music played during fatigue alone; CON: no music). The total time to volitional exhaustion (TTE), time to the onset of fatigue perception (TFP), heart rate, and blood lactate responses were assessed during each trial. MEE resulted in a significantly longer TTE than CON in both the plank-hold (p < 0.05, d = 0.76) and wall-sit exercises (p < 0.05, d = 0.72), whereas MDF led to a significantly longer TTE than CON in wall-sit exercises alone (p < 0.05, d = 0.60). TFP was significantly longer in MEE than in CON in both the plank-hold (p < 0.05, d = 0.54) and wall-sit exercises (p < 0.05, d = 0.64). The music condition did not influence the heart rate or blood lactate changes in any of the trials. Our results suggest that listening to music during the entire exercise can delay the onset of fatigue perception in isometric strength tasks, whereas listening to music during fatigue has only a modest effect. Athletes and exercisers should consider extending music exposure throughout the entire exercise task to maximise performance benefits.		[Poon, Eric Tsz-Chun] Chinese Univ Hong Kong, Dept Sports Sci & Phys Educ, Shatin, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [Poon, Eric Tsz-Chun; Kwan, Wing Lam; Chow, Chi Ching] Educ Univ Hong Kong, Dept Hlth & Phys Educ, Taipo, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [Chan, Derwin King Chung] Educ Univ Hong Kong, Dept Early Childhood Educ, Taipo, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [Poon, Eric Tsz-Chun] Chinese Univ Hong Kong, Dept Sports Sci & Phys Educ, Shatin, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [Poon, Eric Tsz-Chun] Educ Univ Hong Kong, Dept Hlth & Phys Educ, Taipo, Hong Kong, Peoples R China								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:001179849500001	29	Article; Article		
J	Trybulski, Robert; Stanula, Arkadiusz; Zebrowska, Aleksandra; Podlesny, Mieszko; Hall, Barbara								Acute Effects of the Dry Needling Session on Gastrocnemius Muscle Biomechanical Properties, and Perfusion with Latent Trigger Points - A Single-Blind Randomized Controlled Trial in Mixed Martial Arts Athletes								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				23	1			136	146		10.52082/jssm.2024.136			MAR 2024	2024	The study aimed to evaluate the immediate effects of a dry needling (DN) therapy session on biomechanical properties, muscle power, perfusion, and pressure pain threshold of the gastrocnemius muscle with latent trigger points. Twenty mixed martial arts athletes (MMA) were randomly divided into two groups: experimental (eDN, n = 10) and sham (qDN, n = 10) to undergo one session of DN either with a real or a qazi needle. The measurements were taken at rest, 1-5 minutes after the DN (Post15min) and 24h after the DN (Post24h). DN significantly increased the muscle perfusion (Post1-5min and Post24h, p < 0.001), reduced its tone (Post1-5min and Post24h,p < 0.001) and stiffness (Post1-5min, p < 0.05; Post24 h, p < 0.001), and improved its elasticity (Post1-5min and Post24h, p < 0.001). DN also caused a significant increase in pressure pain threshold (Post1-5min, p < 0.001; Post24h,p < 0.05) and in muscle power (Post24h,p < 0.01). The DN session increased the blood perfusion and improved the biomechanical properties of the gastrocnemius muscle, which led to improved muscle power. The DN also had an analgesic effect. These effects were maintained at 24 h, which suggests that DN could facilitate muscle recovery in a post-exercise period of MMA athletes.		[Trybulski, Robert] Wojciech Korfanty Upper Silesian Acad, Med Dept, Katowice, Poland; [Stanula, Arkadiusz] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Inst Sport Sci, Lab Sport Performance Anal, Katowice, Poland; [Zebrowska, Aleksandra; Hall, Barbara] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Sch Physiol Med Sci, Dept Physiol, Katowice, Poland; [Podlesny, Mieszko] Salus Hlth Ctr Slupsk, Slupsk, Poland; [Trybulski, Robert] Univ Upper Siles Wojciech Korfanty, Fac Med, Scouts September 37 St, PL-40065 Katowice, Poland; [Trybulski, Robert] Wojciech Korfanty Upper Silesian Acad, Med Dept, Katowice, Poland; [Trybulski, Robert] Univ Upper Siles Wojciech Korfanty, Fac Med, Scouts September 37 St, PL-40065 Katowice, Poland								19							Sport Sciences	WOS:001154037900001	60	Article; Article		
J	Roberts, Trevor D.; Costa, Pablo B.; Lynn, Scott K.; Coburn, Jared W.								Effects of Percussive Massage Treatments on Symptoms Associated with Eccentric Exercise-Induced Muscle Damage								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				23	1			126	135		10.52082/jssm.2024.126			MAR 2024	2024	Percussive massage (PM) is an emerging recovery treatment de -spite the lack of research on its effects post-eccentric exercise (post-EE). This study investigated the effects of PM treatments (immediately, 24, 48, and 72 h post-EE) on the maximal isometric torque (MIT), range of motion (ROM), and an 11-point numerical rating scale (NRS) of soreness of the nondominant arm's biceps brachii from 24 -72 h post-EE. Seventeen untrained, college-aged subjects performed 60 eccentric elbow flexion actions with their nondominant arms. Nine received 1 minute of PM, versus eight who rested quietly (control [CON]). In order, NRS, ROM, and MIT (relative to body mass) were collected pre-eccentric exercise (pre-EE) and after treatment (AT) at 24, 48, and 72 h post-EE. NRS was also collected before treatment (BT). Electromyo-graphic (EMG) and mechanomyographic (MMG) amplitudes were collected during the MIT and normalized to pre-EE. There were no interactions for MIT, EMG, or MMG, but there were in-teractions for ROM and NRS. For ROM, the PM group had higher values than the CON 24-72 h by-6-8 degrees, a faster return to pre-EE (PM: 48 h, CON: 72 h), and exceeded their pre-EE at 72 h by-4 degrees. The groups' NRS values did not differ BT 24-72 h; however, the PM group lowered their NRS from BT to AT within every visit by-1 point per visit, which resulted in them having lower values than the CON from 24-72 h by-2-3 points. Additionally, the PM group returned their NRS to pre-EE faster than the CON (PM: BT 72 h, CON: never). In conclusion, PM treatments may improve ROM without affecting isometric strength or muscle activation 24 -72 h post-EE. Although the PM treatments did not enhance the recovery from delayed onset muscle soreness until 72 h, they consistently provided immediate, temporary relief when used 24 -72 h post-EE.		[Roberts, Trevor D.; Costa, Pablo B.; Lynn, Scott K.; Coburn, Jared W.] Calif State Univ Fullerton, Ctr Sport Performance & Exercise Physiol Lab, Fullerton, CA 92634 USA; [Coburn, Jared W.] Calif State Univ Fullerton, Dept Kinesiol, Fullerton, CA 92634 USA; [Coburn, Jared W.] Calif State Univ Fullerton, Dept Kinesiol, Fullerton, CA 92634 USA								11							Sport Sciences	WOS:001153066300001	45	Article; Article		
J	Haddad, Toni; Spence, Angela L.; Peiffer, Jeremiah; Blain, Gregory M.; Brisswalter, Jeanick; Abbiss, Chris R.								The Improvement in Exercise Performance during Reduced Muscle Mass Exercise is Associated with an Increase in Femoral Blood Flow in Older and Younger Endurance-Trained Athletes								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				23	1			46	55		10.52082/jssm.2024.46			MAR 2024	2024	This study investigated whether the improved performance observed with maximal self-paced single-leg (SL), compared with double-leg (DL) cycling, is associated with enhanced femoral blood flow and/or altered tissue oxygenation. The hyperaemic re-sponse to exercise was assessed in younger and older athletes. Power output was measured in 12 older (65 +/- 4 y) and 12 younger (35 +/- 5 y) endurance-trained individuals performing 2 x 3 min maximal self-paced exercise using SL and DL cycling. Blood flow (BF) in the femoral artery was assessed using Doppler ultra -sound and muscle oxygenation was measured using near-infrared spectroscopy on the vastus lateralis. SL cycling elicited a greater power output (295 +/- 83 vs 265 +/- 70 W, P < 0.001) and peak fem -oral BF (1749.1 +/- 533.3 vs 1329.7 +/- 391.7 ml/min, P < 0.001) compared with DL cycling. Older individuals had a lower peak BF in response to exercise (1355.4 +/- 385.8 vs 1765.2 +/- 559.6 ml/min, P = 0.019) compared with younger individuals. Peak BF in response to exercise was correlated with power output during SL (r = 0.655, P = 0.002) and DL (r = 0.666, P = 0.001) cycling. The greater exercise performance during SL compared with DL cycling may be partly explained by a greater hyperaemic response when reducing active muscle mass. Despite regular endurance training, older athletes had a lower femoral BF in response to maximal self-paced exercise compared with younger athletes.		[Haddad, Toni; Abbiss, Chris R.] Edith Cowan Univ, Ctr Human Performance, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, Joondalup, WA, Australia; [Haddad, Toni; Blain, Gregory M.; Brisswalter, Jeanick] Univ Cote Azur, LAMHESS, Nice, France; [Spence, Angela L.] Curtin Univ, Curtin Sch Allied Hlth Exercise & Sport Sci Discip, Perth, WA, Australia; [Spence, Angela L.] Curtin Univ, Curtin Hlth Innovat Res Inst, Perth, WA, Australia; [Peiffer, Jeremiah] Murdoch Univ, Ctr Hlth Ageing, Murdoch, WA, Australia; [Haddad, Toni] Edith Cowan Univ, Ctr Human Performance, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, 270 Joondalup Dr, Joondalup, WA 6027, Australia; [Haddad, Toni] Edith Cowan Univ, Ctr Human Performance, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, 270 Joondalup Dr, Joondalup, WA 6027, Australia								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:001148362500001	36	Article; Article		
J	Huang, Yu; Chiu, Weisheng								Let's run green! Impact of runners' environmental consciousness on their green perceived quality and supportive intention at participatory sport events								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				25	3			541	559		10.1108/IJSMS-12-2023-0250			JUL 9 2024	2024	PurposeSustainability is a major global concern, and research has suggested a bidirectional relationship between participatory sport events and the natural environment. Against this background, we examined the influence of runners' environmental consciousness on their perceptions of the quality of green initiatives and their supportive intention at a running event.Design/methodology/approachWe collected questionnaire responses from 496 runners at an event held in Taiwan, and we used partial least squares structural equation modeling for our measurement and structural models.FindingsOur findings revealed that environmental consciousness had a positive relationship with green perceived quality, and that green perceived quality, in turn, positively affected supportive intention. Green perceived quality also mediated the relationship between environmental consciousness and supportive intention, and running frequency moderated the relationship between environmental consciousness and supportive intention.Practical implicationsStakeholders should promote the environmental consciousness of event participants and implement sustainable initiatives to enhance participants' supportive intention towards participatory sport events.Originality/valueThis study contributes to the literature by examining the role of environmental consciousness, green perceived quality and supportive intention in the context of a running event. The findings highlight the importance of environmental sustainability in participatory sport events and provide valuable insights for event organizers and stakeholders in designing and implementing sustainable initiatives.		[Huang, Yu] Natl Tsing Hua Univ, Hsinchu, Taiwan; [Chiu, Weisheng] Hong Kong Metropolitan Univ, Kowloon, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [Chiu, Weisheng] Hong Kong Metropolitan Univ, Kowloon, Hong Kong, Peoples R China								8							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001173471800001	89	Article; Article		
J	Venn-Moncur, Matthew J.; Parmar, Nimai; White, Chris J.; Callingham, Tom; Nicholls, Scott B.								Validating and identifying KPIs in ATP/WTA hard court tennis match play (2019-2023) using the PWOL method								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	5			2127	2135		10.1177/17479541241235595			OCT 2024	2024	The study provided further validity for the use of the PWOL (percentage of matches which the winner outscored the loser) method within elite hard-court tennis. Over half of the ATP/WTA competitive calendar (January-March and August-November) is played on hard courts so is an important progression. Data from 810 men's and 586 women's hard-court matches across Grand Slams and ATP/WTA World Tours (i.e. Masters, 500s and 250s) between 2019 and 2023 was used for analysis. PWOL was validated alongside two traditionally used statistical methods (paired t-test, point-biserial correlation). Very high agreement between all approaches was shown using Spearman's correlation analysis for both men and women (>0.97). The study further identified the indicators most related to winning performance, identifying baseline points won, first serve points won, points won of 0-4 rally length and Winners:UE Ratio to be most strongly associated with success, whilst forced errors were most associated with losing. Ball three indicators lacked association with match outcome, suggesting any major focus training 'one-two punches' on serve should be approached with caution. PWOL has proven to be a valid method for assessing success in elite hard-court tennis (offering potential for wider sports application) to ultimately aid coach decision-making.		[Venn-Moncur, Matthew J.; Parmar, Nimai] Middlesex Univ, London Sport Inst, Fac Sci & Technol, London, England; [Nicholls, Scott B.] Univ Derby, Sch Sport & Exercise Sci, Derby, Derby, England; [White, Chris J.; Callingham, Tom] Natl Tennis Ctr, Lawn Tennis Assoc, London, England; [Nicholls, Scott B.] Univ Derby, Sch Sport & Exercise Sci, Derby, Derby, England								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001176820800001	39	Article; Article		
J	Lang, Diandong; Wang, Fei; Wang, Nianhui; Yang, Tao								Key technical factors for elite 50 m rifle 3 positions shooting performance								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	12			3279	3289		10.1080/14763141.2024.2319130			DEC 1 2024	2024	The purpose of this study was to analyse the differences on the shooting score and shooting technical parameters with 50 m rifle three positions, and to find the key technical factors of shooting performance in international-level 50 m rifle shooters. A SCATT MX-02 optoelectronic shooting test system was used to collect shooting score and shooting technical variables. There was a significant effect of shooting position in shooting performance, aiming accuracy, stability of hold, stability of triggering (ANOVA, position, p < 0.05). PCA identified four principal components from 8 shooting technical variables, namely stability of hold, aiming accuracy, stability of triggering and aiming time. PCR indicated that these four components were able to account for 67.1% of the variance in standing shooting, 75.9% in kneeling, and 80.2% in prone. From these, the aiming ability was the most important component, which could explain 28.5% of the variance in standing shooting, 38.4% in kneeling, and 33.8% in prone. With the help of optoelectronic training system, these components should be in focus by coaches and athletes when conducting tests and training.		[Lang, Diandong; Wang, Nianhui; Yang, Tao] Linyi Univ, Sch Phys Educ & Hlth, Linyi, Peoples R China; [Wang, Fei] Linyi Tradit Chinese Med Hosp, Obstetr Dept, Linyi, Peoples R China; [Yang, Tao] Linyi Univ, Sch Phys Educ & Hlth, Linyi, Peoples R China								2							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001172868100001	19	Article; Article		
J	Ozaydin, Selcuk; Konecke, Thomas								Match-Level Uncertainty in Professional Tennis Revisited-A Novel Approach Applied for the Time Between 2010 and 2019								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				25	4			507	532		10.1177/15270025241233549			MAY 2024	2024	Despite its popularity, outcome uncertainty in professional tennis did not receive much attention from academics in the recent past. This is astonishing because it should be of utmost importance in professional tennis in the following years with the approaching end of the era of the Big 3. This study investigates match-level uncertainty in professional women's and men's tennis between 2010 and 2019 using a logit model with a dataset consisting of 51,054 matches. In the different analyses, the variations in the ranking and quality differences between players are taken into account in addition to differences across surfaces, tournaments, and genders. In the investigated period, women's tennis has relatively higher outcome uncertainty when compared to men's. The results also illustrate that talent seems to be distributed more evenly in women's tennis, whereas men's tennis has high heterogeneity in terms of talent. Moreover, very specific subgroups of matches having the highest and lowest uncertainty in men's and women's tennis are identified. Managerial implications are also presented to show how organizers, policy makers and, eventually, fans can benefit from the insights presented in this study.		[Ozaydin, Selcuk] Istanbul Bilgi Univ, Dept Sports Management, Istanbul, Turkiye; [Konecke, Thomas] Dept Movement Sci, KU Leuven, Leuven, Belgium; [Ozaydin, Selcuk] Istanbul Bilgi Univ, Dept Sports Management, KazımKarabekir St : 2-3, TR-34060 Istanbul, Turkiye; [Ozaydin, Selcuk] Istanbul Bilgi Univ, Dept Sports Management, KazımKarabekir St : 2-3, TR-34060 Istanbul, Turkiye								1							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001173489000001	46	Article; Article		
J	Santos, Fernando; Clemente, Filipe Manuel; Sarmento, Hugo; Ferreira, Catia; Figueiredo, Teresa; Hernandez-Beltran, Victor; Gamonales, Jose M.; Espada, Mario								External load of different format small-sided games in youth football players in relation to age								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	5			2024	2034		10.1177/17479541241231485			OCT 2024	2024	Background: Monitoring of training tasks allows coaches to have a better knowledge of the loads applied to their players. Objectives: The aim of this study was to analyze the variations in external load in small-sided games (SSGs) with young players U-12, U-15, and U-23 and compare the external load between age categories in each of the SSGs. Methods: A group of 24 male soccer players performed five consecutive different formats of four vs. four SSGs composed of 3 minutes of play/rest. GPS devices were used during the tasks (WIMU PRO (TM)). The data were analyzed using IBM SPSS Statistics 28.0, using descriptive statistics, graphical statistics, and ANOVA to compare the results between SSGs and between age groups. Results: The increase in field areas promotes the increase of distance (DIST) covered and the high metabolic load distance (HMLd), with and without a goalkeeper (GK). The SSGs with GK recorded fewer PL values compared to SSGs without GK. In the U-12 and U-15 age groups, GK use promotes more acceleration (AC) and deceleration (DEC) of high intensity (>3 m/s(2)). The results also show that the larger areas are promoters of high-speed running (HSR). Age influences some external load variables (DIST, AC, DEC, HMLd) in the game formats studied. Conclusions: The SSG formats analyzed using GK are promoters of high-intensity neuromuscular activity. Larger areas promote more high-speed displacement. Age is an influence on the external load in different SSGs.		[Santos, Fernando; Ferreira, Catia; Figueiredo, Teresa; Espada, Mario] Inst Politecn Setubal, Escola Super Educ, Setubal, Portugal; [Santos, Fernando] Univ Lisbon, Fac Motricidade Humana, Lisbon, Portugal; [Santos, Fernando; Figueiredo, Teresa; Espada, Mario] Life Qual Res Ctr CIEQV IPSetubal, Rio Maior, Portugal; [Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Inst Politecn Viana Castelo, Escola Super Desporto & Lazer, Viana Do Castelo, Portugal; [Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, Dept Biomech & Sport Engn, Gdansk, Poland; [Sarmento, Hugo] Univ Coimbra, Portugal Univ Coimbra, Fac Sport Sci & Phys Educ, Res Unit Sport & Phys Act CIDAF, Coimbra, Portugal; [Ferreira, Catia; Hernandez-Beltran, Victor; Gamonales, Jose M.] Training Optimizat & Sports Performance Res Grp, Caceres, Spain; [Gamonales, Jose M.] Univ Francisco Vitoria, Fac Hlth Sci, Madrid, Spain; [Espada, Mario] Interdisciplinary Ctr Study Human Performance, Lisbon, Portugal; [Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Sport Phys Act & Hlth Res & Innovat Ctr, Viana Do Castelo, Portugal; [Ferreira, Catia; Figueiredo, Teresa; Espada, Mario] Sport Phys act & Hlth Res & Innovat Ctr, Rio Maior, Portugal; [Espada, Mario] Univ Evora, Comprehens Hlth Res Ctr CHRC, Evora, Portugal; [Santos, Fernando] Inst Politecn Setubal, Escola Super Educ, Campus IPS Estefanilha, P-2910761 Setubal, Portugal; [Santos, Fernando] Inst Politecn Setubal, Escola Super Educ, Campus IPS Estefanilha, P-2910761 Setubal, Portugal								18							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001174030600001	52	Article; Article		
J	Burns, Lauren; Stanimirovic, Rosanna; Donaldson, Alex								Characteristics of successful performance support team members at the Olympic games								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	5			1950	1960		10.1177/17479541241227685			OCT 2024	2024	Objectives Athletes and coaches rely on their performance support team to optimise training and competition. The specific characteristics of performance support teams that contribute to success in competition from the perspective of athletes and coaches have not been examined. Olympic gold medal winning athletes and coaches were asked about the characteristics they valued in the performance support team members who were with them at the Olympic Games. The insights shared provide important context to the role of the performance support team member, beyond technical skills, in the high-stress environment of elite sporting competition.Methods Concept mapping was completed online to collect, analyse, and visually represent insights from 30 Olympic gold medal winning athletes and coaches. The concept mapping focus prompt used to generate insights from participants was 'When I reflect on my gold medal winning performance, a characteristic that I really valued within my support team was horizontal ellipsis .'. Athletes then brainstormed, sorted, and rated relevant statements.Results Multidimensional scaling and hierarchical cluster analysis produced an 8-cluster map - Way of Working, Communication Style, Emotional Management in Competition, Teamwork, Commitment to Athlete Preparation, Professionalism, Embracing the Experience, and Equality - as the best visual representation of the way participants sorted the 49 unique brainstormed statements.Conclusions Olympic gold medal winning athletes and coaches prioritised ways of working, communication style, emotional management, and teamwork as the characteristics they valued most in their performance support team. These constructs, when further examined by item, encourage performance support staff to develop emotional management skills to (a) strengthen interpersonal relationships within the team, (b) enhance the working alliance with athletes and coaches, and (c) contribute to team performance overall. Concept mapping provided a structured way of collecting lived experience insights that may compliment other qualitative approaches such as structured interviews.		[Burns, Lauren] Southern Cross Univ, Hlth & Biomed Sci, Lismore, Australia; [Stanimirovic, Rosanna] Australian Inst Sport, Belconnen, Australia; [Donaldson, Alex] La Trobe Univ, Ctr Sport & Social Impact, Melbourne, Australia; [Burns, Lauren] Southern Cross Univ, Hlth & Biomed Sci, Lismore, Australia								10							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001168749800001	35	Article; Article		
J	Quintana-Cepedal, Marcos; Roces-Vila, Isaac; del Valle, Miguel; Olmedillas, Hugo								Epidemiology of injuries in elite female rink hockey players: A two season observational study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				67				7	12		10.1016/j.ptsp.2024.02.002			MAY 2024	2024	Objectives: To record the time -loss injuries of female rink hockey players and describe the affected region, tissue, and onset of injury. Design: Cross-sectional survey study. Setting: First (Ok Liga) and Second (Plata) division clubs. Participants: 280 player -seasons. Main outcome measures: Incidence of overall, training, and match injuries (number of injuries per 1000 h) from two seasons. Results: A total of 229 injuries occurred in 56,438 h of exposure. The overall incidence was 4 injuries per 1000 h (4/1000 h), with a significantly higher rate of injuries during matches (15.2/1000 h) compared to training sessions (2.6/1000 h) (p < 0.001). Injuries affecting the lower limb were the most common (2.3/1000 h), followed by upper limb (1.2/1000 h), and head/trunk (0.6/1000 h). The tissue with the highest incidence of injury was the muscle/tendon (1.3/1000 h), followed by the ligament (0.8/1000 h). Around one in every three injuries (31%) affected either the thigh or hip/groin (73 injuries). Conclusions: The injury incidence in elite female rink hockey is moderate and occurs mainly during match sessions. Preventative measurements should be implemented in rink hockey with a special concern for injuries affecting the thigh, and hip/groin.		[Quintana-Cepedal, Marcos; Roces-Vila, Isaac; Olmedillas, Hugo] Univ Oviedo, Dept Funct Biol, Oviedo, Spain; [Quintana-Cepedal, Marcos; del Valle, Miguel; Olmedillas, Hugo] Asturian Res Grp Performance Readaptat Training &, Oviedo, Spain; [del Valle, Miguel] Univ Oviedo, Dept Cellular Morphol & Biol, Oviedo, Spain; [Olmedillas, Hugo] Univ Oviedo, Dept Funct Biol, Oviedo, Spain								4							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001188864600001	36	Article; Article		
J	Butler, Lauren; Greenberg, Elliot; Giampetruzzi, Nicholas; Link, Meredith; Prati, Victor; Weaver, Adam; Saper, Michael								Comparison of physical therapy utilization, timing of return-to-sport test completion, and hop test performance by age and between sexes in youth athletes after anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				67				1	6		10.1016/j.ptsp.2024.02.004			MAY 2024	2024	Objective: To compare physical therapy (PT) utilization, timing of return -to -sport (RTS) test and hop test performance by age and between sexes in youth after anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction (ACLR). Design: Multicenter retrospective cohort. Methods: A retrospective review of adolescents after primary ACLR was conducted. Participants completed return -to -sport (RTS) tests including single -legged hop testing. PT frequency, average weekly visits, and timing of RTS test were calculated. T -tests assessed the effect of age and sex on average weekly PT visits and multivariable logistic regressions assessed odds of passing hop tests. Results: 289 participants were included (15.7 +/- 1.9 years). There was no difference in average weekly PT visits (p = 0.321) or time to RTS test (p = 0.162) by age. There were significant differences in average weekly PT visits (p = 0.047) and mean time from surgery to RTS test (p = 0.048) between sexes with small effect sizes (d = 0.24 and d = 0.21, respectively). Age and sex had no effect on odds of passing hop tests (OR, 1.29; 95% CI, 0.71-2.35 and OR, 0.79; 95%CI, 0.43-1.45, respectively). Conclusion: In a youth cohort, age and sex may have no clinically important effect on PT visit utilization, timing of RTS test or hop test performance.		[Butler, Lauren] Florida Int Univ, 11200 SW 8th St, Miami, FL 33199 USA; [Butler, Lauren] Nicklaus Childrens Hosp, Miami, FL USA; [Greenberg, Elliot; Link, Meredith] Childrens Hosp Philadelphia, Philadelphia, PA USA; [Giampetruzzi, Nicholas; Weaver, Adam] Connecticut Childrens Med Ctr, Hartford, CT USA; [Prati, Victor] Arkansas Childrens Hosp, Little Rock, AR USA; [Saper, Michael] Seattle Childrens, Seattle, WA USA; [Butler, Lauren] Florida Int Univ, 11200 SW 8th St, Miami, FL 33199 USA								5							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001203666400001	37	Article; Article		
J	Yamakawa, Keisuke Kobayashi; Nishiwaki, Rena; Takeda, Tsuyoshi								Effects of different initial speeds on subsequent glide and underwater undulatory swimming								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	6			1660	1677		10.1080/14763141.2024.2319127			JUN 3 2025	2025	This study aimed to investigate the effect of different initial speeds on the performance during underwater undulatory swimming (UUS). The study included 13 female swimmers. Each participant was asked to perform a 15-m maximum UUS, starting with four different push-off speeds. The experiment was recorded using three underwater cameras; subsequently, a two-dimensional motion analysis was conducted. Statistical parametric mapping (SPM) was employed to identify the position where the UUS velocity stabilised. The findings revealed a significant difference in the average swimming velocities during the first cycle of UUS, which was attributed to the variation in initial speed (p < 0.05) while there is no significant difference in the middle and final cycles. The results of SPM analysis suggested that differences in UUS velocity became negligible after approximately 6-m position from the pool wall, regardless of variations in push-off velocity. Furthermore, it was confirmed that swimmers can reach their maximum achievable UUS velocity at approximately 5-m position, even if they fail to execute an effective push-off from the wall. These findings offer valuable insights for future UUS studies, specifically in choosing suitable cycles for analysis.		[Yamakawa, Keisuke Kobayashi] Japan Womens Coll Phys Educ, Dept Sports & Hlth Sci, Tokyo, Japan; [Nishiwaki, Rena] Japan Womens Coll Phys Educ, Dept Sports Sci, Tokyo, Japan; [Takeda, Tsuyoshi] Juntendo Univ, Fac Hlth & Sports Sci, Inzai, Japan; [Yamakawa, Keisuke Kobayashi] Japan Womens Coll Phys Educ, Dept Sports & Hlth Sci, Tokyo, Japan								6							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001171553900001	31	Article; Article		
J	Akoglu, Halil Erdem; Ozbek, Oguz								Online purchase behavior of sports consumers: the effect of eWOM and celebrity endorsements								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				25	3			499	523		10.1108/IJSMS-09-2023-0193			JUL 9 2024	2024	PurposeThe aim of this research is to measure the impact of eWOM (electronic word of mouth) and brand celebrity use on the purchasing behavior of sports consumers.Design/methodology/approachTo test the model hypotheses, sports consumers who use social media and have purchased at least one online sports product were selected as the research group. Online survey method was used, and 836 participants were reached. The model was tested with structural equation modeling (SEM) through smart PLS software.FindingsAs a result, the quality, credibility and usefulness of the information consumers encounter on online platforms cause them to adopt information about products or services, and then exhibit online purchase behavior. While the attractiveness and trustworthiness of celebrities are seen as important factors affecting consumers' online purchase of sports products, the effect of celebrity expertise was found to be ineffective in this study.Practical implicationsMarketers can develop more effective eWOM strategies by considering consumers' expectations. Businesses that want to implement an effective marketing strategy may prefer celebrities in product promotions or advertisements of their brands.Originality/valueThis research revealed the effect of eWOM and celebrity endorsement on the online purchase behavior of sports consumers in terms of the sports industry. Unlike previous studies, this study examined these variables together on sports consumers and contributed to the development of models.		[Akoglu, Halil Erdem] Nigde Omer Halisdemir Univ, Fac Sports Sci, Dept Sport Management, Nigde, Turkiye; [Ozbek, Oguz] Ankara Univ, Fac Sports Sci, Dept Sport Management, Ankara, Turkiye; [Akoglu, Halil Erdem] Nigde Omer Halisdemir Univ, Fac Sports Sci, Dept Sport Management, Nigde, Turkiye								11							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001162837400001	115	Article; Article		
J	Mise, Takao; Kurita, Takeyasu; Kamakari, Shohei; Akuzawa, Hiroshi; Oshikawa, Tomoki; Matsunaga, Naoto; Kaneoka, Koji								Does scapular dysfunction alter scapular muscles activity and kinematics during swim stroke motion on adolescent swimmers?								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	11			3344	3357		10.1080/14763141.2024.2315257			NOV 2 2025	2025	Scapular dyskinesis (SD) indicates dysfunction of the scapular muscle activity during the arm elevation, resulting in altered scapular kinematics. This study examined whether SD alters scapular muscle activity and kinematics during swim stroke motion. Seventeen swimmers (mean age: 13 +/- 1 years) were divided into SD (n = 8) and control (n = 9) groups. Scapular muscle activity (the upper, middle, and lower trapezius and the serratus anterior muscle) and kinematics data were collected and time-normalised (0-100%) during swim stroke motion by swim-bench on land. Scapular kinematics were calculated for upward rotation, internal rotation, posterior tilt, and arm elevation angles. To compare patterns of muscle activity and kinematics with and without SD, statistical parametric mapping unpaired t-test was used. The scapular upward rotation angle was decreased in SD compared to control in the 0-10% of the swim stroke phase (p = 0.041, t* = 3.018), and the internal rotation angle was increased in 0-15% of the phase (p = 0.033, t* = 2.994). Scapular posterior tilt and muscle activity showed no significant differences. These results suggested that SD altered scapular upward rotation and internal rotation at the initial phase of the swim stroke motion in adolescent swimmers and might potentially provoke a risk of subacromial impingement.		[Mise, Takao] Niigata Univ Hlth & Welf, Dept Hlth & Sports, Niigata, Japan; [Kurita, Takeyasu] Osaka Yukioka Coll Hlth Sci, Dept Phys Therapy, Osaka, Japan; [Kamakari, Shohei] Minamitani Clin, Dept Rehabil, Toyonaka, Japan; [Akuzawa, Hiroshi] Niigata Univ Hlth & Welf, Dept Phys Therapy, Niigata, Japan; [Oshikawa, Tomoki; Kaneoka, Koji] Waseda Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Tokorozawa, Japan; [Matsunaga, Naoto] Seigakuin Univ, Gen Educ Core Curriculum Div, Saitama, Japan; [Kaneoka, Koji] Waseda Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Tokorozawa, Japan								1							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001169187200001	45	Article; Article		
J	Leyhr, Daniel; Roesch, David; Cumming, Sean P.; Hoener, Oliver								Selection-Dependent Differences in Youth Elite Basketball Players' Relative Age, Maturation-Related Characteristics, and Motor Performance								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				95	3			775	788		10.1080/02701367.2024.2311644			JUL 2 2024	2024	Purpose: The aim of the present study was to investigate the influence of players' relative age, maturation-related characteristics, and motor performance tests on two different stages of talent selection (regional and national level) in youth elite basketball. Methods: Relative age, maturation-related variables (height, weight, maturity offset, maturity timing) and motor performance (Countermovement jump, Standing long jump, Modified agility T-test, Linear sprint 20 m) of N = 68 male youth basketball players (Mage = 14.39 +/- 0.28 years) were assessed during the initial selection tournament for the German U15 national team. Pre-selection biases regarding relative age and maturity timing on the regional level were investigated utilizing one-sample t-tests. Differences in relative age, maturation-related characteristics and motor performance between players selected (n = 27) and non-selected (n = 41) for the youth national team were examined via independent samples' t-tests and logistic regression analyses. Results: Strong pre-selection biases toward early-born and early-maturing players were confirmed on the regional level. Significant advantages in height and weight and higher values in maturity offset and maturity timing were found for selected players. Among the motor variables, only Countermovement jump performance was significantly better in selected players. When controlling for relative age and biological maturation regression models including motor performance variables did not significantly discriminate players' selection status. Conclusion: Coaches working in national, but also preceding selection stages (regional and club level) should raise their awareness to relative age and biological maturation when evaluating players' potential and current (motor) performance.		[Leyhr, Daniel; Roesch, David; Hoener, Oliver] Eberhard Karls Univ Tubingen, Tubingen, Germany; [Cumming, Sean P.] Univ Bath, Bath, England; [Leyhr, Daniel] Eberhard Karls Univ Tubingen, Inst Sports Sci, Wilhelmstr 124, D-72074 Tubingen, Germany; [Leyhr, Daniel] Eberhard Karls Univ Tubingen, Methods Ctr, Wilhelmstr 124, D-72074 Tubingen, Germany; [Leyhr, Daniel] Eberhard Karls Univ Tubingen, Inst Sports Sci, Wilhelmstr 124, D-72074 Tubingen, Germany; [Leyhr, Daniel] Eberhard Karls Univ Tubingen, Methods Ctr, Wilhelmstr 124, D-72074 Tubingen, Germany								21							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001160729100001	101	Article; Article		
J	Tan, Si Heng Sharon; Kwan, Yiu Tsun; Lee, Joel Zhao Jie; Yeo, Lincoln Kai Pheng; Lim, Andrew Kean Seng; Hui, James Hoipo								Patellar tilt, congruence angle, and tibial tubercle-trochlear groove distance are correlated with positive J-sign in adolescents								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				52	5			492	496		10.1080/00913847.2024.2315012			SEP 2 2024	2024	PurposeThe J-sign is a clinical evaluation tool that assesses for patellar maltracking and is considered positive if lateral translation of the patella in extension, in the pattern of an inverted J is observed. This study aims to determine the association of clinical J-sign with imaging features noted on dynamic kinematic computed tomography (DKCT).MethodsA retrospective review was conducted by reviewing the clinical records of all patients aged 18 years or younger who had a CT patellar tracking scan done between 1 January 2005 to 31 December 2016 in a single institution. Patients who had the presence or absence of a 'J-sign' evaluated clinically were included. Radiographic parameters evaluated using the axial cuts include the patellar tilt angle, congruence angle, Dejour's classification, femoral sulcus angle, trochlear groove depth, and Wiberg's classification. Patients were then divided into two groups based on the presence or absence of J-sign on clinical examination. The radiographic measurements were then analyzed for association with the presence or absence of J-sign on clinical examination.ResultsPatients with a positive J-sign had an increased patellar tilt of 23.3 degrees +/- 14.2 degrees and an increased congruence angle of 47.1 degrees +/- 28.5 degrees when measured in extension as compared to a patellar tilt of 18.3 degrees +/- 10.8 degrees and a congruence angle of 32.1 degrees +/- 20.8 degrees in patients with a negative J-sign (p = 0.024 and 0.004, respectively). Comparisons of the change in congruence angles with the knee in full extension and at 20 degrees flexion also yielded significantly higher change of 28.0 degrees +/- 20.4 degrees in patients with a positive J-sign as compared to 11.9 degrees +/- 17.5 degrees in patients with a negative J-sign. Patients with a positive J-sign also had an increased TT-TG distance of 17.6 +/- 5.6 mm as compared to a TT-TG distance of 14.7 +/- 6.9 mm in patients with a negative J-sign (p = 0.01).ConclusionPatients with a positive J-sign had an increased patellar tilt and an increased congruence angle when measured in extension. Increased TT-TG distance was also significantly associated with positive J-sign. Patients with a positive J-sign also had a greater change in their congruence angle when measured with the knee in full extension and at 20 degrees of flexion.		[Tan, Si Heng Sharon; Kwan, Yiu Tsun; Lee, Joel Zhao Jie; Yeo, Lincoln Kai Pheng; Lim, Andrew Kean Seng; Hui, James Hoipo] Natl Univ Hlth Syst, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Singapore, Singapore; [Tan, Si Heng Sharon] Natl Univ Singapore, Dept Orthopaed Surg, NUHS Tower Block Level 11,1E Kent Ridge Rd, Singapore 119228, Singapore; [Tan, Si Heng Sharon] Natl Univ Singapore, Dept Orthopaed Surg, NUHS Tower Block Level 11,1E Kent Ridge Rd, Singapore 119228, Singapore								9							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001159887000001	45	Article; Article		
J	Annesi, James J.; Powell, Sara M.								Carry-Over of Exercise-Related Self-Regulation to Eating-Related Self-Regulation in Women Participating in Behavioral Obesity Treatments								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				95	3			789	794		10.1080/02701367.2024.2311652			JUL 2 2024	2024	Purpose: Because obesity has not responded well to instructing affected adults in healthier eating behaviors and increased physical activity/exercise, enhanced research on psychosocial determinants of those behavioral changes is needed. Intervention foci on self-regulation have been suggested, but targeted research is required. Method: Women with obesity participated in community-based treatments that were either self-regulation-focused (self-regulation emphasis group; n = 52) or typical instruction-based (education [treatment-as-usual] group; n = 54). Results: There were overall significant increases in exercise-related self-regulation, physical activity/exercise, exercise-related self-efficacy, and eating-related self-regulation that were each significantly more pronounced in the self-regulation emphasis group. Increase in exercise-related self-regulation over 3 months predicted eating-related self-regulation over 6 months; however, sequential entry of changes in physical activity and exercise-related self-efficacy significantly mediated that relationship. However, only the path from changes in exercise-related self-regulation to exercise self-efficacy to eating-related self-regulation was significant. In a revised model where change in exercise self-efficacy was the sole mediator, treatment group did not significantly moderate the exercise self-regulation to eating self-regulation change relationship, but full mediation of that relationship occurred. Conclusion: Findings indicated salience for perceived ability/self-efficacy for physical activity, over actual physical activity progress, and its role in the transfer of self-regulatory skills from an exercise to eating context. Increased eating self-regulation significantly predicted weight loss over 6, 12, and 24 months. In the self-regulation emphasis group that translated to meaningful weight loss/weight-loss maintenance of greater than 5% of initial weight. Findings contributed to an increased understanding of psychosocial-change processes within obesity treatment research.		[Annesi, James J.; Powell, Sara M.] Calif State Univ, Fullerton, CA USA; [Annesi, James J.] Cent Coast YMCA, Monterey, CA USA; [Annesi, James J.] Cent Coast YMCA, 600 Camino El Estero, Monterey, CA 93940 USA; [Annesi, James J.] Cent Coast YMCA, 600 Camino El Estero, Monterey, CA 93940 USA								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001157167600001	26	Article; Article		
J	Smeeton, Nicholas J.; Meyer, Johannes; Varga, Matyas; Klatt, Stefanie								Is Anticipation Skill Learning Bayesian?								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				95	3			664	679		10.1080/02701367.2023.2294100			JUL 2 2024	2024	Purpose: The aims of this study were to examine the learning of anticipation skill in the presence of kinematic and outcome probabilities information, and to see if this learning exhibited characteristics of Bayesian integration. Method: Participants with no competitive tennis playing experience watched tennis player stimuli playing forehand tennis shots and were tasked with predicted shot outcomes. Accuracy, response times and perceived task effort were recorded, pre, post and during four acquisition blocks where outcome feedback was provided. In both Experiment 1 and 2, kinematic information about shot direction was either present in the training group stimuli or absent. In Experiment 1, left/right shot probability information remained equi-probable for both groups. In Experiment 2, both groups also trained with a bias in the shot outcome probability toward one shot direction on 80% of the trials across acquisition blocks (and were not told about this manipulation). Results: Pre-to-post anticipation performance improved in the presence of kinematic (EXP 1) or both information sources (EXP 2). Pre-to-post improvements in the presence of shot outcome probability information were congruent with the bias in the shot direction trained (EXP 2). Superior anticipation performance was found when both information sources were present. The presence of kinematic information resulted in increased perceived effort during early training (EXP 1 & 2). Bayesian odds ratios indicated that shot direction probabilities and kinematic information were integrated during anticipation skill learning. Conclusion: Learning with shot direction probabilities and kinematic information shows characteristics of Bayesian integration.		[Smeeton, Nicholas J.; Varga, Matyas; Klatt, Stefanie] Univ Brighton, Welkin Labs, Sport & Exercise Sci & Sports Med Res & Enterprise, Eastbourne BN20 7SR, England; [Meyer, Johannes; Klatt, Stefanie] German Sport Univ Cologne, Cologne, Germany; [Smeeton, Nicholas J.] Univ Brighton, Welkin Labs, Sport & Exercise Sci & Sports Med Res & Enterprise, Eastbourne BN20 7SR, England								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001157154900001	52	Article; Article		
J	Santabarbara, Kimberly; Helms, Eric; Armour, Mike; Harris, Nigel								Menstrual cycle characteristics, hormonal contraceptive use and perceptions of related effects in resistance-trained athletes								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	4			1570	1577		10.1177/17479541241228986			AUG 2024	2024	There has been an increased interest in the effects the menstrual cycle (MC) may have on sports performance. As a part of the MC, many females experience a wide range of symptoms related to hormonal fluctuations and menstrual bleeding, including physical pain and mood disturbances. Currently, there is a lack of data on the MCs of females who participate in resistance training. The dearth of information on the regular MC in female athletes may lead to poorly informed training recommendations which may be detrimental for female athletic advancement. The purpose of this survey was to determine the average MC characteristics, hormonal contraceptive (HC) use and perceived effects of the MC on training in resistance-trained athletes, and to determine if there are differences in these variables when comparing recreationally trained women to competitive-level athletes. A survey addressing questions about the MC, HC use and perceived effects of the MC was accessed by 906 participants who self-identified as resistance-trained athletes. Resistance-trained athletes, competitive or not, experience MCs similar to data on other exercising females and the general population. MC symptoms are widespread and, for some, can be quite severe and limiting. Competitive athletes were not more likely to experience MC irregularities than non-competitive females. Nearly half of the participants reported using HCs. Most participants perceived that their MC had a negative effect on their performance and that their MC caused reductions in training load or workout program adherence, although most competitive-level athletes did not withdraw from competitions due to MC symptoms.		[Santabarbara, Kimberly; Helms, Eric] Auckland Univ Technol, Sport Performance Res Inst New Zealand SPRINZ, 17 Antares Pl, Auckland 0632, New Zealand; [Santabarbara, Kimberly] Calif State Polytech Univ Pomona, Dept Kinesiol & Hlth Promot, Pomona, CA USA; [Helms, Eric] Florida Atlantic Univ, Dept Exercise Sci & Hlth Promot, Muscle Physiol Lab, Boca Raton, FL USA; [Armour, Mike] Western Sydney Univ, NICM Hlth Res Inst, Sydney, Australia; [Armour, Mike] Med Res Inst New Zealand MRINZ, Wellington, New Zealand; [Harris, Nigel] Auckland Univ Technol, Human Potential Ctr, Auckland, New Zealand; [Santabarbara, Kimberly] Auckland Univ Technol, Sport Performance Res Inst New Zealand SPRINZ, 17 Antares Pl, Auckland 0632, New Zealand								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001160223000001	31	Article; Article		
J	Park, Juho; Cho, Junghwan; Lee, Hyun-Woo; Gang, Alex C.; Pedersen, Paul M.								Machine learning prediction of factors affecting Major League Baseball (MLB) game attendance: algorithm comparisons and macroeconomic factor of unemployment								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				25	2			382	395		10.1108/IJSMS-06-2023-0129			MAR 19 2024	2024	PurposeThis study aims to identify an automated machine learning algorithm with high accuracy that sport practitioners can use to identify the specific factors for predicting Major League Baseball (MLB) attendance. Furthermore, by predicting spectators for each league (American League and National League) and division in MLB, the authors will identify the specific factors that increase accuracy, discuss them and provide implications for marketing strategies for academics and practitioners in sport.Design/methodology/approachThis study used six years of daily MLB game data (2014-2019). All data were collected as predictors, such as game performance, weather and unemployment rate. Also, the attendance rate was obtained as an observation variable. The Random Forest, Lasso regression models and XGBoost were used to build the prediction model, and the analysis was conducted using Python 3.7.FindingsThe RMSE value was 0.14, and the R2 was 0.62 as a consequence of fine-tuning the tuning parameters of the XGBoost model, which had the best performance in forecasting the attendance rate. The most influential variables in the model are "Rank" of 0.247 and "Day of the week", "Home team" and "Day/Night game" were shown as influential variables in order. The result was shown that the "Unemployment rate", as a macroeconomic factor, has a value of 0.06 and weather factors were a total value of 0.147.Originality/valueThis research highlights unemployment rate as a determinant affecting MLB game attendance rates. Beyond contextual elements such as climate, the findings of this study underscore the significance of economic factors, particularly unemployment rates, necessitating further investigation into these factors to gain a more comprehensive understanding of game attendance.		[Park, Juho] Korea Inst Sport Sci, Seoul, South Korea; [Cho, Junghwan] Halla Univ, Wonju, South Korea; [Cho, Junghwan] Washington State Univ, Dept Educ Leadership & Sport Management, Pullman, WA USA; [Lee, Hyun-Woo] Texas A&M Univ, Dept Hlth & Kinesiol, College Stn, TX USA; [Pedersen, Paul M.] Indiana Univ, Sch Publ Hlth, Dept Kinesiol, Bloomington, IN USA; [Cho, Junghwan] Halla Univ, Wonju, South Korea								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001157783500001	38	Article; Article		
J	Brunelli, Diego T.; Bonfante, Ivan L. P.; Boldrini, Vinicius O.; Scolfaro, Pedro G.; Duft, Renata G.; Mateus, Keryma; Fatori, Raphael F.; Chacon-Mikahil, Mara P. T.; Farias, Alessandro S.; Teixeira, Ana M.; Cavaglieri, Claudia R.								Combined Training Improves Gene Expression Related to Immunosenescence in Obese Type 2 Diabetic Individuals								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				95	3			730	739		10.1080/02701367.2023.2299716			JUL 2 2024	2024	Purpose: The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of moderate combined training (CT) on both the gene expression of pro- and anti-inflammatory markers and senescence in the immune system in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) and subcutaneous adipose tissue (SAT) of obese middle-aged individuals with type 2 diabetes (T2D). Methods: Thirty obese individuals (50.2 +/- 9.4 years; body mass index: 31.8 +/- 2.3 kg/m(2)) with T2D underwent 16 weeks of a CT group [CT; aerobic (50-60% of VO2max) plus resistance (50-75% of 1RM) training; 3 times/week, 70 min/session; n = 16)] or a control group (CG, n = 14). Nutritional patterns, muscle strength (1RM), cardiorespiratory fitness (VO2max), waist circumference (WC), body composition (Air Displacement Plethysmograph) and blood collections for biochemical (serum leptin, IL-2, IL-4, IL-6, IL-10, TNF-alpha and anti-CMV) and molecular (gene expression of leptin, IL-2, IL-4, IL-6, IL-10, TNF-alpha, PD-1, P16ink4a, CCR7, CD28 and CD27 in PBMCs and SAT) analyses were assessed before (Pre) and after (Post) the 16 weeks of the experimental period. Results: Significant decreases were observed in WC and IL4, TNF-alpha, PD-1 and CD27 expression in PBMCs for CT. Furthermore, significant increases were observed in 1RM and VO2max for CT after the experimental period. Conclusion: Moderate CT contributed to a reduction in the gene expression of markers associated to chronic inflammation and immunosenescence in PBMCs of obese middle-aged individuals with T2D.		[Brunelli, Diego T.; Bonfante, Ivan L. P.; Scolfaro, Pedro G.; Duft, Renata G.; Mateus, Keryma; Fatori, Raphael F.; Chacon-Mikahil, Mara P. T.; Cavaglieri, Claudia R.] Univ Campinas UNICAMP, Campinas, Brazil; [Boldrini, Vinicius O.; Farias, Alessandro S.] Univ Estadual Campinas, Campinas, Brazil; [Teixeira, Ana M.] Univ Coimbra, Coimbra, Portugal; [Brunelli, Diego T.] Univ Campinas UNICAMP, Fac Phys Educ, Exercise Physiol Lab FISEX, Ave Erico Verissimo,701 Cidade Univ Zeferino Vaz, BR-13083851 Campinas, SP, Brazil; [Brunelli, Diego T.] Univ Campinas UNICAMP, Fac Phys Educ, Exercise Physiol Lab FISEX, Ave Erico Verissimo,701 Cidade Univ Zeferino Vaz, BR-13083851 Campinas, SP, Brazil								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001156673300001	52	Article; Article		
J	Hogberg, Johan; Piussi, Ramana; Simonsson, Rebecca; Wernbom, Mathias; Samuelsson, Kristian; Thomee, Roland; Senorski, Eric Hamrin								The NordBord test reveals persistent knee flexor strength asymmetry when assessed two and five years after ACL reconstruction with hamstring tendon autograft								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				66				53	60		10.1016/j.ptsp.2024.01.008			MAR 2024	2024	Objective: Comparison of knee flexor strength limb symmetry index (LSI) between the NordBord-test and the Biodex-test, and to determine the relationship between knee flexor strength and function in patients 2 and 5 years after anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction (ACL-R) with hamstring tendon (HT) autografts. Design: Observational registry study. Setting: Primary care. Patients: Cross-sectional data from 96 patients (55% women) participating in a rehabilitation -registry after ACL-R with HT autografts. Main outcome measures: Comparison of knee flexor strength symmetry between the Biodex-test and the NordBordtest. Secondly, the relationship between knee flexor strength test and perceived knee function, activity level, and hop performance. Results: The NordBord-test demonstrated greater strength deficits compared to the Biodex-test with a mean difference of 12.5% +/- 15.1% 95 % CI [8.1; 16.9%] at 2 years, and 11.1% +/- 11.9% 95 % CI [7.7; 14.6 %] at 5 years after ACL-R. Relative concentric knee flexor strength (Nm/kg) in the Biodex demonstrated significant weak -to -moderate correlations with activity level and hop performance (r = 0.33-0.67) at 2 and 5 years. Conclusion: The NordBord-test identified deficits in knee flexor strength LSI not seen with the Biodex-test at 2 and 5 years after ACL-R. No significant correlations were found between the persistent knee flexor strength asymmetry and perceived function, activity level or hop performance.		[Hogberg, Johan; Piussi, Ramana; Simonsson, Rebecca; Wernbom, Mathias; Thomee, Roland; Senorski, Eric Hamrin] Sportrehab Sports Med Clin, Stampgatan 14, SE-41101 Gothenburg, Sweden; [Hogberg, Johan; Piussi, Ramana; Simonsson, Rebecca; Samuelsson, Kristian; Senorski, Eric Hamrin] Sahlgrenska Sports Med Ctr, Gothenburg, Sweden; [Hogberg, Johan; Piussi, Ramana; Simonsson, Rebecca; Wernbom, Mathias; Thomee, Roland; Senorski, Eric Hamrin] Univ Gothenburg, Dept Hlth & Rehabil, Unit Physiotherapy, Inst Neurosci & Physiol,Sahlgrenska Acad, Box 455, SE-40530 Gothenburg, Sweden; [Samuelsson, Kristian] Univ Gothenburg, Inst Clin Sci, Sahlgrenska Acad, Dept Orthopaed, Gothenburg, Sweden; [Samuelsson, Kristian] Sahlgrens Univ Hosp, Dept Orthopaed, Gothenburg, Sweden; [Wernbom, Mathias; Senorski, Eric Hamrin] Swedish Olymp Comm, Stockholm, Sweden; [Hogberg, Johan] Univ Gothenburg, Box 455, SE-40530 Gothenburg, Sweden; [Hogberg, Johan] Univ Gothenburg, Box 455, SE-40530 Gothenburg, Sweden								8							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001182492100001	42	Article; Article		
J	Wang, Qian; Fuchs, Stephan; Bodet, Guillaume								Elite versus grassroots sports events sponsorship in China: an exploration of sponsors' motives and objectives								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				25	3			465	482		10.1108/IJSMS-04-2023-0065			JUL 9 2024	2024	PurposeThis study explores the motives and objectives of sports sponsorship in China, taking into account the sports, social and cultural contexts. It also adopts a comparative approach to examine the sponsorship of elite and grassroots sports events in China.Design/methodology/approachThis study adopts a qualitative approach, employing semi-structured interviews with representatives of nine companies sponsoring elite and/or grassroots sports events in Western China. The data were analyzed through reflexive thematic analysis.FindingsIn China, sponsors are frequently driven to sponsor elite sport events by a sense of obligation and responsibility to the country, whereas their motives to sponsor grassroots sport events is primarily influenced by sincerity and goodwill. Chinese companies consider brand awareness, exposure and the relationship with the government and authorities as key factors for sponsorship, and use sponsorship to achieve market-related objectives.Originality/valueCompanies' sponsorship motives and objectives have received significant attention in the literature, but mainly in Western countries. In the context of China, this study identifies how sponsors utilize social networks to shape their motives and objectives. It also reveals certain patterns common with the current literature, as well as specificities such as how the roles of the government and authorities are linked to the contingent economic and social context of the country. Furthermore, the differences between elite and grassroots sports events sponsorship are explained.		[Wang, Qian; Fuchs, Stephan; Bodet, Guillaume] Univ Claude Bernard Lyon 1, Villeurbanne, France; [Wang, Qian] Univ Claude Bernard Lyon 1, Villeurbanne, France								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001156714600001	61	Article; Article		
J	Dragutinovic, Boris; Moser, Franziska; Feuerbacher, Joshua F.; Schumann, Moritz								Non-Local Muscle Fatigue Impairs Mean Propulsive Velocity During Strength Loading in Strength-Trained Men								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				95	3			697	704		10.1080/02701367.2023.2298455			JUL 2 2024	2024	<bold>Purpose:</bold> This study examined the acute influence of a bench press (BP) loading on the explosive squat (SQ) performance and vice versa. <bold>Methods:</bold> Nineteen strength-trained men completed 2 experimental sessions consisting of either a SQ+BP loading or a BP+SQ loading with 3 x 5 + 3 x 3 repetitions at 80% of the 1-repetition maximum in a randomized order. SQ and BP mean propulsive velocity (MPV) were assessed during both loadings, at baseline (T0) as well as immediately after the first (T1) and second strength loading (T2). <bold>Results:</bold> Both BP and SQ MPV decreased between T0 and T1 in SQ+BP (-6.13 +/- 6.13%, p = .014, g = 0.485 and -9.11 +/- 7.23%, p < .001, g = 0.905, respectively) and BP+SQ (-15.15 +/- 7.69%, p < .001, g = 1.316 and -7.18 +/- 6.16%, p < .001, g = 0.724, respectively). Mean BP MPV was lower in set 2 to set 6 in SQ+BP when compared to BP+SQ (-7.90% - 9.88%, all p < .05, g = 0.523-0.808). Mean SQ MPV was lower in set 1 and set 4 in BP+SQ when compared to SQ+BP (-4.94% - 5.22%, all p < .001, g = 0.329-0.362). <bold>Conclusions:</bold> These results demonstrate that the presence of non-local muscle fatigue affects the movement velocity. Therefore, if a training program aims to perform strength training exercises with maximal movement velocity, it is essential to carefully evaluate whether upper and lower body exercises should be carried out within close proximity.		[Dragutinovic, Boris; Moser, Franziska; Feuerbacher, Joshua F.; Schumann, Moritz] German Sport Univ Cologne, Frankfurt, Germany; [Dragutinovic, Boris] German Sport Univ Cologne, Cologne, Germany; [Schumann, Moritz] Tech Univ Chemnitz, Dept Sports Med & Exercise Therapy, Str Nationen 62, D-09111 Chemnitz, Germany; [Schumann, Moritz] Tech Univ Chemnitz, Dept Sports Med & Exercise Therapy, Str Nationen 62, D-09111 Chemnitz, Germany								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001156027000001	34	Article; Article		
J	Torres-Ronda, Lorena; Curtis, Ryan M.								Building the Foundations for Information Communication in Sports Science and Its Use in Decision Making								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				46	1			74	81		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000811			FEB 2024	2024	A central component of sport science is the development of systematic analytical frameworks to enhance performance through processes that include data collection and analysis to generate insights. Moreover, sport scientists are tasked with preparing information to be communicated with stakeholders to support better decision making. Communication of information using visuals is becoming one of the most in-demand skills of the sport scientist, but this is just one part of a more complex process because effective information transfer requires more than the production of charts and reports. To promote effective communication, modern sport scientists must be able to gain a clear understanding of diverse data structures and the best way to represent them. They must also develop competency in the disciplines of data management, visual design, and information delivery, which can improve the processes of visualizing, reporting, and storytelling. This article focuses on key aspects related to the collection of information and the communication of findings.		[Torres-Ronda, Lorena] Spanish Basketball Federat, High Performance Dept, Barcelona, Spain; [Curtis, Ryan M.] Univ Connecticut, Korey Stringer Inst, Dept Kinesiol, Storrs, CT USA; [Torres-Ronda, Lorena] Spanish Basketball Federat, High Performance Dept, Barcelona, Spain								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:001155397100012	33	Article; Article		
J	Suchomel, Timothy J.; Mcmahon, Eric L.								The State of Sport Science Around the World: A Roundtable Discussion								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				46	1			106	116		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000817			FEB 2024	2024	Although sport science as a profession has advanced in some countries, there are other countries where it is still in its infancy. This roundtable was designed to identify the perceived state of sport science in different countries around the world, including common themes that may be used to help further advance an emerging profession. Several international panelists discussed the sports that most commonly use sport science services, their opinions about the sport scientist job task and responsibilities, the role of education in preparing sport scientists for the field, and sport science career opportunities around the world. Furthermore, the panelists shared their opinions about the current state of sport science, and their hopes for a brighter future of sport science.		[Suchomel, Timothy J.] Carroll Univ, Dept Human Movement Sci, Waukesha, WI 53186 USA; [Mcmahon, Eric L.] Natl Strength & Conditioning Assoc Headquarters, Colorado Springs, CO USA; [Suchomel, Timothy J.] Carroll Univ, Dept Human Movement Sci, Waukesha, WI 53186 USA								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:001155397100005	19	Article; Article		
J	Secomb, Josh L.								Interdisciplinary Sport Science in Individual Sports - A Framework for Implementation								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				46	1			82	89		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000789			FEB 2024	2024	Supplemental Digital Content is Available in the Text. The role of the sport scientist has become an important part of the high-performance support staff structure in recent years. Although this role is now widely accepted and valued in many sports and organizations, there is an element of employment instability with frequent replacement and staffing changes occurring in some environments. There are often differences in the responsibilities and expectations of sport scientists within and between different sports and organizations, specifically between team and individual sports. This can make it difficult to successfully transition between these and be effective in a new role. Therefore, the ability to adapt to different environments and work within the culture and expectations of each sport can be crucial to professional success and to reduce role instability after new employment. This article aims to provide a framework for implementing interdisciplinary sport science in individual sports and includes case study examples and personal reflections to illustrate the framework in real-world situations. It is hoped that this can provide an insight into the unique considerations of working in these sports for the sport scientist that may transition into these roles.		[Secomb, Josh L.] Univ Newcastle, Appl Sports Sci & Exercise Testing Lab, Ourimbah, Australia; [Secomb, Josh L.] Univ Newcastle, Appl Sports Sci & Exercise Testing Lab, Ourimbah, Australia								11							Sport Sciences	WOS:001155397100001	28	Article; Article		
J	Gleason, Benjamin H.; Suchomel, Timothy J.; Brewer, Clive; Mcmahon, Eric L.; Lis, Ryan P.; Stone, Michael H.								Defining the Sport Scientist								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				46	1			2	17		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000760			FEB 2024	2024	Supplemental Digital Content is Available in the Text. In the last several decades in the United States, university athletic departments and professional sport teams began hiring sport scientists to support team operations. Many variations in sport science-related job titles and a variety of duties are apparent across the industry internationally. Therefore, the aims of this article were to (a) define sport scientist roles because they may be positioned in U.S. sport organizations, (b) demonstrate potential levels of application, (c) demonstrate how a sport science program helps establish a standard of care for the athlete, and (d) highlight overseas practices that establish professional competency for those in sport scientist roles. This discussion may be used to optimize organizational structures, enhance organizational dynamics within sport organizations, leagues, and systems, and used to develop, refine, or support certification and training programs in the United States. In addition to the discussion in this article, several job descriptions are provided as Supplemental Digital Content, http://links.lww.com/SCJ/A347. These resources may help decision makers construct job descriptions for their organizations.		[Gleason, Benjamin H.; Lis, Ryan P.; Stone, Michael H.] East Tennessee State Univ, Dept Sport Exercise Recreat & Kinesiol, Johnson City, TN 37614 USA; [Suchomel, Timothy J.] Carroll Univ, Dept Human Movement Sci, Waukesha, WI USA; [Brewer, Clive] OrthoArizona, Phoenix, AZ USA; [Mcmahon, Eric L.] Natl Strength & Conditioning Assoc Headquarters, Colorado Springs, CO USA; [Gleason, Benjamin H.] East Tennessee State Univ, Dept Sport Exercise Recreat & Kinesiol, Johnson City, TN 37614 USA								12							Sport Sciences	WOS:001155397100004	107	Article; Article		
J	Cassinat, Joshua; Crowley, Matthew; Simpson, Jeffrey; Service, Benjamin C.								Changes in injury type among NBA athletes in response to the COVID-19 pandemic								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				52	5			486	491		10.1080/00913847.2024.2311051			SEP 2 2024	2024	ContextThe 2019-2020 NBA season was altered significantly by the COVID-19 pandemic with a midseason suspension of games, the NBA 'bubble' tournament, and a shortened offseason. Concerns were raised regarding player conditioning and the potential increased risk of injury due to the schedule changes. The purpose of this study was to determine the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and associated schedule changes on NBA injuries. It was hypothesized that injury rates would be higher in the year following the pandemic and teams who participated in the bubble would have higher injury rates in the following season than non-bubble teams. Furthermore, the types of injuries would shift toward more severe injuries in the condensed 2019-20 season and the following 2020-21 season.DesignRetrospective Cohort StudyMethodsThe NBA's public injury reports were queried to identify players listed on an injury report. Standardized injury events were calculated for four pre-COVID-19 seasons (2015-2019), the COVID-19 season (2019-2020), and the post-COVID-19 season (2020-2021). Injury characteristics including type and location were extracted for each year and differences within each period were calculated.ResultsWhen excluding injury events related to COVID-19 health and safety protocols, the overall injury events per 1000 exposures were not significantly different between time periods of pre-COVID-19, COVID-19, and post-COVID-19 seasons; (p = 0.199), and no difference was found in the rates of teams who participated in the bubble. Injuries, including soreness and strains, significantly decreased while fracture injuries significantly increased in the COVID-19 year.ConclusionsThe COVID-19 pandemic led to an increased number of games missed, but no increase in injury rates when accounting for health and safety protocols. Additionally, bubble participation had no impact on injury rates. However, despite no changes in injury rates, the types of injuries changed with an increased proportion of severe injuries and decreased proportion of minor injuries.		[Cassinat, Joshua; Crowley, Matthew; Simpson, Jeffrey; Service, Benjamin C.] Univ Cent Florida, Coll Med, Orlando, FL USA; [Service, Benjamin C.] Orlando Hlth Jewett Orthoped Inst, Orlando, FL USA; [Cassinat, Joshua] UCF Coll Med, 14025 Benvolio Cr Unit 305, Orlando, FL 32824 USA; [Cassinat, Joshua] UCF Coll Med, 14025 Benvolio Cr Unit 305, Orlando, FL 32824 USA								0							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001153199200001	28	Article; Article		
J	Jang, Wooyoung (William); Choi, Wonjun; Kim, Min Jung; Song, Hyunseok; Byon, Kevin K.								What makes esports consumers watch streamers' esports live-streaming contents? Extending the theory of planned behavior								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				25	2			288	309		10.1108/IJSMS-07-2023-0132			MAR 19 2024	2024	PurposeThis study aimed to understand better what makes esports fans engage with streamers' live-streaming of esports gameplay. This study used the Theory of Planned Behavior (TPB) and additionally adopted streamer identification and esports game identification as moderating variables.Design/methodology/approachData were collected from streamers' esports content streaming viewers over 18 years of age using an online survey in Amazon M-Turk (N = 307). Based on past esports live-streaming weekly watching hours, which range from 1 to 45 h, the participants were divided into lower (n = 152) and higher (n = 155) frequency groups. PLS-SEM and bootstrapping techniques were used to test the moderated mediation relationships among the constructs.FindingsThis study found a negative moderating effect of past watching experience on the relationship between attitudes and behavioral intention, and it positively moderated the path between perceived behavioral control and behavioral intention. Also, it was found statistically significant direct impacts of streamer identification (STI) and esports game identification (EGI) on attitude and subjective norms. While the indirect impact of STI on behavioral intention through attitude was statistically significant, there were no significant indirect impacts of EGI on attitude and behavioral intention through subjective norms.Originality/valueTheoretically, this study extends the TPB model by exploring the two identifications (i.e. streamers and esports games) as antecedents of the focal TPB factors (i.e. attitudes, subjective norms and perceived behavioral control) and the moderating effect of prior experience based on high/low weekly watching frequencies. Practically, content creators of esports live-streaming and live-streaming platform managers can use the study's findings to develop strategies to nurture their current and future viewership.		[Jang, Wooyoung (William)] Univ West Georgia, Dept Sport Management Wellness & Phys Educ, Carrollton, GA 30118 USA; [Choi, Wonjun] Univ New Hampshire, Dept Kinesiol, Durham, NH USA; [Choi, Wonjun] Guilford Coll, Dept Sport Studies, Greensboro, NC USA; [Kim, Min Jung] McPherson Coll, Dept Hlth & Sport Studies, Mcpherson, KS USA; [Song, Hyunseok] Univ West Georgia, Dept Sport Management Wellness & Phys Educ, Carrollton, GA USA; [Byon, Kevin K.] Indiana Univ Bloomington, Dept Kinesiol, Bloomington, IN USA; [Jang, Wooyoung (William)] Univ West Georgia, Dept Sport Management Wellness & Phys Educ, Carrollton, GA 30118 USA								9							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001151713000001	46	Article; Article		
J	van Tonder, Riaan; Brown, James Craig; Surmon, Sean; Viviers, Pierre; Kraak, Wilbur; Stokes, Keith A.; Hendricks, Sharief; Derman, Wayne; Badenhorst, Marelise								Stakeholder perceptions of a tackle law variation to reduce concussion incidence in community rugby union: A qualitative study								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	4			1531	1545		10.1177/17479541241227329			AUG 2024	2024	This study aimed to investigate the perceptions of key stakeholder groups, i.e. coaches, players, and referees, of a reduced maximum legal tackle height law variation trial in a collegiate amateur rugby competition. A pragmatic qualitative approach was used. Eighteen semi-structured interviews were performed. Thematic analysis was used to analyse the data. Three main law trial-related themes and four additional contextual themes were identified. The most important contextual factors include perceptions of resource scarcity of the implementation context, deficient concussion knowledge and lack of education among all stakeholder groups, tackle technique deficiencies, and an entrenched culture of a dismissive attitude towards serious injuries and non-disclosure of concussion by players. Real-world challenges such as inconsistent sanctioning during gameplay, multi-tackler tackles, and player fatigue underscore the gap between the theoretical knowledge of the law and the complex, dynamic nature of its execution. Furthermore, deeply ingrained issues like entrenched tackle techniques, the quality of coaching, and prevailing attitudes towards concussion compounded these challenges, indicating a need for a more comprehensive approach to bridge the divide between understanding and implementation. Despite these challenges, several participants felt the law variation was still more effective than the existing law; and that it created more awareness around concussion, while sending a clear message that player welfare is being taken seriously. Collectively these factors indicate the difficulty of addressing a complex problem such as concussion, with a law variation intervention in a challenging (resource-constrained) setting.		[van Tonder, Riaan; Brown, James Craig; Viviers, Pierre; Derman, Wayne; Badenhorst, Marelise] Stellenbosch Univ, Inst Sport & Exercise Med, Fac Med & Hlth Sci, Dept Exercise Sport & Lifestyle Med, Cape Town, South Africa; [van Tonder, Riaan; Brown, James Craig; Viviers, Pierre; Derman, Wayne] IOC Res Ctr, Cape Town, South Africa; [Brown, James Craig; Hendricks, Sharief] Leeds Beckett Univ, Carnegie Appl Rugby Res CARR Ctr, Carnegie Sch Sport, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England; [Surmon, Sean] Stellenbosch Univ, Maties Sport, Stellenbosch, South Africa; [Viviers, Pierre] Stellenbosch Univ, Campus Hlth Serv, Matieland, South Africa; [Kraak, Wilbur] Stellenbosch Univ, Dept Exercise Sport & Lifestyle Med, Div Sport Sci, Fac Med & Hlth Sci, Stellenbosch, South Africa; [Kraak, Wilbur] Univ Western Cape, Dept Sport Recreat & Exercise Sci, Cape Town, South Africa; [Stokes, Keith A.] Univ Bath, UK Collaborating Ctr Injury & Illness Prevent Spo, Bath, Avon, England; [Stokes, Keith A.] Univ Bath, Ctr Hlth & Injury & Illness Prevent Sport, Bath, Avon, England; [Stokes, Keith A.] Rugby Football Union, Med Serv, London, England; [Hendricks, Sharief] Univ Cape Town, Dept Oceanog, Lifestyle & Sport Res Ctr, Div Physiol Sci & Hlth Phys Act,Fac Hlth Sci, Cape Town, South Africa; [Badenhorst, Marelise] Auckland Univ Technol, Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand, Sch Sport & Recreat, Auckland, New Zealand; [van Tonder, Riaan] Stellenbosch Univ, Inst Sport & Exercise Med, Fac Med & Hlth Sci, Dept Exercise Sport & Lifestyle Med, Cape Town, South Africa								8							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001153571600001	51	Article; Article		
J	da Silva, Drumond Gilo; da Silva, Rodrigo Fabio Bezerra; Gantois, Petrus; Nascimento, Vitor Bertoli; Nakamura, Fabio Yuzo; Fonseca, Fabiano de Souza								Accuracy and reliability of perception of bar velocity loss for autoregulation in resistance exercise								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	4			1622	1631		10.1177/17479541231226413			AUG 2024	2024	Background: The perception of bar velocity loss (PVL) can be used as an alternative method for autoregulating intraset repetitions during velocity-based training. This study analyzed the accuracy and reliability of the PVL as a method to autoregulate the intraset repetitions using a moderate velocity loss (VL) threshold (15-30%). Methods: A total of 22 resistance-trained men were familiarized with the PVL in a single session. Test-retest was performed in two sessions 1 week apart, in which participants completed three sets of bench press and back squat at 40, 60, and 80% 1 repetition maximum (1RM). Participants stopped the sets when they reached a moderate VL zone using their PVL. Accuracy was assessed by analyzing whether the mean VL (actual) and the lower and upper limits of the confidence interval (CI) (95%) of each set were within the established VL range and quantifying the relative frequency of correctly interrupted sets. Test-retest reliability was examined by the intraclass correlation coefficient and coefficient of variation. Results: PVL showed acceptable accuracy in both exercises at 60 and 80% 1RM (50-65% success rate) and retest for all loads (53-76% success rate). Similar PVL percentages were observed between most of the sets for the test and retest (p > 0.05). Accuracy improved during the retest, especially for bench press (40% 1RM) and back squat (40 and 80% 1RM). PVL was not reliable in the test-retest comparison. Conclusion: PVL can be a strategy with acceptable accuracy to autoregulate the intraset repetitions in a moderate zone (VL15-30%), but its reliability does not appear satisfactory after one familiarization session.		[da Silva, Drumond Gilo; da Silva, Rodrigo Fabio Bezerra; Fonseca, Fabiano de Souza] Univ Fed Pernambuco, Dept Phys Educ, Grad Program Phys Educ, Recife, Brazil; [Gantois, Petrus] Univ Fed Paraiba, UPE, Associate Grad Program Phys Educ, Joao Pessoa, Brazil; [Nascimento, Vitor Bertoli] Univ Fed Parana, Dept Phys Educ, Curitiba, Brazil; [Nakamura, Fabio Yuzo] Univ Maia ISMAI, Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev CIDESD, Maia, Portugal; [Fonseca, Fabiano de Souza] Univ Fed Rural Pernambuco, Dept Phys Educ, Recife, Brazil; [Fonseca, Fabiano de Souza] Univ Fed Rural Pernambuco, Dept Phys Educ, Recife, Brazil								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001155195600001	42	Article; Article		
J	Trail, Galen								Providing a framework and guidelines for sport organizations to understand and predict sport consumer behavior								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				25	2			213	226		10.1108/IJSMS-05-2023-0087			MAR 19 2024	2024	Purpose - The purpose of this commentary is to discuss a framework (the Revised Model of Sport Consumer Behavior - R-MSCB; Trail, 2019) to accomplish the following objectives. (1) Provide a framework for sport marketers and sport organizations to use in their own market research. (2) Designate the processes needed to generate results and knowledge that sport organizations, sport marketers and associated corporate partners can use to improve marketing campaigns. (3) Provide suggestions for analytic techniques and measurement constructs/instruments that will facilitate market research within the sport industry. Design/methodology/approach - The author created a 140-item questionnaire for the pre-survey and a 50-item questionnaire for the post-survey. The pre-survey was given at the beginning of the season, and the post-survey was given at the end of the season. The research group has generated a sequence of 13 studies and has collected pre-survey responses from over 7,800 people across 4 continents, 8 sports and 13 teams (data collections), with more teams still planned and over 2,000 post-season survey responses with data collection continuing. Findings - This project, with its 13 studies, will provide sport organizations with the theories/frameworks, knowledge and processes to do their own market research in a more effective and efficient manner and will show sport organizations how to understand the complexities of sport consumer behavior, the motivations behind it and how it varies extensively across individuals. The author will show sports organizations how to collect data from their consumers using valid and reliable measures and constructs that will allow them to segment their consumers, how to effectively market to those segments and how to establish long-lasting relationships that make a satisfied and loyal customer. Originality/value - This paper provides the framework and guidelines so that sport marketers and researchers can identify specific variables, constructs and relationships that will further their own objectives when attempting to explain sport consumer behavior. Using their own market research, they can implement the results/output in association with the Communications Strategy Model to create more effective and efficient marketing and communications campaigns and consequently drive key performance indicators (KPIs) and improve revenue streams.		[Trail, Galen] Seattle Univ, Dept Mkt, Seattle, WA 98122 USA; [Trail, Galen] Seattle Univ, Dept Mkt, Seattle, WA 98122 USA								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001152334200001	46	Article; Article		
J	Bores-Garcia, Daniel; Palacios-Cena, Domingo; Jimenez-Antona, Carmen; Marconnot, Romain								The Meaning of Physical Education Practice in Students with Attention-Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD)								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				95	3			656	663		10.1080/02701367.2023.2294097			JUL 2 2024	2024	Purpose: This study seeks to describe the perspective of students with attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and physical education (PE) teachers concerning physical activity practice in high school. Methods: A qualitative descriptive study based on an interpretative framework was conducted with secondary school students with ADHD, and their teachers of physical education. In-depth interviews and researchers' field notes were used to collect the data. Purposive sampling and inductive thematic analysis were applied. Results: Results show that ADHD is not experienced as limiting the practice of PA and PE by students, except in motor activities that require concentration such as tactical games. On the contrary, PA and PE helps them feel better. Teachers have not had to make extensive methodological modifications in their teaching styles with students with ADHD in relation to other situations or incidents. Conclusions: Students with ADHD do not seem to show significant difficulties in PE lessons or in the practice of extracurricular PA. PE teachers do not need to make significant adaptations with these students.		[Bores-Garcia, Daniel; Palacios-Cena, Domingo; Jimenez-Antona, Carmen; Marconnot, Romain] Univ Rey Juan Carlos, Res Grp Humanities & Qualitat Res Hlth Sci, Alcorcon, Spain; [Jimenez-Antona, Carmen] Univ Rey Juan Carlos, Res Grp Humanities & Qualitat Res Hlth Hum&QRinHS, Ave Atenas s-n, Alcorcon 28922, Madrid, Spain; [Jimenez-Antona, Carmen] Univ Rey Juan Carlos, Res Grp Humanities & Qualitat Res Hlth Hum&QRinHS, Ave Atenas s-n, Alcorcon 28922, Madrid, Spain								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001152164300001	42	Article; Article		
J	Dandrieux, Pierre-Eddy; Navarro, Laurent; Chapon, Joris; Tondut, Jeanne; Zyskowski, Michael; Hollander, Karsten; Edouard, Pascal								Perceptions and beliefs on sports injury prediction as an injury risk reduction strategy: An online survey on elite athletics (track and field) athletes, coaches, and health professionals								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				66				31	36		10.1016/j.ptsp.2024.01.007			MAR 2024	2024	Objectives: To explore perceptions and beliefs of elite athletics (track and field) athletes, coaches, and health professionals, towards the use of injury prediction as an injury risk reduction strategy. Design: Cross-sectional study. Method: During the 2022 European Athletics Championships in Munich, registered athletes, coaches, and health professionals were asked to complete an online questionnaire on their perceptions and beliefs of injury prediction use as an injury risk reduction strategy. The perceived level of interest, intent to use, help, potential stress (psychological impact) and dissemination were assessed by a score from 0 to 100. Results: We collected 54 responses from 17 countries. Elite athletics stakeholders expressed a perceived level of interest, intent to use, and help of injury prediction of (mean +/- SD) 85 +/- 16, 84 +/- 16, and 85 +/- 15, respectively. The perceived level of potential stress was 41 +/- 33 (range from 0 to 100), with an important inter-individual variability in each elite athletics stakeholder's category. Conclusions: This was the first study investigating the perceptions and beliefs of elite athletics stakeholders regarding the use of injury prediction as an injury risk reduction strategy. Regardless of the stakeholders, there was a high perceived level of interest, intent to use and help reported in this potential strategy.		[Dandrieux, Pierre-Eddy; Chapon, Joris; Tondut, Jeanne; Edouard, Pascal] Univ Jean Monnet St Etienne, Univ Savoie Mt Blanc, Lab Interuniv Biol Motr, Lyon 1, F-42023 St Etienne, France; [Dandrieux, Pierre-Eddy; Navarro, Laurent] Univ Jean Monnet, Univ Lyon, Ctr CIS, Mines St Etienne,INSERM,U1059 Sainbiose, F-42023 St Etienne, France; [Zyskowski, Michael] Tech Univ Munich, Munich, Germany; [Hollander, Karsten] MSH Med Sch Hamburg, Inst Interdisciplinary Exercise Sci & Sports Med, Hamburg, Germany; [Edouard, Pascal] Univ Hosp St Etienne, Fac Med, Dept Clin & Exercise Physiol, Sports Med Unit, St Etienne, France; [Edouard, Pascal] European Athlet Assoc EAA, European Athlet Med & Antidoping Commiss, Lausanne, Switzerland; [Dandrieux, Pierre-Eddy] Univ Jean Monnet St Etienne, Univ Savoie Mt Blanc, Lab Interuniv Biol Motr, Lyon 1, F-42023 St Etienne, France								4							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001179505900001	25	Article; Article		
J	Evans, Richard								The S-Score of Financial Sustainability for Professional Football Clubs								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				25	3			322	345		10.1177/15270025231222634			APR 2024	2024	This article extends the extensive literature on business failure and develops the approach of Altman to provide quantified recommendations for the financial sustainability of football clubs. The article uniquely identifies four scenarios that have caused insolvency for football clubs in the English Football League (EFL) and uses multiple discriminant analysis to identify financial models that delineate between professional football clubs that experience insolvency events and those that do not. These models produce an S-score which is introduced to suggest minimum financial tolerances for accounting ratios that provide a reasonable level of resilience for the financial sustainability of clubs in each scenario. The results are relevant for academics and non-academics with an interest in the business of football, professional football clubs aiming to avoid financial distress, and specifically, the Regulator that the U.K. government has proposed for football in England.		[Evans, Richard] Birkbeck Univ London, London, England; [Evans, Richard] Birkbeck Univ London, London, England								5							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001144862500001	43	Article; Article		
J	Qiu, Zhenghe; Ma, Haifeng								Rehabilitation exercise program after surgical treatment of patellar tendon rupture: A case report								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				66				17	24		10.1016/j.ptsp.2024.01.001			MAR 2024	2024	Objective: This case report describes in detail a rehabilitation and exercise program following surgical treatment of patellar tendon rupture and offers postoperative therapeutic goals and recommendations, with the aim of expediting the resumption of activities of daily living and sports participation following the surgical procedure. In addition, this report analyzes the cause of the patellar tendon rupture in this case. Design: Case report. Participants: The patient, a 25 -year -old male recreational athlete (height: 184 cm; weight: 80 kg; right-hand dominant), experienced a complete rupture of the patellar tendon upon landing on the left lower extremity during an unopposed dribble turn. Rehabilitation exercise program: A well -structured rehabilitation program was implemented. Passive knee flexion range of motion (ROM) exceeded 90 degrees at week 5 and was fully recovered at week 16. A second surgery was performed at week 19 to remove the decompression wires, and the patient progressively resumed basic physical and specialized training at 7 months post -surgery. Main outcome measures: Morphometric and functional tests were performed to measure the effectiveness of rehabilitation throughout the postoperative process. Conclusions: Early surgical repair and an immediate postoperative rehabilitation program have a positive impact on knee ROM, function, and muscle strength. The causes of the patellar tendon rupture in this patient included long-standing uncontrolled patellar tendinopathy, impaired mobility of the ankle and hip joints, poor landing technique, and muscle strength imbalances.		[Qiu, Zhenghe; Ma, Haifeng] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Athlet Performance, 650 QingYuanhuan Rd, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Ma, Haifeng] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Athlet Performance, 650 QingYuanhuan Rd, Shanghai, Peoples R China								3							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001166668600001	27	Article; Article		
J	Ng, Kenneth Shiu Pong; Feng, Yan; Lai, Ivan Ka Wai; Yang, Lois Zi-Yu								How customer knowledge management helps retain fitness club members: a mediating effect of relationship quality								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				25	2			360	381		10.1108/IJSMS-07-2023-0136			MAR 19 2024	2024	PurposeThis study aims to develop a conceptual model to understand how customer knowledge management (CKM) affects fitness club membership renewal through the mediation of relationship quality.Design/methodology/approachData were collected outside of fitness clubs using a systematic sampling method. A total of 224 valid responses were collected. Structural equation modelling was used to evaluate the relationship between the constructs of the research model.FindingsThe results indicate that both knowledge from customers and knowledge for customers have a positive influence on customer satisfaction and customer trust. Among them, knowledge for customers has a stronger influence on customer satisfaction while knowledge from customers has a greater influence on customer trust. Additionally, three dimensions of relationship quality (customer satisfaction, customer trust and customer commitment) positively influence membership renewal intention with customer commitment exhibiting the greatest influence on it.Originality/valueThis study combines the theories of CKM and relationship quality management to explain why members will renew their service contracts. By using fitness clubs as an example, this research extends the authors' understanding of how knowledge from and for customers can influence customers' attitudes and behavioural intentions towards service companies.		[Ng, Kenneth Shiu Pong] Guangzhou Coll Technol & Business, Guangzhou, Peoples R China; [Ng, Kenneth Shiu Pong] City Univ Macau, Fac Int Tourism & Management, Macau, Peoples R China; [Feng, Yan] Macau Univ Sci & Technol, Fac Hospitality & Tourism Management, Macau, Peoples R China; [Lai, Ivan Ka Wai] Macao Polytech Univ, Ctr Gaming & Tourism Studies, Macau, Peoples R China; [Yang, Lois Zi-Yu] Nanyang Technol Univ, Wee Kim Wee Sch Commun & Informat, Singapore, Singapore; [Feng, Yan] Macau Univ Sci & Technol, Fac Hospitality & Tourism Management, Macau, Peoples R China								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001141925600001	93	Article; Article		
J	Giordano, Kevin A.; Barrack, Adam J.; Murrah, William M.; Karduna, Andrew R.; Michener, Lori A.; Wasserberger, Kyle W.								Usage and acceptability of data normalization in baseball pitching								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	12			3430	3441		10.1080/14763141.2024.2302830			DEC 1 2024	2024	In baseball pitching biomechanics, kinetic values are commonly ratio 'normalised' by dividing by mass or mass*height to allow for comparison between athletes of different sizes. However, creating a normalised ratio variable should meet certain statistical assumptions. Our purpose was to determine if elbow valgus torque predicted by pitching velocity is influenced by normalisation using regression model comparison with and without normalised torque values. Motion capture data for youth to professional pitchers (n = 1988) were retrospectively analysed. Normalisation assumptions were tested by comparing linear regression models to analogous models with an intercept fixed at zero and by examining remaining correlations between the confounding variable and new, normalised variable. Both mass (p < 0.001) and mass*height (p < 0.001) normalisation did not remove their respective relationship with torque. After accounting for mass or mass and height, velocity predicted 10% of variance in elbow valgus torque, whereas velocity predicted 59% of mass normalised torque and 45% of mass*height normalised torque. Ratio normalisation does not fully account for anthropometric variables that differ across pitchers and leads to different conclusions in the magnitude of velocity's predictive effect on elbow valgus torque. Therefore, we recommend using regression model comparison to account for anthropometric variables in baseball pitching kinetic data.		[Giordano, Kevin A.] Holy Cross Orthoped Inst, Dept Orthoped, Ft Lauderdale, FL 33334 USA; [Giordano, Kevin A.] Holy Cross Orthoped Inst, Dept Phys Therapy, Ft Lauderdale, FL 33334 USA; [Barrack, Adam J.; Michener, Lori A.] Univ Southern Calif, Div Biokinesiol & Phys Therapy, Los Angeles, CA USA; [Murrah, William M.] Auburn Univ, Dept Educ Fdn Leadership & Technol, Auburn, AL USA; [Karduna, Andrew R.] Univ Oregon, Dept Human Physiol, Eugene, OR USA; [Wasserberger, Kyle W.] Driveline Baseball Res & Dev, Dept Res & Dev, Kent, WA USA; [Giordano, Kevin A.] Holy Cross Orthoped Inst, Dept Orthoped, Ft Lauderdale, FL 33334 USA; [Giordano, Kevin A.] Holy Cross Orthoped Inst, Dept Phys Therapy, Ft Lauderdale, FL 33334 USA								11							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001142215700001	23	Article; Article		
J	Gonzalez-Devesa, Daniel; Garcia-Rubio, Jorge; Diz-Gomez, Jose Carlos; Ayan-Perez, Carlos								Training profile, sporting habits and injury characteristics of Spanish obstacle course races participants: cross-sectional study								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				52	5			478	485		10.1080/00913847.2024.2303967			SEP 2 2024	2024	ObjectivesThis study aimed to provide information on the training profile and characteristics of injuries sustained by obstacle course racing competitors.MethodsThis research is a nationwide cross-sectional, self-administered online survey conducted in 2023.ResultsWe analyzed the data collected from 201 obstacle course racing participants (mean age: 33.8 +/- 7.1 years; 60.7% men). On average, athletes had 2.9 +/- 2.4 years of obstacle course racing experience and participated in approximately four races in the previous year. Most of these races covered distances of 5-10 km (65.2%). Among the participants, 28.4% reported injuries, with the upper extremities being the most frequently affected. Approximately 19% of these injuries required medical supervision, and 2% led to hospitalization.ConclusionInjury risk in obstacle course racing participants was associated with participation in a higher number of obstacle course racing competitions, reduced time between these competitions and having performed specific obstacle training.		[Gonzalez-Devesa, Daniel] Univ Leon, Fac Ciencias Act Fis & Deporte, Campus Vegazana S-N, Leon 24071, Spain; [Garcia-Rubio, Jorge] Univ Vigo, Fac Ciencias Educ & Deporte, Pontevedra, Spain; [Diz-Gomez, Jose Carlos; Ayan-Perez, Carlos] Univ Vigo, Dept Didact Especiais, Vigo, Spain; [Diz-Gomez, Jose Carlos; Ayan-Perez, Carlos] Galicia Sur Hlth Res Inst IIS Galicia Sur, Spain Well Move Res Grp, SERGAS UVIGO, Vigo, Spain; [Gonzalez-Devesa, Daniel] Univ Leon, Fac Ciencias Act Fis & Deporte, Campus Vegazana S-N, Leon 24071, Spain								0							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001140754600001	28	Article; Article		
J	Fukuzawa, Mathew B.; McConnell, Brandon M.; Kay, Michael G.; Thoney-Barletta, Kristin A.; Warsing, Donald P.								Implementing trades of the National Football League Draft on blockchain smart contracts								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				25	2			330	359		10.1108/IJSMS-09-2023-0185			MAR 19 2024	2024	PurposeDemonstrate proof-of-concept for conducting NFL Draft trades on a blockchain network using smart contracts.Design/methodology/approachUsing Ethereum smart contracts, the authors model several types of draft trades between teams. An example scenario is used to demonstrate contract interaction and draft results.FindingsThe authors show the feasibility of conducting draft-day trades using smart contracts. The entire negotiation process, including side deals, can be conducted digitally.Research limitations/implicationsFurther work is required to incorporate the full-scale depth required to integrate the draft trading process into a decentralized user platform and experience.Practical implicationsCutting time for the trade negotiation process buys decision time for team decision-makers. Gains are also made with accuracy and cost.Social implicationsFull-scale adoption may find resistance due to the level of fan involvement; the draft has evolved into an interactive experience for both fans and teams.Originality/valueThis research demonstrates the new application of smart contracts in the inter-section of sports management and blockchain technology.		[Fukuzawa, Mathew B.] North Carolina State Univ, Dept Operat Res, Raleigh, NC 27695 USA; North Carolina State Univ, Ctr Addit Mfg & Logist, Raleigh, NC USA; [Kay, Michael G.; Warsing, Donald P.] North Carolina State Univ, Dept Ind & Syst Engn, Raleigh, NC USA; [Thoney-Barletta, Kristin A.] North Carolina State Univ, Dept Text & Apparel Technol & Management, Raleigh, NC USA; [Warsing, Donald P.] North Carolina State Univ, Dept Business Management, Raleigh, NC USA; [Fukuzawa, Mathew B.] North Carolina State Univ, Dept Operat Res, Raleigh, NC 27695 USA								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001141008600001	120	Article; Article		
J	Duchene, Youri; Simon, Frederic R.; Ertel, Geoffrey N.; Maciejewski, Hugo; Gauchard, Gerome C.; Mornieux, Guillaume								The stroke rate influences performance, technique and core stability during rowing ergometer								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	6			1576	1593		10.1080/14763141.2024.2301992			JUN 3 2025	2025	The aim of this study is to determine the effect of stroke rate on performance, technique and core stability during rowing ergometer. Twenty-four high-level rowers performed maximal intensity one-minute bouts at 20, 28 and 34 spm on a RowPerfect3 ergometer. Power at the handle, legs, trunk and arms levels were determined, and core kinematics and neuromuscular activations were measured. The power at the handle was enhanced with a higher stroke rate in the first half of the drive phase due to higher segment's powers. This resulted in technical changes, as for instance greater mean to peak power ratio at each segment level. The higher trunk power preceded a delayed trunk extension but without significant increase in the erector spinae activation. This underlines the role of the core stability to transfer forces at a higher stroke rate. However, no co-activation parameters between trunk flexors and extensors helped further to understand this force transfer. Rowing at low stroke rate can be a training strategy to work on earlier trunk extension, while maintaining erectors spinae levels of activation. Training at higher stroke rate will induce a rowing technique closer to competition with greater neuromuscular activations, and maximise power production.		[Duchene, Youri; Simon, Frederic R.; Ertel, Geoffrey N.; Gauchard, Gerome C.; Mornieux, Guillaume] Univ Lorraine, DevAH, Nancy, France; [Duchene, Youri; Simon, Frederic R.; Ertel, Geoffrey N.; Gauchard, Gerome C.; Mornieux, Guillaume] Univ Lorraine, CARE Grand Est, Nancy, France; [Simon, Frederic R.; Gauchard, Gerome C.; Mornieux, Guillaume] Univ Lorraine, Fac Sport Sci, Nancy, France; [Maciejewski, Hugo] Federat Francaise Aviron, Nogent-sur-marne, Marne, France; [Duchene, Youri] Univ Lorraine, DevAH, Nancy, France; [Duchene, Youri] Univ Lorraine, CARE Grand Est, Nancy, France								5							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001140057500001	38	Article; Article		
J	Ozkal, Ozden; Demircioglu, Arzu; Topuz, Semra								Clarifying the relationships between trunk muscle endurance, respiratory muscle strength and static/dynamic postural control in Latin dancers								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	6			1562	1575		10.1080/14763141.2024.2301984			JUN 3 2025	2025	Sufficient study has not been performed to clarify the role of trunk/respiratory muscles strength/endurance in providing postural control in dancers. The purpose of this study was to identify predictors affecting static/dynamic postural control in Latin dancers and to compare these measurements with non-dancers. The study included 38 (26F; 12 M) Latin dancers and 33 (21F; 11 M) non-dancers. Static/dynamic postural control, trunk muscle endurance, respiratory muscle strength/pulmonary functions, flexibility, and reaction tests were assessed with a force platform system, the McGill battery, spirometer, sit-and-reach test and Nelson-reaction-tests, respectively. Trunk muscle endurance times, respiratory muscle strength, FEV1/FVC, gender, hours of training per week and dancing experience were significant predictors of static/dynamic postural control in dancers (p < 0.05). All the trunk muscle endurance times, reaction tests results, and maximal inspiratory pressure were higher in the dancers compared to the non-dancers (p < 0.05). The limits of stability for forward and backward directions were higher, and anteroposterior sway in normal stability with eyes open was lower in the dancers compared to the non-dancers (p < 0.05). Trunk muscles endurance, respiratory muscle strength, dancing experience, and hours of training per week were positively associated with static/dynamic postural control. These predictors should be taken into consideration to improve postural control in dancers.		[Ozkal, Ozden] Bursa Uludag Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Physiotherapy & Rehabil, Bursa, Turkiye; [Demircioglu, Arzu; Topuz, Semra] Hacettepe Univ, Fac Phys Therapy & Rehabil, Dept Phys Therapy & Rehabil, Ankara, Turkiye; [Ozkal, Ozden] Bursa Uludag Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Physiotherapy & Rehabil, Bursa, Turkiye								4							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001138670100001	33	Article; Article		
J	Hanley, Brian; Thomas, Aaron L.; Tucker, Catherine B.								Kinematic and spatiotemporal differences between footstrike patterns in elite male and female 10,000 m runners in competition								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	6			1594	1609		10.1080/14763141.2024.2301995			JUN 3 2025	2025	The aim of this study was to examine spatiotemporal and joint kinematic differences between footstrike patterns in 10,000 m running. Seventy-two men's and 42 women's footstrike patterns were analysed during laps 5, 10, 15, 20 and 25 (of 25) using 2D video recordings. Approximately 47% of men were FFS throughout the race, 30% were MFS and 24% RFS; the respective frequencies in women were approximately 30%, 38% and 32%. Overall, 83% of men and 88% of women retained their footstrike pattern throughout the race. Amongst the 53 men and 33 women with symmetrical footstrike patterns, there were no differences in speed, step length or cadence between footstrike groups in either sex. Most lower limb joint angles did not change in these athletes during the event, with few differences between footstrike patterns apart from ankle and foot angles. A greater hip-ankle distance was found in RFS than in FFS (both sexes) and in RFS than in MFS (men only), although these differences were never more than 0.03 m. Coaches should note that habitual footstrike patterns were maintained during this long-distance track race despite changes in running speed and possible fatigue, and there were few performance differences between footstrike patterns.		[Hanley, Brian; Thomas, Aaron L.; Tucker, Catherine B.] Leeds Beckett Univ, Carnegie Sch Sport, Leeds, England; [Hanley, Brian] Leeds Beckett Univ, Carnegie Sch Sport, Leeds, England								1							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001138569000001	34	Article; Article		
J	Cisyk, Jeffrey; Courty, Pascal								An Economic Approach to Sports Injury Policies								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				25	3			388	419		10.1177/15270025231222635			APR 2024	2024	We propose an analysis of sports injury policies founded on the assertion that injuries are due to both uncontrollable risks (accidents from participating in sports) and controllable risks (athlete's deliberate choices in risk-taking). We compare the adoption decision of an injury policy made by: (a) a sport's organizer who maximizes welfare, (b) a sport's organizer who fails to account for athletes' behavioral risk responses, and (c) the athletes themselves. We argue that policies that escalate risk, such as mandatory protective equipment, are over-adopted by the naive sport organizer and the athletes, while policies that de-escalate risk, such as return-to-play rules, are under-adopted.		[Cisyk, Jeffrey] Charles River Associates Inc, Toronto, ON, Canada; [Courty, Pascal] Univ Victoria, Dept Econ, Victoria, BC, Canada; [Courty, Pascal] CEPR, Victoria, BC, Canada; [Courty, Pascal] Univ Victoria, Dept Econ, STN CSC, POB 1700, Victoria, BC, Canada; [Courty, Pascal] Univ Victoria, Dept Econ, STN CSC, POB 1700, Victoria, BC, Canada								3							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001139701800001	58	Article; Article		
J	Cardazzi, Alexander; Humphreys, Brad R.; Reddig, Kole								Sports team success and managerial decisions: the role of playing-time concentration								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				25	2			266	287		10.1108/IJSMS-09-2023-0198			MAR 19 2024	2024	PurposeProfessional sports teams employ highly paid managers and coaches to train players and make tactical and strategic team decisions. A large literature analyzes the impact of manager decisions on team outcomes. Empirical analysis of manager decisions requires a quantifiable proxy variable for manager decisions. Previous research focused on manager dismissals, tenure on teams, the number of substitutions made in games or the number of healthy players on rosters held out of games for rest, generally finding small positive impacts of manager decisions on team success.Design/methodology/approachThe authors quantify manager decisions by developing a novel measure of game-specific coaching decisions: the Herfindahl-Hirschman Index (HHI) of playing-time across players on a team roster over the course of a season.FindingsEvidence from two-way fixed effects regression models explaining observed variation in National Basketball Association team winning percentage over the 1999-2000 to 2018-2019 seasons show a significant association between managers' allocation of playing time and team success. A one standard deviation change in playing-time HHI that reflects a flattened distribution of player talent is associated with between one and two additional wins per season, holding the talent of players on the team roster constant. Heterogeneity exists in the impact across teams with different player talent.Originality/valueThis is one of the first papers to examine playing-time concentration in the NBA. The results are important for understanding how managerial decisions about resource allocation lead to sustained competitive advantage. Linking coaching decisions to wins can help teams to better promote this core product.		[Cardazzi, Alexander] Old Dominion Univ, Dept Econ, Norfolk, VA 23529 USA; [Humphreys, Brad R.; Reddig, Kole] West Virginia Univ, Dept Econ, Morgantown, WV USA; [Cardazzi, Alexander] Old Dominion Univ, Dept Econ, Norfolk, VA 23529 USA								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001137080600001	31	Article; Article		
J	Rodriguez-Barbero, S.; Gonzalez-Mohino, F.; Gonzalez Rave, J. M.; Rodrigo-Carranza, V.; Juarez Santos-Garcia, D.								Reliability and validity of three portable devices for quantifying spatiotemporal parameters in runners of different athletic abilities during treadmill running								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	6			1479	1494		10.1080/14763141.2023.2298960			JUN 3 2025	2025	This study aimed to evaluate the validity and reliability of a wearable device and a phone application for measuring spatiotemporal parameters and their relationship with running economy (RE) by comparing them with photocell data in runners of different abilities. Twenty-three male runners were divided into well-trained and recreational groups and performed a 4-min running bout at 17 and 13 km center dot h(-1) respectively. During the bout, were measured the spatiotemporal parameters with three devices (Stryd, Runmatic, and Optojump) and RE with a gas analyser. Pearson correlation showed perfect relationships for stride frequency (SF) and stride length (SL) between the devices, and moderate for flight time (FT) and contact time (CT). There were no correlations between the spatiotemporal parameters and RE measurements. Coefficient of variation was similar to 5% in all devices for CT, SF, and SL, and higher for FT (15-24%). CT was underestimated (15-16% with Runmatic and Stryd, respectively) and FT was overestimated (36-40%) compared to Optojump. Bland-Altman plots revealed that Runmatic could be a more accurate system than Stryd. In conclusion, both devices were valid tools for measuring spatiotemporal parameters during running at RE speed. Runmatic was more valid and reliable in comparison with Stryd. In addition, at lower running speeds the devices showed less reliability.		[Rodriguez-Barbero, S.; Gonzalez-Mohino, F.; Gonzalez Rave, J. M.; Rodrigo-Carranza, V.; Juarez Santos-Garcia, D.] Univ Castilla La Mancha, Castilla La Mancha, Spain; [Gonzalez-Mohino, F.] Univ Nebrija, Fac Ciencias Vida & Nat, Madrid, Spain; [Juarez Santos-Garcia, D.] Univ Castilla La Mancha, Castilla La Mancha, Spain								16							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001138527000001	34	Article; Article		
J	Gomez-Lopez, Manuel; Valero-Valenzuela, Alfonso; Manzano-Sanchez, David; Gonzalez-Hernandez, Juan								Fear of failure and perception of the motivational climate under the coach pressure								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	3			933	943		10.1177/17479541231223652			JUN 2024	2024	The motivational climate perceived by players is a psychosocial process that has an impact on how they adjust their psychological response to performance situations with greater or lesser efficiency and balance. The aim of this study was to identify distinctive profiles of fear of failure and basic psychological needs in young handball players according to perceived motivational climate (mastery vs. performance). It examined differences in the distribution of gender and age and satisfaction of basic psychological needs and fear of failure within each profile. The study participants were 681 young (M = 16.16 years; SD = 0.92) handball players. A battery of scales adapted to Spanish was administered to measure motivational climate, fear of failure, and basic psychological needs. Central tendency, correlational, cluster, and comparative analysis (multivariate analysis) were applied to determine two profiles (Cluster 1 vs. Cluster 2). The Cluster 1 was characterized by those players with the highest values in the perception of a mastery climate, and the Cluster 2 included those players with a mixed mastery/ performance climate. The results may provide relevant information suggesting that a climate high in mastery and performance is preferable to a climate that is moderately high in both dimensions. They are useful to coaches in designing and adjusting training programs so that their athletes can enhance resources under balanced psychological efforts that reduce discomfort and flight, thus improving adaptation skills to coping with competitive demands and pressure.		[Gomez-Lopez, Manuel; Valero-Valenzuela, Alfonso] Univ Murcia, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Act & Sport, San Javier, Spain; [Gomez-Lopez, Manuel] Univ Murcia, Fac Sport Sci, Human Performance & Sports Sci Lab, San Javier, Spain; [Valero-Valenzuela, Alfonso; Manzano-Sanchez, David] Univ Murcia, Fac Sport Sci, SAFE Res Grp Salud Actividad Fis & Educ, San Javier, Spain; [Manzano-Sanchez, David] Univ Extremadura, Fac Educ & Psychol, Dept Didact Mus Plast & Corporal Express, Badajoz, Spain; [Gonzalez-Hernandez, Juan] Univ Granada, Dept Personal Evaluat & Psychol Treatment, Granada, Spain; [Valero-Valenzuela, Alfonso] Univ Murcia, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Act & Sport, C Argentina S-N, Santiago De La Ribera 30720, Murcia, Spain; [Valero-Valenzuela, Alfonso] Univ Murcia, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Act & Sport, C Argentina S-N, Santiago De La Ribera 30720, Murcia, Spain								8							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001137041200001	65	Article; Article		
J	Peng, Hsien-Te; Lai, Chien-Ting; Lin, Hung-Li; Wang, Li-, I								Unimodal and bimodal curves of ground reaction force-time profiles identify the drop jump performance								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	12			3151	3160		10.1080/14763141.2023.2298972			DEC 1 2024	2024	This study aimed to investigate the kinematics and kinetics differences in ground reaction force (GRF)-time profiles with uni- and bimodal curves (UNC and BIC) during the concentric phase of the drop jump (DJ). Twenty two male Physical Education college student who met UNC (N = 11) or BIC (N = 11) of the GRF-time profile of were recruited. Two force plates and eight infrared optical cameras were synchronised to collect the GRF and motion data during DJ from a 30-cm height. The Shapiro-Wilk test was used to assess the normality of data. The Wilcoxon test was used when data were not normally distributed. Otherwise, Independent t-tests were used to compare differences between the UNC and BIC groups for each dependent variable. The UNC group demonstrated shorter ground contact time, lower jump height, greater leg stiffness, greater peak power during the eccentric phase, less work during the eccentric and concentric phases, and greater hip and knee joint flexion and extension angle displacements (p < 0.05). No significant intergroup differences were found in reactive strength index (p > 0.05). The UNC and BIC of the GRF-time profiles can indicate whether athletes can practice DJ appropriately. UNC can be representative of a better DJ performance with an efficient stretch-shortening cycle function.		[Peng, Hsien-Te] Chinese Culture Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Taipei City, Taiwan; [Lai, Chien-Ting] Chinese Culture Univ, Grad Inst Sport Coaching Sci, Taipei City, Taiwan; [Lin, Hung-Li; Wang, Li-, I] Natl Dong Hwa Univ, Dept Phys Educ & Kinesiol, Hualien, Taiwan; [Wang, Li-, I] Natl Dong Hwa Univ, Dept Phys Educ & Kinesiol, Hualien, Taiwan								4							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001136871700001	29	Article; Article		
J	Scott, Ben E.; Burden, Richard; Dekerle, Jeanne								Stroke-Specific Swimming Critical Speed Testing: Balancing Feasibility and Scientific Rigour								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				90	1			239	251		10.5114/jhk/170882			JAN 2024	2024	This study aimed to assess the reliability of a two-distance critical speed protocol in the specialist strokes of national -level swimmers and understand the practical feasibility of extending the protocol to increase its validity. Thirtytwo national -level swimmers (butterfly n = 7; backstroke n = 8; breaststroke n = 7; front crawl n = 10) swum three 200m and three 400-m performance trials over a three-week period. Critical speed and supra-critical speed distance capacity were computed from the linear modelling of the distance-time relationship. Swimmers were subsequently asked whether they felt they could or would want to complete an 800-m trial as part of a three-distance critical speed protocol to enhance validity. Both 200-m and 400-m performances (coefficient of variation of < 2%) and derived critical speed (typical error of <= 0.04 m center dot s-1; coefficient of variation of < 4%) were reliable for all strokes, while supra-critical speed distance capacity (typical error from 4 to 9 m; coefficient of variation from 13 to 45%) was not reliable. Response rates to the follow-up questions were 100%. Few butterfly swimmers said they felt they could complete an 800-m performance trial (39%), with more positive responses for breaststroke (71%), backstroke (100%), and front crawl swimmers (100%). Butterfly swimmers were significantly less likely to say they could or would want to complete an 800-m trial than backstroke and front crawl swimmers (p < 0.05). Including a third distance 800-m trial to increase critical speed validity would not be acceptable to butterfly swimmers, would be challenging to breaststroke swimmers, but would be acceptable to front crawl and backstroke swimmers.		[Scott, Ben E.; Dekerle, Jeanne] Univ Brighton, Sch Sport & Hlth Sci, Fatigue & Exercise Lab, Eastbourne, England; [Scott, Ben E.; Burden, Richard] Loughborough Univ, English Inst Sport, Loughborough, England; [Scott, Ben E.] Loughborough Univ, British Swimming, Loughborough, England; [Burden, Richard] Loughborough Univ, Natl Ctr Sport & Exercise Med, Sch Sport Exercise & Hlth Sci, Loughborough, England; [Burden, Richard] St Marys Univ, Sch Sport Hlth & Appl Sci, Twickenham, England; [Scott, Ben E.] Univ Brighton, Sch Sport & Hlth Sci, Fatigue & Exercise Lab, Eastbourne, England; [Scott, Ben E.] Loughborough Univ, English Inst Sport, Loughborough, England; [Scott, Ben E.] Loughborough Univ, British Swimming, Loughborough, England								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:001207142600018	38	Article; Article		
J	Zwierko, Teresa; Jedziniak, Wojciech; Domaradzki, Jaroslaw; Zwierko, Michal; Opolska, Marlena; Lubinski, Wojciech								Electrophysiological Evidence of Stroboscopic Training in Elite Handball Players: Visual Evoked Potentials Study								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				90	1			57	69		10.5114/jhk/169443			JAN 2024	2024	Stroboscopic training enhances perceptual cognition and motor skills; however, neurophysiological mechanisms underlying this adaptation are not fully understood. This study aimed to investigate the effects of a six-week stroboscopic training program on the conductivity of the visual pathway in elite handball players, specifically related to their visual processing of retinal location and viewing conditions. The study included 22 handball players who were randomly assigned to an experimental or a control group. Both groups performed handball-specific in-situ tasks, but only the experimental group underwent stroboscopic training. Participants were assessed three times using visually evoked potential recordings measured by P100 implicit time and amplitude under three viewing conditions (dominant eye, nondominant eye, and binocular) and two retinal locations (extra-foveal and foveal vision) before and after the six-week training period, and again four weeks later. The results showed a significant TIME vs. GROUP effect of P100 implicit time for the dominant eye in extra-foveal vision (F2,40 = 5.20, p = 0.010, eta p2 = 0.206), extra-foveal binocular viewing (F2,40 = 3.32, p = 0.046, eta p2 = 0.142), and dominant eye foveal vision (F2,40 = 4.07, p = 0.025, eta p2 = 0.169). Stroboscopic training significantly improved early visual processing by reducing the P100 implicit time for the dominant eye and binocular vision, particularly in extra-foveal vision. The improvements were more noticeable in the short compared to the long term.		[Zwierko, Teresa; Jedziniak, Wojciech] Univ Szczecin, Inst Phys Culture Sci, Funct & Struct Human Res Ctr, Lab Kinesiol, Szczecin, Poland; [Domaradzki, Jaroslaw] Wroclaw Univ Hlth & Sport Sci, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Unit Biostruct, Wroclaw, Poland; [Zwierko, Michal] Wroclaw Univ Hlth & Sport Sci, Dept Team Sports Games, Wroclaw, Poland; [Opolska, Marlena] Univ Szczecin, Inst Biol, Szczecin, Poland; [Lubinski, Wojciech] Pomeranian Med Univ, Dept Ophthalmol 2, Szczecin, Poland; [Zwierko, Teresa] Univ Szczecin, Inst Phys Culture Sci, Funct & Struct Human Res Ctr, Lab Kinesiol, Szczecin, Poland								18							Sport Sciences	WOS:001207142600005	47	Article; Article		
J	Choi, Jeewon; Loh, Ping Yeap; Muraki, Satoshi								Transient Electromyographic Responses by Isokinetic Torque Release during Mechanically Assisted Elbow Flexion								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				90	1			17	28		10.5114/jhk/169368			JAN 2024	2024	Power assistance on joint torque may not be beneficial to all the related muscles. We investigated the effects of power assistance on torque release during isokinetic elbow flexion. An isokinetic dynamometer system was used to simulate dynamic elbow flexion with power assistance, which altered the exercise conditions of baseline isometric torque (greater and lower) and rotation speed (faster and slower) of the lever arm. Ten male right-handed participants performed exercise tasks using the system. We measured (1) the electromyogram (EMG) amplitudes of the biceps brachii (BB), brachioradialis (BR), and triceps brachii (TB) muscles, (2) torque output and its variability, and (3) the perceived assistance level. Transient responses of the objective measurements were analyzed by observing three time epochs before and after power assistance. Greater variability and lower perceived assistance levels were observed when greater torque was released at a faster rotation speed. The torque output and EMG amplitudes of BB and BR muscles decreased over time. However, EMG amplitudes in the TB muscle were relatively constant until 200 ms after power assistance resulting in greater muscle co -contraction. This could be attributed to the increased postural stability of the human musculature system when the external perturbation on joint movement occurred by power assistance, independent of exercise conditions.		[Choi, Jeewon] Dong A Univ, Dept Ind & Management Syst Engn, Busan, South Korea; [Loh, Ping Yeap; Muraki, Satoshi] Kyushu Univ, Fac Design, Fukuoka, Japan; [Choi, Jeewon] Dong A Univ, Dept Ind & Management Syst Engn, Busan, South Korea								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:001207142600002	38	Article; Article		
J	Barreto, Ana Cristina; Leitao, Luis; Vianna, Jeferson; Poderoso, Rodrigo; Reis, Victor Machado; Cirilo-Sousa, Maria; Adenilson Junior; Colonna, Marcelo; Casimiro-Lopes, Gustavo; Novaes, Jefferson								Do Men and Women Differ in Hematological Adaptations to 24 Weeks of Crossfit Training?								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				90	1			101	110		10.5114/jhk/170885			JAN 2024	2024	Regular exercise can modulate the immune system functioning through changes in the number and function of leukocytes as well as in red blood cells and other typical blood markers. High intensity exercise promotes increases in cytotoxic activity, phagocytic capacity, chemotaxis and cell apoptosis. The aim of the study was to compare the chronic effects of a 24 -week training program using CrossFit (R) methodology on hematological variables of men vs. women. Twenty-nine CrossFit (R) athletes (35.3 +/- 10.4 years, 175.0 +/- 9.2 cm, 79.5 +/- 16.4 kg) participated in the study. The blood count, the lipid profile and glucose markers were measured every two months during the study period. The erythrocyte count and hemoglobin concentrations increased in months 4 and 6 in men and women, respectively. Hematocrit levels increased in men in months 2, 4 and 6, while in women only in month 6. Red cell distribution width increased in men in month 6 when compared to the value in month 2. Segmented neutrophils increased in men in month 6 and eosinophil levels increased in women in month 6. Differences between the two sexes were observed in monocytes levels at baseline, as well as in months 2, 4 and 6. Cross -Fit (R) training increased red cell count indicators in both sexes, which may be related to increased erythropoiesis. Some white blood cell counts were altered and these differed between sexes. The number of lymphocytes remained stable throughout the experiment.		[Barreto, Ana Cristina; Colonna, Marcelo; Casimiro-Lopes, Gustavo; Novaes, Jefferson] Celso Lisboa Univ Ctr, Phys Educ Dept, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil; [Leitao, Luis; Casimiro-Lopes, Gustavo] Polytech Inst Setubal, Super Sch Educ, Sci & Technol Dept, Setubal, Portugal; [Leitao, Luis] Life Qual Res Ctr CIEQV, Leiria, Portugal; [Vianna, Jeferson; Novaes, Jefferson] Univ Fed Juiz de Fora, Phys Educ & Sports Dept, Juiz De Fora, Brazil; [Poderoso, Rodrigo] Univ Unopar, Phys Educ Dept, Nilopolis, Brazil; [Reis, Victor Machado] Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev CIDESD, Vila Real, Portugal; [Cirilo-Sousa, Maria] Univ Fed Paraiba, Phys Educ Dept, Joao Pessoa, Brazil; [Cirilo-Sousa, Maria] Univ Cariri Reg, Postgrad Program Phys Educ, Crato, Brazil; [Cirilo-Sousa, Maria] Fed Techonol Inst Paraiba, Phys Educ Dept, Joao Pessoa, Brazil; [Adenilson Junior] Univ Ctr Augusto Motta UNISUAM, Phys Educ Dept, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil; [Colonna, Marcelo] Estacio Sa Univ UNESA, Phys Educ Dept, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil; [Casimiro-Lopes, Gustavo] Rio Janeiro State Univ, Phys Educ & Sports Inst, Lab Exercise Pathophysiol, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil; [Novaes, Jefferson] Fed Univ Rio de Janeiro UFRJ, Phys Educ & Sports Dept, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil; [Leitao, Luis] Polytech Inst Setubal, Super Sch Educ, Sci & Technol Dept, Setubal, Portugal; [Leitao, Luis] Life Qual Res Ctr CIEQV, Leiria, Portugal								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:001207142600008	34	Article; Article		
J	Gomez-Lopez, Manuel; Rivilla-Garcia, Jesus; Gonzalez-Garcia, Ivan; Sanchez-Lopez, Sergio; Angosto, Salvador								Analysis of Spatial Offensive Performance in Handball: Differences between Men's and Women's Senior World Championships								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				90	1			169	182		10.5114/jhk/170233			JAN 2024	2024	The aim of this study was to carry out a descriptive analysis of the main performance variables of national teams that competed in the Men's (Germany-Denmark 2019) and Women's (Germany 2017) senior handball World Cups, and to compare the spatial offensive performance indices of laterality and depth according to the gender of players, considering for this purpose the total number of throws made according to the finishing area. A documentary study was carried out based on the total number of throws made in 192 male and 154 female games of 48 national teams belonging to 33 countries, which participated in previous World Cups. The data were collected from the International Handball Federation (IHF) statistics. The results showed that the areas from which the highest number of shots were taken in both World Cups were the central and shallow areas of the field. Several gender differences were observed. More specifically, male teams made much more attempts from the left side area than female teams (data), who finished from the right side (data). The depth index reflected that, although the dominant execution by gender was from deep offensive zones, men's teams finished more often from the 1st offensive line, while female teams finished from the 2nd offensive line. This information will be useful for coaches in designing training tasks and for players in improving decision making.		[Gomez-Lopez, Manuel; Angosto, Salvador] Univ Murcia, Fac Sport Sci, Murcia, Spain; [Rivilla-Garcia, Jesus] Politecn Univ Madrid, Fac Phys Act & Sports Sci, Madrid, Spain; [Gonzalez-Garcia, Ivan] Univ Isabel I, Fac Hlth Sci, Burgos, Spain; [Sanchez-Lopez, Sergio] Univ Almeria, CERNEP, Sport Res Grp CTS 1024, Almeria, Spain; [Gomez-Lopez, Manuel] Univ Murcia, Fac Sport Sci, Murcia, Spain								9							Sport Sciences	WOS:001207142600014	40	Article; Article		
J	Ciro-Cardona, Juan; Marulanda-Tabares, John; Moniz, Felipe; Valencia-Sanchez, Wilder								Is the Field Test of FUT-SAT a Better Experimental Design to Identify the Specific Characteristics of Tactical Performance according to Youth Male Soccer Players' Positional Roles?								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				90	1			269	282		10.5114/jhk/170044			JAN 2024	2024	This study aimed to compare soccer players' tactical performance according to their positional roles in the field test of FUT-SAT. The sample consisted of 54 male players from elite youth clubs (Medellin-Colombia), U16 and U17 categories. Participants trained five times per week (Tier 3). We used the System of Tactical Assessment (FUT-SAT), which evaluates tactical behaviour and performance through core tactical principles of soccer. The field test is structured in a numerical configuration of a goalkeeper + 3 players vs. 3 players + a goalkeeper played during 4 min on a playing field 36 m long by 27 m wide. All teams were structured with one player in each positional role (one defender, one midfielder, and one forward). To determine the differences between the positional roles, the following factors were analysed: the number of actions, the percentage of correct actions, the place of action related to the principles, and the Tactical Performance Index of core tactical principles. A total of 2891 tactical actions distributed in nine games were analysed. A Kruskal-Wallis test for the independent groups (defenders, midfielders, and forwards) or a one-way ANOVA was used. There was no difference in soccer players' tactical performance and behaviour between players of different positional roles in the field test of FUT-SAT. Therefore, teams need to be evaluated with the system of play with players in all field sectors in medium or large sided games. The system of play can be chosen according to the category given that competitions are held in reduced spaces and with fewer players		[Ciro-Cardona, Juan; Marulanda-Tabares, John; Valencia-Sanchez, Wilder] Inst Univ Educ Fis & Deporte, Univ Antioquia UDEA, Medellin, Colombia; [Moniz, Felipe] Ctr Univ Formiga, UNIFOR MG, Formiga, MG, Brazil; [Moniz, Felipe] Ctr Univ Formiga, UNIFOR MG, Formiga, MG, Brazil								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:001207142600020	49	Article; Article		
J	More, Cristiano Rafael; More, Rita Adriana Stoeterau; Boullosa, Daniel; Dellagrana, Rodolfo Andre								Influence of Intensity on Post-Running Jump Potentiation in Recreational Runners vs. Physically Active Individuals								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				90	1			137	150		10.5114/jhk/172268			JAN 2024	2024	The aim of this study was to verify post-activation performance enhancement (PAPE) in jumping and sprinting after two endurance volume-equated running protocols with different intensities, in runners vs. active individuals. Nine recreational runners (age: 34.5 +/- 9.3 years, body mass: 73.1 +/- 11.9 kg, body height: 1.76 +/- 0.06 m, 17.4 +/- 4.4 %body fat; maximum aerobic speed [MAS]: 16.4 +/- 1.0 km center dot h(-1)), and 9 active individuals (age: 34.1 +/- 9.4 years; body mass: 83.2 +/- 7.7 kg; body height: 1.79 +/- 0.06 m; 25.6 +/- 5.4 %body fat; MAS: 13.3 +/- 1.2 km center dot h(-1)) volunteered for participation. The evaluations were performed over three days as follows: 1) anthropometric measures, physical fitness tests, and the University of Montreal Track Test (UMTT) to determine MAS and the distance to be covered in the running protocols; 2 and 3) the countermovement jump (CMJ) and the flying 20-m sprint (SPRINT) were assessed pre- and post-running at 70% of MAS or a time trial race (TTR), equated by volume and completed in random order. A three-way ANOVA (time*group*running) was performed to analyze the PAPE effects. The results showed a time effect (F = 10 .716; p < 0.01) and a group*running interaction (F = 12.094; p < 0.01) for the CMJ, indicating that active individuals demonstrated PAPE after running at 70% of MAS, while for runners both running interventions (70% of MAS and TTR) induced PAPE in CMJ performances. For the SPRINT, a time*group interaction (F = 4.790; p = 0.044) and a group effect were observed, with runners showing greater SPRINT performances than active individuals. From the current results, it can be suggested that training background and intensity can modulate PAPE responses in jumping and sprinting after volume-equated running protocols at different intensities.		[More, Cristiano Rafael; More, Rita Adriana Stoeterau; Boullosa, Daniel; Dellagrana, Rodolfo Andre] Univ Fed Mato Grosso do Sul, Grad Program Movement Sci, Campo Grande, MS, Brazil; [Boullosa, Daniel] Univ Leon, Fac Phys Act & Sports Sci, Leon, Spain; [Boullosa, Daniel] James Cook Univ, Coll Healthcare Sci, Townsville, Australia; [Dellagrana, Rodolfo Andre] Univ Estadual Ponta Grossa, Phys Educ Dept, Ponta Grossa, PR, Brazil; [Dellagrana, Rodolfo Andre] Univ Fed Mato Grosso do Sul, Grad Program Movement Sci, Campo Grande, MS, Brazil; [Dellagrana, Rodolfo Andre] Univ Estadual Ponta Grossa, Phys Educ Dept, Ponta Grossa, PR, Brazil								8							Sport Sciences	WOS:001207142600011	43	Article; Article		
J	Dudley, Charles; Johnston, Rich; Ben Jones; Hacking, Trent; Mccafferty, Robert; Weakley, Jonathon								An investigation into the variability of rugby union small-sided game demands and the effect of pitch size and player number manipulation								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	4			1546	1559		10.1177/17479541231220288			AUG 2024	2024	This study aimed to quantify the variability of physical, technical, and subjective task-load demands in small-sided games (SSGs), and the effect of manipulating of pitch size and player numbers in SSG in adolescent rugby union (RU) players. Twenty-six subjects completed six conditions in a crossover study design. In each condition subjects played 4 x 3-min periods of an SSG. Games were completed with either 4 x 4, 6 x 6 or 12 x 12 players on either a small (W: 25 m, L: 30 m), medium (W: 30 m, L: 40 m), or large (W: 35 m, L: 50 m) sized pitch. Match demands were assessed using global navigation satellite systems, heart rate (HR) monitors, ratings of perceived exertion, National Aeronautical Space Association task-load index and video analysis. Statistical analysis comprised of typical error, coefficient of variation (CV) and intra-class correlations to assess variability, and the use of linear mixed effects modelling to assess differences between conditions. A range of variability was observed in technical (CV = 25.00% to 52.38%), physical (CV = 4.12% to 51.18%) and subjective task-loads (CV = 7.65% to 17.14%) between identical games. Reducing player numbers increased physical demands such as m/min (ES range = 0.45 to 1.45), technical exposures such as total involvements (ES range = 0.04 to 0.63) and effort, physical and temporal task-loads. Increasing pitch size caused greater movement demands such as m/min (ES range = 0.11 to 0.79), but did not change the technical demands.		[Dudley, Charles; Johnston, Rich; Weakley, Jonathon] Australian Catholic Univ, Sch Behav & Hlth Sci, Brisbane, Australia; [Dudley, Charles; Hacking, Trent; Mccafferty, Robert] St Josephs Nudgee Coll, Brisbane, Australia; [Johnston, Rich; Weakley, Jonathon] Leeds Beckett Univ, Inst Sport Phys Act & Leisure, Carnegie Appl Rugby Res CARR Ctr, Leeds, England; [Ben Jones] Univ Cape Town, Fac Hlth Sci, Hlth Phys Act Lifestyle & Sport Res Ctr HPALS, Dept Human Biol, Cape Town, South Africa; [Ben Jones] Premiership Rugby, London, England; [Ben Jones] Leeds Rhinos Rugby League Club, Leeds, England; [Ben Jones] England Performance Unit, Rugby Football League, Leeds, England; [Ben Jones; Weakley, Jonathon] Australian Catholic Univ, Sports Performance Recovery Injury & New Technol S, Brisbane, Australia; [Dudley, Charles] Australian Catholic Univ, Sch Behav & Hlth Sci, Banyo Campus, Brisbane 4014, Australia; [Dudley, Charles] Australian Catholic Univ, Sch Behav & Hlth Sci, Banyo Campus, Brisbane 4014, Australia								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001134930900001	57	Article; Article		
J	Mohammadi, Sardar; Siani, Mojtaba Ghasemi; Dos Santos, Manuel Alonso								Effectiveness of sponsorship type, sport team identification, team support and congruence								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				25	1			188	209		10.1108/IJSMS-05-2023-0110			JAN 19 2024	2024	PurposeThe aim of this paper is to investigate the interaction effect that sponsor-team congruence and team fan (home/rival team) have on the influence of different types of sports sponsorship (joint, corporate social responsibility [CSR]-linked and conventional sponsorship) on fans' attitudes and purchase intentions toward the sponsor.Design/methodology/approachTwo experimental studies were conducted on 391 and 297 participants. The data gathered underwent analysis through five multivariate general linear model analyses.FindingsThe study found that CSR-linked sponsorship had the strongest positive impact and the weakest negative impact on the attitude and purchase intention of home team supporters and the attitude of rival team supporters. Nonetheless, the sponsor-team congruence did not significantly moderate the relationship. Additionally, the research demonstrated that the fan identity of both home and rival teams moderates the impact of sports sponsorships on attitude and purchase intention.Originality/valuePrevious research has studied the effectiveness of sponsorship format types independently. This is the first research comparing sponsorship formats regarding fan type and congruence.		[Mohammadi, Sardar] Univ Kurdistan, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Sanandaj, Iran; [Siani, Mojtaba Ghasemi] Univ Kurdistan, Sanandaj, Iran; [Dos Santos, Manuel Alonso] Univ Granada, Dept Adm, Granada, Spain; [Siani, Mojtaba Ghasemi] Univ Kurdistan, Sanandaj, Iran								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001129384000001	51	Article; Article		
J	Park, Youngho; Kwak, Dae Hee								Genuine or impression management? Uncovering biases in how people respond to the Black Lives Matter movement in sport								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				25	2			248	265		10.1108/IJSMS-09-2023-0184			MAR 19 2024	2024	PurposeNational surveys reveal that sports fans exhibit greater support for athletes, sports teams and leagues endorsing social justice initiatives compared to the general population, highlighting the potential of sports for positive social impact. This study investigates whether such responses are influenced by systematic biases.Design/methodology/approachReplicating a Nielsen national survey, two experiments explore whether biases affect support for athletes' participation in the Black Lives Matter (BLM) movement. The study also examines partisan motivated reasoning as a factor driving sports fans' support for BLM.FindingsWhile avid fans display stronger endorsement of BLM compared to causal/non-sports fans, evidence suggests that systematic biases distort these responses. When sport identity becomes salient, reported support for the BLM movement becomes inflated.Research limitations/implicationsResearchers often employ self-report surveys to gauge audience perceptions of athlete activism or cause-related initiatives, particularly when assessing their impact. This study's findings indicate that this context is susceptible to SDB.Originality/valueThe study underscores the role of systematic biases in self-report surveys, particularly in socially desirable contexts. People tend to over-report "positive behavior," leading survey participants to respond more favorably to questions that are socially desirable. Therefore, interpreting survey results with caution becomes essential when the research context is deemed socially (un)desirable. It is crucial for researchers to apply appropriate measures to identify and mitigate systematic response biases. The authors recommend that researchers adopt both procedural and statistical remedies to detect and reduce social desirability biases.		[Park, Youngho] Univ Miami, Dept Sport Sci, Coral Gables, FL 33146 USA; [Kwak, Dae Hee] Univ Michigan, Dept Sport Management, Ann Arbor, MI USA; [Park, Youngho] Univ Miami, Dept Sport Sci, Coral Gables, FL 33146 USA								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001129377200001	32	Article; Article		
J	Rampichini, Susanna; Limonta, Eloisa; Zago, Matteo; Bisconti, Angela Valentina; Bertozzi, Filippo; Ce, Emiliano; Borrelli, Marta; Sforza, Chiarella; Esposito, Fabio								Speed Effects on the Accuracy of Heart Rate as Oxygen-Uptake Indicator in Short-Distance Shuttle Running								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				95	2			529	536		10.1080/02701367.2023.2275800			APR 2 2024	2024	Purpose: Despite the accuracy of heart rate (HR) as an indicator of the aerobic engagement has been evaluated in several intermittent on-court activities, its validity as an oxygen uptake (V-O2) indicator during shuttle running over short paths remains uncertain. Moreover, it is unclear whether speed may affect such validity. This study evaluated the HR ability in estimating the V-O2 during 5-m shuttle running at different speeds. Methods: V-O2 and HR of 12 physically active young men were recorded during an incremental forward running (FW) protocol and a 5-m shuttle test at 50%, 60%, and 75% of maximal aerobic speed (MAS). Slope and intercept of the relationship between HR and V-O2 (HR/V-O2) were individually determined, in both protocols. The HR measured during the shuttle test was used in the FW HR/V-O2 to estimate V-O2 at each shuttle speed. A paired Student's t-test compared slopes and intercepts of the two HR/V-O2. A two-way RM-ANOVA and an equality test examined, respectively, the differences and the equality between measured and estimated V-O2. Lastly, a Bland-Altman plot described the accuracy and precision of the estimated V-O2 at each shuttle intensity. Results: Slopes and intercepts of the HR/V-O2 appeared not different between FW and shuttle running. At 50%MAS, HR underestimated the V-O2 (similar to 7%), whereas returned accurate values at the two higher velocities, although with high variability (+/- 18%). Conclusions: When using HR as V-O2 indicator during shuttle running over short paths, a separated analysis of the HR validity as V-O2 indicator is recommended especially when administering different exercise intensities.		[Rampichini, Susanna; Limonta, Eloisa; Zago, Matteo; Bisconti, Angela Valentina; Bertozzi, Filippo; Ce, Emiliano; Borrelli, Marta; Sforza, Chiarella; Esposito, Fabio] Univ Milan, Milan, Italy; [Limonta, Eloisa; Ce, Emiliano; Esposito, Fabio] IRCCS Osped Galeazzi Sant Ambrogio, Milan, Italy; [Bisconti, Angela Valentina] Univ Utah, Salt Lake City, UT USA; [Sforza, Chiarella] CNR, Rome, Italy; [Rampichini, Susanna] Univ Milan, Dept Biomed Sci Hlth, Via Colombo 71, I-20133 Milan, Italy; [Rampichini, Susanna] Univ Milan, Dept Biomed Sci Hlth, Via Colombo 71, I-20133 Milan, Italy								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001126352200001	35	Article; Article		
J	van Zyl, Sanet; Bayne, Helen; Schwellnus, Martin; Viljoen, Carel								A high incidence of injury among male university student rugby players requires urgent injury prevention strategies								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				65				107	112		10.1016/j.ptsp.2023.12.002			JAN 2024	2024	Objectives: Determine the epidemiology and clinical characteristics of training and match injuries in university student rugby players over a two-season period.Design: Prospective cohort.Setting: Varsity Cup (VC) and Young Guns (YG) rugby tournaments (2018 and 2019).Participants: 171 male university student rugby players.Main outcome measures: For time-loss injuries: injury incidence (injuries per 1000 player-hours), injured player proportion (% of injured players) and the frequency (n, %) of injury characteristics (new or recurrent, anatomical region, body area, severity.Results: The injury incidence was 2.4 per 1000 player-hours for training injuries and 131.1 per 1000 player-hours for match injuries. The overall injured player proportion was 59.6%. New injuries (83.9%) were more frequent than recurrent injuries. Most injuries occurred in the lower limb involving muscle/tendon (56.7%) and ligament/ joint capsule (27.2%). The shoulder (19.6%) and ankle (15.7%) were the most common body areas of injury during matches and training, respectively.Conclusions: There was a high injured player proportion and match injury incidence among university student rugby players. Most injuries were new. Lower limb injuries were most common in training whereas upper limb injuries were most common in matches. These findings highlight the need to prioritise future injury prevention among university student rugby players.		[van Zyl, Sanet; Viljoen, Carel] Univ Pretoria, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Physiotherapy, Prinshoff Campus,Dr Savage Rd, ZA-0084 Pretoria, South Africa; [van Zyl, Sanet; Bayne, Helen; Schwellnus, Martin; Viljoen, Carel] Univ Pretoria, Sport Exercise Med & Lifestyle Inst SEMLI, Fac Hlth Sci, Pretoria, South Africa; [Bayne, Helen] Univ Pretoria, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Physiol, Pretoria, South Africa; [Schwellnus, Martin] Int Olymp Comm IOC Res Ctr, Pretoria, South Africa; [van Zyl, Sanet] Univ Pretoria, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Physiotherapy, Prinshoff Campus,Dr Savage Rd, ZA-0084 Pretoria, South Africa								9							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001138367200001	40	Article; Article		
J	Rappai, Gabor; Furesz, Diana Ivett								Domestic Competitive Imbalance as the "Price" of Surprise in the Champions League								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				25	2			231	256		10.1177/15270025231217968			FEB 2024	2024	The opinions regarding the impact of the domestic league's competitive balance (CB) on continental club competition sporting success are divided. Through the data of the last 18 seasons (2004/05-2021/22) and 576 games, we have examined whether the teams from a more balanced domestic league can achieve more unexpected results in the Champions League group stage. The current study aims to contribute to previously published literature by applying the market value-based surprise index. The results of panel logistic regression models suggest that a lower domestic league's CB in a given season can support teams to overperform in the international field in the same season.		[Rappai, Gabor; Furesz, Diana Ivett] Univ Pecs, Fac Business & Econ, Dept Econ & Econometr, Rakoczi 80, Pecs, Hungary; [Furesz, Diana Ivett] Univ Pecs, Fac Business & Econ, Dept Econ & Econometr, Rakoczi 80, H-7624 Pecs, Hungary								2							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001125865700001	47	Article; Article		
J	Evans, Brent A.; Clark, Christopher; Pitts, Joshua D.								The Effects of Marijuana Legalization on NCAA Men's Basketball Recruiting								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				25	2			200	216		10.1177/15270025231217975			FEB 2024	2024	Over the past two decades, attitudes toward marijuana usage have softened. This shift in sentiment coincided with reduced punishments, decriminalization, and in some states, legalization. We find evidence of unexpected consequences of marijuana legalization. Using difference-in-difference estimation, we show that legalization correlates with recruiting outcomes in NCAA D1 sports. Specifically, legalization appears to improve basketball recruiting outcomes for in-state colleges but hurts recruiting outcomes for football programs. Since collegiate athletics are directly correlated with revenues and may affect the number of general applications that a university receives, our results reveal a channel through which marijuana laws could impact post-secondary education.		[Evans, Brent A.; Clark, Christopher] Georgia Coll & State Univ, Dept Econ & Finance, 402 Atkinson Hall, Milledgeville, GA 31061 USA; [Pitts, Joshua D.] Kennesaw State Univ, Dept Exercise Sci & Sport Management, Kennesaw, GA USA; [Evans, Brent A.] Georgia Coll & State Univ, Dept Econ & Finance, 402 Atkinson Hall, Milledgeville, GA 31061 USA								2							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001126752400001	24	Article; Article		
J	Ekenros, Linda; von Rosen, Philip; Solli, Guro S.; Sandbakk, Oyvind; Holmberg, Hans-Christer; Hirschberg, Angelica L.; Friden, Cecilia								The perceived influence of menstrual cycle and hormonal contraceptives on training and performance: Comparison between football, handball, and orienteering								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	4			1560	1569		10.1177/17479541231216403			AUG 2024	2024	Recently, we published self-reported data concerning the perceived effects of the menstrual cycle and hormonal contraceptives on the training and performance of 1086 female athletes participating in 57 sports. However, studies comparing differences between sports with large sample sizes are lacking. The aim of this ancillary study was to compare the impact of the menstrual cycle and hormonal contraceptives on training and performance between the three largest sports in the cohort, that is, football, handball, and orienteering, as well as the knowledge and support provided to the female athletes engaged in these sports. The results are from a web-based questionnaire completed by 312 football players, 243 handball players, and 93 orienteers. A total of 54% of the orienteers planned their training based on the menstrual cycle, which was a higher proportion compared to football (45%) and handball (29%) players (p < 0.05). Fewer football players believed that the menstrual cycle had an impact on their performance during training and competition compared to the two other sports. A high proportion of the athletes used hormonal contraceptives in all three sports, but a lower proportion of the orienteers (40%) used hormonal contraceptives compared to football (76%) and handball players (66%) (p < 0.05). Football and handball players received overall more support than orienteers, and the support was mostly provided by a physiotherapist and/or a strength and conditioner coach besides the main coach. These findings demonstrate that the perceived influence of the menstrual cycle and hormonal contraceptives on training and performance differs between endurance athletes in orienteering compared to team-sport athletes in football and handball.		[Ekenros, Linda; von Rosen, Philip; Friden, Cecilia] Care Sci & Soc, Div Physiotherapy Karolinska Inst, Dept Neurobiol, Huddinge, Sweden; [Solli, Guro S.; Sandbakk, Oyvind] Arctic Univ Norway, Sch Sport Sci, UiT, Tromso, Troms, Norway; [Solli, Guro S.] Nord Univ, Dept Sports Sci & Phys Educ, Bodo, Norway; [Sandbakk, Oyvind] Norwegian Univ Sci & Technol, Ctr Elite Sports Res, Dept Neuromed & Movement Sci, Trondheim, Norway; [Holmberg, Hans-Christer] Lulea Univ Technol, Dept Hlth Sci, Lulea, Sweden; [Holmberg, Hans-Christer] Karolinska Inst, Dept Physiol & Pharmacol, Biomedicum C5, Biomedicum C5, Stockholm, Sweden; [Hirschberg, Angelica L.; Friden, Cecilia] Karolinska Inst, Dept Womens & Childrens Hlth, Stockholm, Sweden; [Hirschberg, Angelica L.] Karolinska Univ Hosp, Dept Gynecol & Reprod Med, Stockholm, Sweden; [Friden, Cecilia] Malardalen Univ, Sch Hlth, Dept Physiotherapy, Care & Social Welf, Vasteras, Sweden; [Friden, Cecilia] Care Sci & Soc, Div Physiotherapy Karolinska Inst, Dept Neurobiol, Alfred Nobels 23, S-14152 Huddinge, Sweden; [Friden, Cecilia] Karolinska Inst, Dept Womens & Childrens Hlth, Stockholm, Sweden; [Friden, Cecilia] Malardalen Univ, Sch Hlth Care & Social Welf, Dept Physiotherapy, Vasteras, Vastmanland, Sweden; [Friden, Cecilia] Care Sci & Soc, Div Physiotherapy Karolinska Inst, Dept Neurobiol, Alfred Nobels 23, S-14152 Huddinge, Sweden; [Friden, Cecilia] Karolinska Inst, Dept Womens & Childrens Hlth, Stockholm, Sweden; [Friden, Cecilia] Malardalen Univ, Sch Hlth Care & Social Welf, Dept Physiotherapy, Vasteras, Vastmanland, Sweden								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001127001100001	26	Article; Article		
J	Couto, Bruno P.; Praca, Gibson M.; Gabbett, Tim J.; Luchesi, Marcelo S.; Oliveira, Mariana P.; Sayers, Mark G. L.								The influence of the field orientation on the representativeness of the positional dynamics in soccer small-sided games								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	4			1680	1687		10.1177/17479541231217078			AUG 2024	2024	The aim of this study was to compare the positional dynamics in soccer small-sided games (SSGs) with either greater length (SSGlength) or width (SSGwidth) with official games. Twenty four Brazilian U-20 national-level players participated in six SSGs training sessions with two different SSG configurations: SSGlength (4v4, 40 m length and 26 m width) and SSGwidth (4v4, 26 m length and 40 m width). Positional dynamics variables were monitored and compared to official games. Linear mixed regression model was fitted using the situations as fixed effect, and, when appropriate, player and/or group as random effects. When compared to SSGlength and SSGwidth, official games showed a greater Relative Team Length, LPWratio, Spacial Exploration Index (SEI), and Strech Index, with a large or very large effect size. The SSGlength elicited higher values of Relative Team Width, LPWratio, and SEI when compared to SSGwidth. No significant differences were found between SSGlength and SSGwidth for Relative Team Length (small effect size), and SI (small effect size). Both group and player as random effects showed low variances. We concluded that the tactical behaviours during the 4v4 SSG differed substantially from the competitive tactical behaviour during the official games. In addition, changing the orientation of the playing field did not make the positional dynamics of the SSGs more similar to the official games.		[Couto, Bruno P.] Univ Sunshine Coast, Sch Hlth, 90Sippy Downs Dr, Sippy Downs, Qld 4556, Australia; [Couto, Bruno P.; Praca, Gibson M.; Sayers, Mark G. L.] UFMG Soccer Sci Ctr, Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil; [Praca, Gibson M.; Luchesi, Marcelo S.; Oliveira, Mariana P.] Univ Fed Minas Gerais, Escola Educ Fis Fisioterapia & Terapia Ocupac, Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil; [Gabbett, Tim J.] Gabbett Performance Solut, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [Gabbett, Tim J.] Univ Southern Queensland, Ctr Hlth Res, Ipswich, Qld, Australia; [Gabbett, Tim J.] Federat Univ, Hlth Innovat & Transformat Ctr, Ballarat, Vic, Australia; [Couto, Bruno P.] Univ Sunshine Coast, Sch Hlth, 90Sippy Downs Dr, Sippy Downs, Qld 4556, Australia								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001124411200001	26	Article; Article		
J	Knudson, Duane								Center of mass change in the biomechanics citation network								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	12			3257	3267		10.1080/14763141.2023.2287030			DEC 1 2024	2024	This study examined the hypothesis that the network of citation in biomechanics journals would change over the last decade and specifically the centrality of the journal Sports Biomechanics. Top 20 cited biomechanics journals identified using the 'Journal Citation Relationships' feature from Journal Citation Reports were extracted for 12 'seed' biomechanics journals in 2011, 2016, and 2021. From 2011 till 2021 the total number of top cited biomechanics journals in Journal Citation Reports decreased (17%) from 90 to 74, while the citations to these journals nearly increased 5-fold (8,051 to 39,574). Top Journal Citation Reports cited biomechanics journals changed over time, indicating variability in the centrality of many journals in the biomechanics citation network based on this prestigious database. Over time there were decreasing citation of medical journals, as well as increasing citation of open access mega journals and the journal Sports Biomechanics. Citation network analysis provides insight into the changing structure of knowledge creation in biomechanics, with recent trends towards applied research particularly on wearable sensors published in mega journals.		[Knudson, Duane] Texas State Univ, Dept Hlth & Human Performance, San Marcos, TX 78666 USA; [Knudson, Duane] Texas State Univ, Dept Hlth & Human Performance, San Marcos, TX 78666 USA								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001114307300001	44	Article; Article		
J	Ampuero, Rodrigo; Mellado-Arbelo, Oscar; Fuentes-Garcia, Juan Pedro; Baiget, Ernest								Game sides technical-tactical differences between professional male padel players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	3			1332	1338		10.1177/17479541231218379			JUN 2024	2024	The main objective of this study was to analyze how professional male padel players technically-tactically behave and to whether determine if there are any differences between one game side and the other (left game side, LGS; right game side, RGS). The sample included 12.851 shots corresponding to 8 matches from the quarterfinals, semifinals, and finals of the Premier Padel circuit held in 2022 where 16 different professional right-handed padel male players participated. All matches were analyzed through systematic observation using an ad-hoc instrument. Variables such as, type of strokes, outcomes, hitting zones and switching displacements, were taken into account. Significant differences (p < 0.05) were found on forehands, backhands, backhand volleys, forehand lobs, backhand lobs, counter wall forehand, counter-lateral wall forehand and backhand, and wall descent stroke backhand. Also, significant differences were found regarding the stroke outcomes: into play (RGS 46.4%; p < 0.05); winners (LGS 2.3%; p < 0.01). Finally, significant differences were noticed between switching displacements in which the LGS players switched considerably more times than the RGS (66.7%; p < 0.001). The reported results proved that there exist differences between both game sides regarding their strokes, stroke outcomes, and switching displacements.		[Ampuero, Rodrigo; Mellado-Arbelo, Oscar; Baiget, Ernest] Univ Barcelona UB, Natl Inst Phys Educ Catalonia INEFC, Barcelona, Spain; [Fuentes-Garcia, Juan Pedro] Univ Extremadura, Fac Sport Sci, Caceres, Extremadura, Spain; [Ampuero, Rodrigo] Univ Barcelona UB, Natl Inst Phys Educ Catalonia INEFC, Barcelona, Spain								15							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001114948600001	20	Article; Article		
J	Lee, Minkyo; Zhou, Xiaochen								Real-time psychophysiological approaches to explore emotional and cognitive processing of VR-mediated sports								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				26	2			238	253		10.1108/IJSMS-03-2023-0042			APR 22 2025	2025	PurposeThe purpose of this research was to investigate how VR-mediated sports, as opposed to 2-D screens, affect the emotional and cognitive experiences of fans with the game and its sponsors.Design/methodology/approachThe current study employed a single-factorial experimental design, in which participants were randomly assigned to either watch a soccer game through a VR headset or a 2-D screen. Physiological and self-reported measures were used to measure levels of presence, arousal, attention and memory.FindingsParticipants who watched sports through VR experienced a higher level of presence, greater psychophysiological arousal, and exhibited higher levels of attention toward the game. However, they showed lower recognition for in-stadium signage compared to those who watched the game on a 2-D screen.Practical implicationsThe results suggest that sports teams can use VR to create a more immersive and engaging experience for fans. Additionally, in-stadium signage advertising may not be as effective in VR sport broadcasting contexts, and sports practitioners may want to explore alternative forms of advertising that are better suited for VR environments.Originality/valueMethodologically, this study used a combination of self-reported and real-time physiological measures to capture dynamic and spontaneous changes in fans while watching games. Theoretically, this study utilized the Dynamic Human-Centered Communication System Theory to adopt a human-centered approach to understand how VR impacts the experience of sport game viewers.		[Lee, Minkyo; Zhou, Xiaochen] East Stroudsburg Univ, Dept Sport Management, East Stroudsburg, PA 18301 USA; [Lee, Minkyo] East Stroudsburg Univ, Dept Sport Management, East Stroudsburg, PA 18301 USA								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001113029600001	60	Article; Article		
J	Wang, Xi; You, Xinyi; Xu, Yulan; Zheng, Jie								Online posting intention: do the social communication and brand equity of esports matter?								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				25	1			161	187		10.1108/IJSMS-09-2023-0189			JAN 19 2024	2024	PurposeSocial media's role in engaging participants in sports events, particularly during the pandemic, is acknowledged. However, previous studies often utilized sports events for diverse objectives but overlooked brand equity's influence on sports event development. And very limited research explores social media's impact on brand equity in esports events, despite its significance. Therefore, this study aims to explore how social media affects esports event brand equity and participants' satisfaction and engagement with social media through brand equity's influence.Design/methodology/approachThe study focused on League of Legends World Championships (LOLWC) participants, who completed a self-judged questionnaire online. The questionnaire included demographic details and latent constructs. Data analysis involved two steps: exploratory factor analysis (EFA) to assess measurement scale validity and structural equation modeling (SEM) to study relationships between traits.FindingsThe results reveal that, within the esports event context, controlled communication exerts a meaningful and dual impact - both directly and indirectly - on the fundamental components of brand equity. This, in turn, serves as a catalyst for increasing participant contentment and their posting intention.Originality/valueThis study applies brand equity theories to the esports domain, exploring participant-based brand equity concepts, user behavior and the influence of social media communication on event branding and engagement. It also recommends strategies for event improvement, emphasizes controlled communication for brand equity and highlights marketing's role in brand awareness, association and participant satisfaction. Additionally, it suggests government regulation to address cyber violence during esports events.		[Wang, Xi; You, Xinyi; Xu, Yulan] BNU HKBU United Int Coll, Sch Culture & Creat, Zhuhai, Peoples R China; [Zheng, Jie] Iowa State Univ, Dept Apparel Events & Hospitality Management, Ames, IA USA; [Wang, Xi] BNU HKBU United Int Coll, Sch Culture & Creat, Zhuhai, Peoples R China								9							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001112298600001	117	Article; Article		
J	Allgrunn, Michael; Douglas, Christopher; Wai, Sebastian								Optimal Timeout Choices in Clutch Situations in the NBA								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				25	2			217	230		10.1177/15270025231217961			FEB 2024	2024	When down by a possession in fourth quarter with the shot clock off and possessing the ball, National Basketball Association (NBA) coaches face a decision: take a timeout and draw up a play or let play continue. Utilizing play-by-play data for 16,839 NBA games, we find taking a timeout lowers a team's chances of a successful possession by 5.7 percentage points. Coaches might view taking a timeout as the safe decision, since blame for the loss would fall on the players for not executing the play, not on the coach for failing to call one. This suboptimal behavior suggests there is a principal-agent problem between team owners and coaches.		[Allgrunn, Michael; Wai, Sebastian] Univ South Dakota, Beacom Sch Business, 414 E Clark St, Vermillion, SD 57069 USA; [Douglas, Christopher] Univ Michigan Flint, Dept Social Sci & Humanities, Flint, MI USA; [Wai, Sebastian] Univ South Dakota, Beacom Sch Business, 414 E Clark St, Vermillion, SD 57069 USA								4							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001112666200001	22	Article; Article		
J	Baghdadabad, Masoumeh Baghban; Mohaghegh, Shahram								Balance test results in different hormonal statuses of the menstruation cycle. Are females more susceptible to lower extremities injuries on different days of their menstruation cycles?								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				65				54	58		10.1016/j.ptsp.2023.11.003			JAN 2024	2024	Background: The Star Excursion Balance Test (SEBT) and its modification(mSEBT) as dynamic tests have been shown to have high reliability and validity for the prediction of lower extremities injuries including ACL ones. No previous study has compared mSEBT performance measures in different hormonal statuses of the menstrual cycle in naturally menstruating women. So aim of the study was comparison of mSEBT performance measures in days of the menstruation cycle with the peak of estrogen and progesterone hormones in naturally menstruating women.Methods: After a pilot study for estimation of sample size, mSEBT performance measures in a sample of 18 healthy women with regular menstrual cycles were compared two times in their cycles, first in the peak of estrogen (mid-cycle) and second in time of peak of progesterone (one week later). The test was performed 2 times using either the right or left leg as the stance and reach limb.Findings: No significant difference between days with estrogen and progesterone peaks with right or left reach limb was seen for the percentage of reach in any direction or the composite reach on the mSEBT performance.Conclusion: It seems that there is the same risk for lower extremities injuries in estradiol and progesterone peak days of normal menstruating women.		[Baghdadabad, Masoumeh Baghban] Islamic Azad Univ, Sch Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Dept Sports Physiol & Biomech, Cent Tehran Branch, Tehran, Iran; [Mohaghegh, Shahram] Red Crescent Soc Islamic Republ Iran, Res Ctr Hlth Management Mass Gathering, Tehran, Iran; [Mohaghegh, Shahram] Red Crescent Soc Islamic Republ Iran, Iran Helal Inst Appl Sci & Technol, Tehran, Iran; [Mohaghegh, Shahram] Red Crescent Soc Islamic Republ Iran, Res Ctr Hlth Management Mass Gathering, Tehran, Iran								2							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001133763100001	40	Article; Article		
J	Arias, Roberto; Monaco, Jerry; Schoenfeld, Brad J.								Return to Sport After an Anterior Cruciate Ligament Tear: Bridging the Gap Between Research and Practice								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				45	6			674	682		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000774			DEC 2023	2023	An anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) tear is one of the most frequent injuries experienced by athletes of all levels. Because so many variables are at play, there is a great deal of controversy about how and why this occurs. In addition, there are various suggested appropriate steps to take to return to sport in the fastest and safest possible way. However, a major issue in injury recovery and return to sport practices is the lack of a gold-standard method or a consistent course of action that an athlete should undertake after suffering an ACL injury. Therefore, the purpose of this paper is to review the literature to determine evidence-based methods for return to sport after ACL reconstruction and provide practical recommendations to guide the process.		[Arias, Roberto; Schoenfeld, Brad J.] CUNY Lehman Coll, Dept Exercise Sci & Recreat, New York, NY 10031 USA; [Monaco, Jerry] Seton Hall Univ, Sch Hlth & Med Sci, Dept Phys Therapy, Nutley, NJ USA; [Schoenfeld, Brad J.] CUNY Lehman Coll, Dept Exercise Sci & Recreat, New York, NY 10031 USA								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001114503700004	94	Article; Article		
J	Baylor, Ryan P.; Hinkel-Lipsker, Jacob W.; Jaque, S. Victoria; Flanagan, Sean P.								Older People Trip, Some Fall-A Program to Decrease Seniors' Fall Risk								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				45	6			698	710		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000782			DEC 2023	2023	Supplemental Digital Content is Available in the Text. Falls resulting from trips are a leading cause of injury and can sometimes result in death, especially in the older population. Numerous researchers have studied the biomechanical mechanisms that differentiate fallers from nonfallers and determined whether training can beneficially impact those outcomes. Exercise and task-specific interventions have demonstrated fewer falls after trips but can be costly and often require specialized equipment, making their applicability less practical. Qualified health and fitness practitioners can develop evidence-informed, exercise-based programs focusing on 3 components (balance training, task-specific training, and resistance exercise). Such programs may help to reduce fall risk in older adults based on previously documented studies identifying the biomechanical demands of a successful fall arrest after a trip perturbation. These multicomponent programs should include a safe task-specific training element that does not require specialized equipment.		[Baylor, Ryan P.; Hinkel-Lipsker, Jacob W.; Jaque, S. Victoria; Flanagan, Sean P.] Calif State Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Northridge, CA 91330 USA; [Flanagan, Sean P.] Calif State Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Northridge, CA 91330 USA								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:001114503700008	56	Article; Article		
J	Dai, Lu; Xie, Bixia								Adaptations to Optimized Interval Training in Soccer Players: A Comparative Analysis of Standardized Methods for Individualizing Interval Interventions								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				22	4			760	768		10.52082/jssm.2023.760			DEC 2023	2023	Accurately prescribing supramaximal interval training facilitates targeting desired physiological adaptations. This study compared the homogeneity of adaptations in cardiorespiratory parameters to supramaximal [i.e., intensities beyond maximal aerobic speed (MAS)] interval interventions prescribed using anaerobic speed reserve (ASR), the speed attained at the end of 30-15 Intermittent Fitness Test (V-IFT), and MAS. Using repeated-measures factorial design, and during the off-season phase of the athletes' yearly training cycle, thirty national-level soccer players (age = 19 +/- 1.6 years; body mass = 78.9 +/- 1.6 kg; height = 179 +/- 4.7 cm; Body fat = 11 +/- 0.9%) were randomized to interventions consisting of 2 sets of 6, 7, 8, 7, 8, and 9-min intervals (from 1(st) to 6(th) week), including 15 s running at Delta%20ASR (MAS + 0.2 x ASR), 120%MAS, or 95%V-IFT followed by 15 s passive recovery. All ASR, V-IFT, and MAS programs sufficiently stimulated adaptive mechanisms, improving relative maximal oxygen uptake [VO2max (p < 0.05; ES = 1.6, 1.2, and 1.1, respectively)], absolute VO2max (p < 0.05; ES = 1.5, 1.1, and 0.7), ventilation [V-E (p < 0.05; ES = 1.6, 1.1, and 1.1)], O-2 pulse [VO2/HR (p < 0.05; ES = 1.4, 1.1, and 0.6)], first and second ventilatory threshold [VT1 (p < 0.05; ES = 0.7, 0.8, and 0.7) and VT2 (p < 0.05; ES = 1.1, 1.1, and 0.8)], cardiac output [Q(max) (p = 1.5, 1.0, and 0.7)], and stroke volume [SVmax (p < 0.05; ES = 0.9, 0.7, and 0.5)]. Although there was no between-group difference for the change in the abovementioned variables over time, supramaximal interval training prescribed using ASR and V-IFT resulted in a lower coefficient of variation [CV (inter-individual variability)] in physiological adaptations compared to exercise intensity determined as a proportion of MAS. Expressing the intensity of supramaximal interval programs according to the athlete's ASR and V-IFT would assist in accurately prescribing interventions and facilitate imposing mechanical and related physiological stimulus according to the athletes' physiological ceiling. Such an approach leads to identical stimulation across athletes with differing profiles and potentially facilitates more homogenized adaptations.		[Dai, Lu; Xie, Bixia] Cent South Univ Forestry & Technol, Inst Phys Educ, Changsha, Hunan, Peoples R China; [Xie, Bixia] Cent South Univ Forestry & Technol, Acad Forestry, Changsha, Peoples R China; [Xie, Bixia] Cent South Univ Forestry & Technol, Inst Phys Educ, Changsha 410004, Hunan, Peoples R China; [Xie, Bixia] Cent South Univ Forestry & Technol, Inst Phys Educ, Changsha 410004, Hunan, Peoples R China								17							Sport Sciences	WOS:001106848000001	50	Article; Article		
J	Matsuo, Shingo; Iwata, Masahiro; Miyazaki, Manabu; Fukaya, Taizan; Yamanaka, Eiji; Nagata, Kentaro; Tsuchida, Wakako; Asai, Yuji; Suzuki, Shigeyuki								Acute and Prolonged Effects of 300 sec of Static, Dynamic, and Combined Stretching on Flexibility and Muscle Force								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE											10.52082/jssm.2023.626				2023	Static stretching (SS), dynamic stretching (DS), and combined stretching (CS; i.e., DS+SS) are commonly performed as warm-up exercises. However, the stretching method with the greatest effect on flexibility and performance remains unclear. This ran-domized crossover trial examined acute and prolonged effects of SS, DS, and CS on range of motion (ROM), peak passive torque (PPT), passive stiffness, and isometric and concentric muscle forces. Twenty healthy young men performed 300 sec of active SS, DS, or CS (150-sec SS followed by 150-sec DS and 150-sec DS followed by 150-sec SS) of the right knee flexors on four sep-arate days, in random order. Subsequently, we measured ROM, PPT, and passive stiffness during passive knee extension. We also measured maximum voluntary isometric and concentric knee flexion forces and surface electromyographic activities during force measurements immediately before, immediately after, and 20 and 60 min after stretching. All stretching methods signifi-cantly increased ROM and PPT, while significantly decreasing isometric knee flexion force (all p < 0.05). These changes lasted 60 min after all stretching methods; the increases in ROM and PPT and the decreases in isometric muscle force were similar. All stretching methods also significantly decreased passive stiffness immediately after stretching (all p < 0.05). Decreases in passive stiffness tended to be longer after CS than after SS or DS. Con-centric muscle force was decreased after SS and CS (all p < 0.05). On the other hand, concentric muscle force was unchanged after DS, while the decreases in surface electromyographic activities during concentric force measurements after all stretching meth-ods were similar. Our results suggest that 300 sec of SS, DS, and CS have different acute and prolonged effects on flexibility and muscle force.		[Matsuo, Shingo; Iwata, Masahiro; Asai, Yuji] Nihon Fukushi Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Rehabil, Handa, Japan; [Miyazaki, Manabu] Teikyo Heisei Univ, Fac Med Sci Hlth, Dept Phys Therapy, Tokyo, Japan; [Fukaya, Taizan] Josai Int Univ, Fac Social Work Studies, Dept Phys Therapy, Togane, Japan; [Yamanaka, Eiji] Tokyo Bay Rehabil Hosp, Dept Rehabil Med, Narashino, Japan; [Nagata, Kentaro] Japanese Phys Therapy Assoc, Project Div, Dept Int Affairs, Tokyo, Japan; [Tsuchida, Wakako] Natl Inst Adv Ind Sci & Technol, Hlth & Med Res Inst, Dept Life Sci & Biotechnol, Takamatsu, Kagawa, Japan; [Suzuki, Shigeyuki] Asahi Univ, Sch Hlth Sci, Dept Hlth & Sports Sci, Mizuho, Japan; [Matsuo, Shingo] Nihon Fukushi Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Rehabil, 26-2 Higashihaemi Cho, Handa, Aichi 4750012, Japan								10							Sport Sciences	WOS:001084929800001	44	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Hicks, Dylan S.; Drummond, Claire; Williams, Kym J.; Pickering, Craig; van den Tillaar, Roland								Individualization of Training Based on Sprint Force-Velocity Profiles: A Conceptual Framework for Biomechanical and Technical Training Recommendations								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				45	6			711	725		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000790			DEC 2023	2023	The purpose of this article is to provide practitioners with a system to categorize and individualize training prescription from sprint force-velocity (F-v) profiles to enhance performance in team and individual sport athletes. Despite F-v variables presenting key information about the underpinning mechanisms contributing to sprint performance, the overall data interpretation may be limited for the practitioner to implement applied training interventions compared with the researcher. Therefore, this article provides a conceptual framework for appropriate training prescriptions based on individual biomechanical and technical characteristics contributing to sprint performance.		[Hicks, Dylan S.; Drummond, Claire; Williams, Kym J.] Flinders Univ S Australia, SHAPE Res Ctr, Bedford Pk, Australia; [Pickering, Craig] Athlet Australia, Melbourne, Australia; [van den Tillaar, Roland] Nord Univ, Dept Sport Sci & Phys Educ, Bodo, Norway; [Hicks, Dylan S.] Flinders Univ S Australia, SHAPE Res Ctr, Bedford Pk, Australia								12							Sport Sciences	WOS:001114503700002	80	Article; Article		
J	Gulavani, Susmit S.; Du, James; James, Jeffrey D.								Transcendence beyond sport: examining the dynamic power of sport human brand on national pride								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				25	1			142	160		10.1108/IJSMS-05-2023-0098			JAN 19 2024	2024	PurposeDrawing upon social judgment theory, the research examines whether changes in psychological involvement with a sport human brand owing to their sporting success can generate spillover effects on people's national pride, a proxy for the collective level of well-being and whether the individual's behavioral engagement in sport spectating will moderate this relationship.Design/methodology/approachLeveraging a quasi-natural experiment grounded in the 2021 Indian Premier League championship, the authors solicit responses from 296 representative individuals residing in India twice using a two-wave panel design. The authors conducted confirmatory factor analysis, repeated measures T-test, latent change score analysis, and structural regression analysis to examine the relationship between psychological involvement with sport human brand and national pride.FindingsThe results demonstrate a positive association between psychological involvement with sport human brand and national pride. Further, the findings indicate that an increase in psychological involvement with sport human brand was associated with an increase in national pride due to the successful athletic endeavor involving the sport human brand. However, the relationship between psychological involvement with sport human brand and national pride was invariant irrespective of patrons' spectatorship behavior.Originality/valueThis research demonstrates that sport human brands possess transformative soft power that extends their prerogative cultural identity personified by their athletic ability and success, allowing them to shape public sentiments of national pride via their profound influence through and beyond the complex network of brand ecosystems.		[Gulavani, Susmit S.; Du, James; James, Jeffrey D.] Florida State Univ, Dept Sport Management, Tallahassee, FL 32306 USA; [Gulavani, Susmit S.] Florida State Univ, Dept Sport Management, Tallahassee, FL 32306 USA								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001114047600001	53	Article; Article		
J	Edwards, Dom; Brannagan, Paul Michael								Dealing with de-selection from youth international football: A case study of English Premier League academies								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	4			1776	1784		10.1177/17479541231216873			AUG 2024	2024	This study investigated the perceptions of players and football club staff regarding de-selection from the youth international football environment. Prior research into youth football de-selection focuses on players' experiences of being released from their club environment; however, research is yet to understand the effect of de-selection from international football. The authors completed semi-structured interviews with 11 current youth international footballers and nine members of leadership staff from English Premier League youth academies, including academy directors, technical directors and heads of coaching. It was found that players had a strong identity as an international footballer and that once de-selected, it could be difficult to adapt to a change in status within their group at the club. The club staff also suggested that clubs do little to support the player once de-selected as although they perceive the player as being part of their development programme, they viewed international football as an area that was not their responsibility. Practical applications are discussed, including the need for clear justifications of de-selection and 'after-care' solutions.		[Edwards, Dom; Brannagan, Paul Michael] Manchester Metropolitan Univ, Business Sch, Manchester, England; [Edwards, Dom] Manchester Metropolitan Univ, Business Sch, All St Campus,All St Bldg, Manchester, England; [Edwards, Dom] Manchester Metropolitan Univ, Business Sch, All St Campus,All St Bldg, Manchester, England								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001109571300001	38	Article; Article		
J	Bertozzi, Filippo; Tenderini, Dino; Camuncoli, Federica; Galli, Manuela; Tarabini, Marco								On the relationship between flexibility and jump performance across age and sex: A 15-season retrospective longitudinal study on 229 alpine ski racers								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	4			1757	1766		10.1177/17479541231216815			AUG 2024	2024	Alpine skiing performance depends on several qualities, including lower limb strength, power production and flexibility. However, how these physical skills, as well as their relationship, differ between sexes and evolve in growing skiing athletes is still unclear. We analysed sit-and-reach (SR) and three jump test (height and peak power) scores of over 200 alpine ski racers collected across 15 sports seasons. We stratified data among sex and age categories to assess differences and to interpret the relationships between flexibility and jump performance. The mixed models showed a significant age category and sex effect (p < 0.001) for all the flexibility and jump performance scores, with males having higher jump scores but lower SR scores than females, and all performance scores increasing significantly through the age categories. The regressions between SR and the jump scores performed on the whole database were positively significant for the three jump variations (p < 0.001, R-2 ranging from 8.9% to 15.9%), while when the relationship was reanalysed independently in each age-sex group, only some were significant. Both age and sex influenced the performance in the investigated lower limb power and flexibility qualities, along with their relationship. The presented results suggest that lower limb power and flexibility should be longitudinally assessed, as well as their relationship, for training and testing purposes, considering the sex and growth-related modifications.		[Bertozzi, Filippo; Tarabini, Marco] Politecn Milan, Dept Mech Engn, Milan, Italy; [Bertozzi, Filippo; Camuncoli, Federica; Galli, Manuela; Tarabini, Marco] Politecn Milan, E4Sport Lab, Milan, Italy; [Tenderini, Dino] Sci Club Lecco ASD, Lecce, Italy; [Camuncoli, Federica; Galli, Manuela] Politecn Milan, Dept Elect Informat & Bioengn, Milan, Italy; [Bertozzi, Filippo] Politecn Milan, E4Sport Human Performance Lab, Via G Previati 1-C, I-23900 Lecce, Italy; [Bertozzi, Filippo] Politecn Milan, E4Sport Human Performance Lab, Via G Previati 1-C, I-23900 Lecce, Italy								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001110312800001	47	Article; Article		
J	Stojanovic, Emilija; Faude, Oliver; Scanlan, Aaron T.; Jakovljevic, Vladimir; Cosic, Marko; Kocic, Miodrag; Radovanovic, Dragan								Injury incidence among adolescent and senior basketball players: a prospective study in 19 teams across an entire season								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				52	4			386	394		10.1080/00913847.2023.2284133			JUL 3 2024	2024	Objective: To quantify and compare injury incidence between national-level, adolescent and regional-level, senior, male basketball players competing in Serbia overall and according to injury mechanism (contact, non-contact, or overuse), exposure setting (training or games), and history (new or recurrent).Methods: A total of 218 male basketball players from 19 teams (106 senior and 112 adolescent players) volunteered to participate in the study. Descriptive data regarding game and training injury incidence were gathered across all players and reported per 10,000 athlete-exposures (AE) with 95% confidence intervals.Results: Overall, 26 injuries were reported across 52,509 AE. Ankle (n = 10, incidence rate [IR] = 1.90 [0.97, 3.40]) and knee injuries (n = 8, IR = 1.52 [0.71, 2.89]) accounted for 69% of all reported injuries, with only 1-2 injuries documented for other body regions. Ankle injuries were attributed to contact (60%, IR = 1.14 [0.46, 2.38]) or non-contact mechanisms (40%, IR = 0.76 [0.24, 1.84]). Most knee injuries occurred due to overuse (50%, IR = 0.76 [0.24, 1.84]) or non-contact mechanisms (38%, IR = 0.57 [0.15, 1.56]). Comparisons according to exposure setting revealed significantly higher knee (incidence rate ratio [IRR] = 9.95 [1.85, 53.41], p = 0.004) and ankle (IRR = 39.79 [7.94, 384.67], p < 0.001) injuries per 10,000 AE during games compared to training. Recurrent injuries were most prominent in the ankle (30% of all ankle injuries, p = 0.11). Total contact (p = 0.04), non-contact (p = 0.04), and recurrent IR (p = 0.005) were significantly higher in senior than adolescent players.Conclusion: The players examined were most susceptible to ankle and knee injuries, particularly during games compared to training. Ankle injuries were mostly attributed to player contact, while knee injuries were mostly attributed to overuse and non-contact mechanisms. Senior players were at a greater risk of sustaining contact, non-contact and recurrent injuries than adolescent players.		[Stojanovic, Emilija; Jakovljevic, Vladimir] Univ Kragujevac, Fac Med Sci, Dept Physiol, Kragujevac, Serbia; [Jakovljevic, Vladimir] State Med Univ IM Sechenov, Dept Human Pathol, Moscow, Russia; [Faude, Oliver] Univ Basel, Dept Sport Exercise & Hlth, Basel, Switzerland; [Scanlan, Aaron T.] Cent Queensland Univ, Sch Hlth Med & Appl Sci, Rockhampton, Australia; [Cosic, Marko] Univ Belgrade, Fac Sport & Phys Educ, Belgrade, Serbia; [Kocic, Miodrag; Radovanovic, Dragan] Univ Nis, Fac Sport & Phys Educ, Nish 18000, Serbia; [Radovanovic, Dragan] Univ Nis, Fac Sport & Phys Educ, Nish 18000, Serbia								7							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001111927400001	49	Article; Article		
J	Bergstein, Victoria E.; Agarwal, Amil R.; Solon, Lorenzo F.; Mikula, Jacob D.; Best, Matthew J.; LaPorte, Dawn M.								Epidemiologic trends in hand injuries in the National Football League from 2009-2010 to 2019-2020								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				52	4			400	406		10.1080/00913847.2023.2286942			JUL 3 2024	2024	ObjectivesIn American football, hand injuries have been shown to negatively impact performance. The purpose of this study is to characterize the prevalence and severity of hand injuries in National Football League (NFL) players.MethodsA public online database was utilized to identify hand injuries in NFL players from 2009-2010 to 2019-2020. The primary outcome was to analyze the overall incidence of hand injuries (including wrist, metacarpus, finger, and thumb), injury type by each aforementioned anatomic location, and player position. Injury severity was evaluated based on percentage of injuries in which players returned to play (RTP), number of games missed before RTP, and the percentage of injuries resulting in the player being placed on injured reserve (IR).ResultsOf the 6,127 players included, 847 (13.8%) players sustained a hand injury, of which 24.8%, 34.3%, 17.9%, and 22.9% occurred at the wrist, metacarpus, finger, and thumb, respectively. Of the injured players, 97.4% returned to play following their injury, 14.8% were put on IR, and an average of 1.7 (SD 3.3) games were missed. Quarterbacks were the most likely to sustain hand injuries at all anatomic locations. Wrist injuries were associated with the lowest RTP rate (93.3%), the most players placed on injured reserve (28.6%), and the greatest number of games missed (mean 2.5, SD 4.2).ConclusionHand injuries decreased in prevalence by 65.6% over the 11 NFL seasons evaluated. This trend coincides with the implementation of several safety rules that relate to components of play involving the hands. Quarterbacks experienced the greatest prevalence and severity for all hand injuries. Wrist injuries represent the anatomic location associated with the greatest severity. These findings may be able to inform tailored injury prevention practices by position, and advocate for the further adoption of safety rules to protect players from further injury.		[Bergstein, Victoria E.; Solon, Lorenzo F.; Mikula, Jacob D.; Best, Matthew J.; LaPorte, Dawn M.] Johns Hopkins Univ, Sch Med, Dept Orthopaed Surg, 601 N Caroline St, Baltimore, MD 21287 USA; [Agarwal, Amil R.] George Washington Univ, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Washington, DC USA; [Bergstein, Victoria E.] Johns Hopkins Univ, Sch Med, Dept Orthopaed Surg, 601 N Caroline St, Baltimore, MD 21287 USA								1							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001119801000001	34	Article; Article		
J	Ali, Ahmad Johanif Mohd; Hanafiah, Mohd Hafiz								A cross-country comparison of Malaysia, Thailand and Indonesia golf tourism experience: a perceptual experience of Malaysian golfers								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				25	1			125	141		10.1108/IJSMS-07-2023-0146			JAN 19 2024	2024	PurposeThis scholarly investigation explores the Malaysian golfers' experience in Malaysia, Thailand and Indonesia golf courses. The study sheds light on the unique attributes of golf tourism in each country, including the courses, facilities, services and overall golfing experiences offered to golf tourists.Design/methodology/approachQualitative data were procured through in-depth semi-structured interviews with a cohort of 13 Malaysian golfers.FindingsThe findings indicate that golfers' experiences are affected by the quality of service, facilities, price and course condition, ultimately contributing to their satisfaction level. The evidence suggests that Malaysian golfers are comparatively more satisfied with golf courses in Thailand and Indonesia than in Malaysia.Originality/valueThe study underscores the importance of golf course attributes in retaining existing golfers and enticing new ones. Besides, as comparative research on golf course attributes and destination preferences is scant, this study has far-reaching implications, empowering Malaysian golf course managers to augment the appeal and quality of their golf course destination to optimise the behavioural intentions of golf tourists.		[Ali, Ahmad Johanif Mohd] Tourism Malaysia, Putrajaya, Malaysia; [Hanafiah, Mohd Hafiz] Univ Teknol MARA, Fac Hotel & Tourism Management, Permatang Pauh, Malaysia; [Hanafiah, Mohd Hafiz] Univ Teknol MARA, Fac Hotel & Tourism Management, Permatang Pauh, Malaysia								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001106055600001	77	Article; Article		
J	Wasserberger, Kyle W.; Giordano, Kevin A.								Ground reaction forces in baseball pitching: temporal associations with pitch velocity among high-velocity pitchers								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	5			1464	1478		10.1080/14763141.2023.2284828			MAY 4 2025	2025	How baseball pitchers interact with the ground is an important aspect of pitching technique and performance. Previous studies on ground reaction forces in baseball pitching have largely been limited to pitchers at the youth or adolescent level, with only a few studies examining higher velocity pitchers. Additionally, previous studies have limited their analyses to only peak kinetic values, neglecting any temporal importance of when these peak values occur. Therefore, our purpose was to provide normative ground reaction force values and examine the associations between pitch velocity and ground reaction forces in high-velocity pitchers. We retrospectively extracted pitch velocities as well as rear and lead leg ground reaction force data from internal databases for 105 high-velocity pitchers. We analysed the associations between the full ground reaction force time series and pitch velocity using statistical parametric mapping regression. Regression analysis revealed pitch velocity significantly predicted lead leg braking ground reaction force from approximately 27% to 35% of the period between front foot contact and ball release. These data reinforce the importance of effective braking forces for achieving maximal pitch velocities. Additionally, our observed peak ground reaction force values were considerably higher than those previously reported.		[Wasserberger, Kyle W.] Driveline Baseball, Res & Dev, Kent, WA 98032 USA; [Giordano, Kevin A.] Creighton Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Phoenix, AZ USA; [Giordano, Kevin A.] Holy Cross Hlth, Inst Sports Performance & Orthoped Therapy, Ft Lauderdale, FL USA; [Wasserberger, Kyle W.] Driveline Baseball, Res & Dev, Kent, WA 98032 USA								7							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001119132900001	25	Article; Article		
J	Martin-Miguel, Ivan; Munoz, Diego; Escudero-Tena, Adrian; Toro-Roman, Victor; Sanchez-Alcaraz, Bernardino J.								Differences in performance parameters between winning and losing pairs in men's and women's professional padel								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	3			1339	1348		10.1177/17479541231213544			JUN 2024	2024	The study aims to analyze the differences between winning and losing pairs depending on the sex and the round of the tournament in professional padel. A total of 814 matches (438 men and 376 women) from the draw rounds of eight World Padel Tour Open and Master tournaments played during the 2022 season were analyzed by systematic observation. The results indicate that the winning pair obtains more points won (p < 0.001), more break balls (p < 0.001), breaks (p < 0.001), golden points won (p < 0.001), and golden points won to the return (p < 0.001) compared to the losing pair, regardless of sex (p < 0.05) and round. Regarding the differences in both sexes, men players obtained more points won (p = 0.025) and golden points won on serve (p = 0.032), while women players obtained more breaks (p = 0.004), with differences in the winning pairs (p < 0.001). Concerning the round, it only influences the golden points won to the return in men's padel (p = 0.037), with a greater difference in the final than in the other rounds. In conclusion, these differences show key game variables that affect the final score, differentiating between sex and establishing game tactics in competition to optimize the players' performance.		[Martin-Miguel, Ivan; Munoz, Diego; Escudero-Tena, Adrian; Toro-Roman, Victor] Univ Extremadura, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Caceres, Spain; [Sanchez-Alcaraz, Bernardino J.] Univ Murcia, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Act & Sport, Murcia, Spain; [Munoz, Diego] Univ Extremadura, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Caceres, Spain								10							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001104926300001	39	Article; Article		
J	Sanchez-Lopez, Ruben; Echeazarra, Ibon; Arrieta, Jon Mikel; Castellano, Julen								Declarative tactical knowledge from 12 to 22 years old in a professional football club: Real Sociedad								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	4			1651	1670		10.1177/17479541231208928			AUG 2024	2024	This work aimed to measure and compare the declarative tactical knowledge (DTK) of the total number of academy players (n = 163; 16.75 +/- 2.42 years) from the seven teams that make up the men's section of a Spanish professional football club. The 'TESTACTICO for F7' tool was used to access the DTK of the participants in May 2022 (last part of the season), analysing the results obtained according to the age category (U14, U16, U19 and U23), and ensuring an adequate sample strength (f = 0.26) via G*Power. The analysis of variancewas used, through Tukey's HSD contrast test for post hoc multiple comparisons, evaluating the magnitude of the differences found by pairs of age categories through Cohen's d effect size. The macro-level comparisons between age categories evidenced differences (p <= .017) with different effect sizes (2.17 < d > 0.55) in global, offensive and defensive scores, revealing two homogeneous groups: U14 + U16 and U19 + U23. In addition, the offensive score was higher than the defensive score in all age categories. At the meso-level, differences were found (p <= .008) with different effect sizes (1.24 < d > 0.22) in 12 variables. At the micro-level, offensive behaviours outside of the game centre linked to depth, width and positioning, as well as defensive situations in which a tackle must be made are not declaratively dominated in any age category. It is concluded that, in a specific performance-oriented context, although the overall DTK scores are influenced by the age, different changes between age categories were verified.		[Sanchez-Lopez, Ruben; Echeazarra, Ibon; Castellano, Julen] Univ Basque Country, Phys Educ & Sport, Vitoria, Spain; [Echeazarra, Ibon; Arrieta, Jon Mikel] Real Soc Futbol, Methodol Dept, Donostia San Sebastian, Spain; [Sanchez-Lopez, Ruben] Univ Basque Country, Phys Educ & Sport, Vitoria 01015, Spain; [Sanchez-Lopez, Ruben] Univ Basque Country, Phys Educ & Sport, Vitoria 01015, Spain								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001105131300001	81	Article; Article		
J	Gonzalez-Fernandez, Francisco Tomas; Clemente, Filipe Manuel; Rodriguez-Garcia, Lorena; Castillo-Rodriguez, Alfonso								Effects of 16-weeks of strength training on jump height and anthropometric variables in U19 semi-professional male soccer players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	4			1641	1650		10.1177/17479541231210093			AUG 2024	2024	Purpose: The aim of our study was to examine the effect of 16 weeks of strength training on anthropometric characteristics and jump height in semi-professional male players after a pre-season period.Methods: A parallel two-group, longitudinal (pre, post) design was used with physical tests performed before (preintervention) and after (postintervention) the 16-week intervention period. The soccer players were assigned and matched into two groups, an experimental group (EG) and a control group (CG), based on the team of which they were a part.Results: A two-way ANOVA was performed with group and time as factors. The results of a two-way ANOVA revealed no timexgroup interaction for body composition or jump height. Nevertheless, a paired measures t-test of weight, fat mass, lean mass, and countermovement jump (CMJ) test metrics (pre-post) and group (CG and EG) showed an improvement in all measures (p < 0.01).Discussion: The 16-week intervention program resulted in an improvement in the EG both at the level of body composition and in CMJ performance.Conclusions: Despite the benefits of the 16-week intervention program, a combination of training methods that includes power, agility-coordination, speed, and strength can enhance such improvements. It is important to take this strength-specific capacity into account in training, due to the importance outlined in the sport of soccer both for its transfer to both linear and COD sprints and specific strength skills and mainly to vertical jump.		[Gonzalez-Fernandez, Francisco Tomas; Castillo-Rodriguez, Alfonso] Univ Granada, Dept Phys Educ & Sports, Granada, Spain; [Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Inst Politecn Viana do Castelo, Escola Super Desporto & Lazer, Viana Do Castelo, Portugal; [Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Delegacao Covilha, Inst Telecomunicacoes, Lisbon, Portugal; [Rodriguez-Garcia, Lorena] Pontif Univ Comillas, Dept Phys Act & Sport Sci, CESAG, Palma De Mallorca, Spain; [Gonzalez-Fernandez, Francisco Tomas] Univ Granada, Dept Phys Educ & Sports, Granada, Spain								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001104932700001	45	Article; Article		
J	Furley, Philip; Thrien, Fanny								A smile can go a long way: The effects of dominant and rewarding smiles of coaches on athletes in an evaluative performance context								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	2			525	538		10.1177/17479541231213307			APR 2024	2024	Non-verbal expressions from other people play an important role in everyday life. We tested the psychological and physiological effects of different non-verbal facial expressions given by a coach to athletes in a performance context. In a study with 60 athletes, we tested how dominance versus reward smiles shown by a coach after various performances affected athletes' subjective affective state, stress levels, and their own facial expressions. Results showed that athletes who perceived dominant smiles after their performances had higher heart-rates than those who received rewarding smiles. Athletes receiving dominant smiles also reported feeling less happy after their performances than athletes receiving rewarding smiles. No effects were evident on subjective stress levels and facial expressions of emotion measured by Noldus FaceReader. The present results are the first to show that subtle differences in facial expressions of coaches can affect an athlete's heart rate and affective state in an evaluative performance context. The results join research on the interpersonal effects of non-verbal behaviour between athletes and their coaches. They provide evidence that the facial expressions of coaches have communicative content that is perceived by the athletes and influences them on different levels.		[Furley, Philip] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Training & Comp Sci Sports, Sportpk Mungersdorf 6, D-50933 Cologne, Germany; [Thrien, Fanny] Martin Luther Univ Halle Wittenberg, Inst Sport Sci, Halle, Germany; [Furley, Philip] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Training & Comp Sci Sports, Sportpk Mungersdorf 6, D-50933 Cologne, Germany								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001102232800001	44	Article; Article		
J	Selvakumar, Sharon; Li, Sin Ming; Fahey, Paul; Cheung, Roy T. H.								Effect of surface inclination on vertical loading rate and footstrike pattern in trail and road runners								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	11			3242	3251		10.1080/14763141.2023.2278163			NOV 2 2025	2025	Trail runners have been reported to be more injury prone than road runners. Limited past studies have examined the difference in the running biomechanics between the two groups of runners. More importantly, the effect of surface inclination has not been fully investigated. Hence, this study examined the effect of surface inclination on running biomechanics in trail and road runners. Twenty trails and 20 road runners were recruited in this study. Trail runners appeared to be more experienced and had longer training distance per week (p < 0.001) compared to road runners. All participants ran at a self-selected pace on an instrumented treadmill in three inclination conditions (i.e., level, +10% uphill and -10% downhill) in a random order. Vertical average loading rate (VALR), vertical instantaneous loading rate (VILR) and footstrike angle (FSA) were measured using established methods. Trail runners experienced greater VILR (p = 0.039, Cohen's d = 2.9) with a greater FSA (p = 0.002, Cohen's d = 1.1) during downhill running than road runners. No significant differences in VALR, VILR and FSA were found between the two groups during level and uphill running. Our findings provide potential biomechanical rationale to explain a higher injury incidence among trail runners.		[Selvakumar, Sharon; Fahey, Paul; Cheung, Roy T. H.] Western Sydney Univ, Sch Hlth Sci, Campbelltown, NSW, Australia; [Li, Sin Ming] Tseung Kwan O Hosp, Physiotherapy Dept, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [Fahey, Paul; Cheung, Roy T. H.] Western Sydney Univ, Translat Hlth Res Inst, Westmead, NSW, Australia; [Cheung, Roy T. H.] Western Sydney Univ, Sch Hlth Sci, Campbelltown, NSW, Australia; [Cheung, Roy T. H.] Western Sydney Univ, Translat Hlth Res Inst, Westmead, NSW, Australia								5							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001103602900001	44	Article; Article		
J	Ripley, N. J.; Fahey, J.; Cuthbert, M.; McMahon, J. J.; Comfort, P.								Rapid force generation during unilateral isometric hamstring assessment: reliability and relationship to maximal force								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	11			3218	3229		10.1080/14763141.2023.2276316			NOV 2 2025	2025	Limited research has reported the reliability of rapid force generation characteristics during isometric assessments of the hamstrings. Therefore, the purpose of the present study was to determine the between-session reliability of rapid force generating characteristics of the hamstrings and relationship to maximal force production. Twenty-three female soccer players (age: 20.7 +/- 4.7 years; height: 168.7 +/- 5.9 cm; body mass: 64.4 +/- 6.7 kg) performed three unilateral trials of the 90-90 isometric hamstring assessment, on two separate occasions, separated by 7 days. Peak force, force at 100- and 200 ms and average rate of force development (aRFD) over 100- and 200 ms epochs were calculated. Absolute and fair-good reliability was observed for peak force and all rapid force generating measures (<8.33CV%, ICC >0.610). Significant and meaningful relationships (p < 0.001, r > 0.802) were observed for all rapid force generating measures and peak force. The 90-90 isometric assessment can be used to assess peak and rapid force generating reliably to enable practitioners to confidently track changes in performance over time as part of fatigue monitoring and management.		[Ripley, N. J.; Fahey, J.; Cuthbert, M.; McMahon, J. J.; Comfort, P.] Univ Salford, Sch Hlth & Soc, Salford, England; [Cuthbert, M.] Football Assoc Grp, Burton Upon Trent, Staffs, England; [Comfort, P.] Edith Cowan Univ, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, Joondalup, Australia; [Ripley, N. J.] Univ Salford, Sch Hlth & Soc, Salford, England								17							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001102759500001	50	Article; Article		
J	Donovan, Luke; Torp, Danielle M.; Thomas, Abbey C.								Within-session and between-session effects of auditory biofeedback training on center of pressure location during gait in patients with chronic ankle instability								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				64				156	162		10.1016/j.ptsp.2023.04.009			NOV 2023	2023	Objectives: To establish preliminary gait training dosage parameters for patients with chronic ankle instability (CAI) by determining the within-session and between-session effects of auditory biofeedback training on center of pressure (COP) location during gait. Design: Observational Longitudinal. Setting: Laboratory. Participants: 19 participants with CAI, 8 participants who did not receive auditory biofeedback (NoFeedback group) and 11 participants who did receive auditory biofeedback (AuditoryFeedback group) over an 8-session 2-week intervention. Main outcome measures: COP location was measured at the start and at each 5-min interval during treadmill walking across all eight 30-min training sessions. Results: The AuditoryFeedback group had significant within-session lateral-to-medial shifts in COP location during only session-1 at the 15-min (45% of stance; peak mean difference 1/4 4.6 mm), 20-min (35% and 45%; 4.2 mm), and 30-min time intervals (35% and 45%; 4.1 mm). Furthermore, the AuditoryFeedback group had significant between-session lateral-to-medial shifts in COP location at session-5 (35-55% of stance; 4.2 mm), session-7 (35%-95%; 6.7 mm), and session-8 (35%-95%; 7.7 mm). The NoFeedback group had no significant changes in COP location within-sessions or between-sessions. Conclusions: Participants with CAI who received auditory biofeedback during gait needed an average of 15-min during session-1 to meaningfully shift their COP location medially and 4-sessions before retaining the adapted gait pattern.		[Donovan, Luke; Thomas, Abbey C.] Univ North Carolina Charlotte, Charlotte, NC USA; [Torp, Danielle M.] Univ Kentucky, Lexington, KY USA; [Donovan, Luke] 9201 Univ City Blvd, Charlotte, NC 28223 USA; [Donovan, Luke] 9201 Univ City Blvd, Charlotte, NC 28223 USA								1							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001112677300001	26	Article; Article		
J	de Osso, Ana Fernandez; Pecci, Javier; Sanchez-Trigo, Horacio; Munoz, Diego; Escudero-Tena, Adrian; Leon, Juan								Differences between genders and competitive levels on technical-tactical parameters in padel: Implications for training								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	3			1349	1356		10.1177/17479541231211667			JUN 2024	2024	Padel is a complex racket sport with a wide variety of technical actions and tactical possibilities. The aim was to compare the duration of the rallies, the number of shots, the shot frequency and the shot frequency between elite and amateur padel players of different genders, which is necessary to guide the training process. The results show that the duration of the rally is longer in elite padel than in amateur padel, both in men (p < 0.001) and in women (p < 0.001). In addition, according to gender, greater in women's padel than in men's padel, both in elite (p < 0.001) and amateur (p < 0.001). The number of shots per point is greater in elite padel than in amateur padel, both in men (p < 0.001) and in women (p < 0.001). Furthermore, according to gender, greater in women's padel than in men's padel in elite padel (p < 0.001) and no significant differences were found in amateur padel (p = 0.800). The shot frequency is longer in elite padel (X: 0.87) than amateur padel (X: 0.82) and in men padel (X: 0.86) than women padel (X: 0.82), although no significant differences were found. Finally, the player on the right tends to hits the ball less than the player on the left (except women elite players). These results are highly relevant for coaches, as they allow them to guide training processes and quantify the specific workloads of the match based on the gender and level of the players.		[de Osso, Ana Fernandez; Leon, Juan] Univ San Isidoro, Seville, Spain; [Pecci, Javier; Sanchez-Trigo, Horacio] Univ Seville, Seville, Spain; [Munoz, Diego; Escudero-Tena, Adrian] Univ Extremadura, Badajoz, Spain; [Escudero-Tena, Adrian] Univ Extremadura, Badajoz, Spain								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001101448400001	41	Article; Article		
J	Gonzalez-Devesa, Daniel; Hermo-Argibay, Alberto; Blanco-Martinez, Nerea; Ayan-Perez, Carlos								Immediate effect of the use of toe separators on dynamic balance and ankle range of motion: a pilot study								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				52	4			374	380		10.1080/00913847.2023.2278190			JUL 3 2024	2024	Background and Objectives Injuries involving ankle stability and range of motion are among the most frequent in athletes and in the general population. In response, this study aimed to assess the immediate effects of toe separators on dynamic stability and ankle range of motion in healthy young individuals.Methods Among the 68 eligible participants, 50 healthy and active subjects completed all trials. The impact of the intervention was evaluated using the Weight Bearing Lunge Test and Y-Test. The control condition performed the tests without toe separators, while the experimental condition performed the tests with toe separators. All participants performed both conditions with a wash-out period of at least 7 days between trials.Results Statistical analysis revealed no significant differences in dynamic balance (p > 0.05) and range of motion (p > 0.05) between the two conditions. Additionally, no asymmetries were detected between the lower limbs in both tests (p > 0.05).Conclusions The results of this pilot study indicate that using toe separators does not have an immediate effect on ankle range of motion and dynamic balance in young, healthy individuals. Future research should consider evaluating intervention programs of longer duration and exploring different populations.		[Gonzalez-Devesa, Daniel; Blanco-Martinez, Nerea; Ayan-Perez, Carlos] Univ Vigo, Fac Ciencias Educ & Deporte, Campus Xunqueira S-N, Pontevedra 36005, Spain; [Hermo-Argibay, Alberto] Univ Valencia, Biomed Res Inst Valencia, Dept Physiol, INCLIVA, Valencia, Spain; [Hermo-Argibay, Alberto] Univ Hosp Doctor Peset, Fdn Promot Hlth & Biomed Res inthe Valencian Reg F, Serv Endocrinol & Nutr, Valencia, Spain; [Ayan-Perez, Carlos] UVIGO, Galicia Hlth Res Inst IIS Galicia Sur, Spain Well Move Res Grp, SERGAS, Vigo, Spain; [Gonzalez-Devesa, Daniel] Univ Vigo, Fac Ciencias Educ & Deporte, Campus Xunqueira S-N, Pontevedra 36005, Spain								0							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001097704200001	43	Article; Article		
J	Henderson, Zachariah J.; Wang, Shizhen; Cornish, Stephen M.; Scribbans, Trisha D.								Exploring the acute muscle fatigue response in resistance trained individuals during eccentric quasi-isometric elbow flexions-a cross-sectional comparison of repetition and sex								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	5			1362	1384		10.1080/14763141.2023.2269543			MAY 4 2025	2025	Eccentric quasi-isometrics (EQIs) are a novel, low-velocity resistance exercise technique that incorporates a holding isometric contraction to positional fatigue, followed by voluntary resistance of the resulting eccentric muscle action. As females are typically more fatigue resistant than males during isometric and low-velocity dynamic muscle actions, this study explored sex-differences in the muscle fatigue response to an EQI protocol. Twenty-five (n = 12 female) participants completed 4 unilateral EQI elbow flexions. Absolute and relative surface electromyography (sEMG) amplitude (iEMG, LE peak), mean power frequency (MPF), angular impulse (aIMP), and elbow angle were compared across repetitions and between sexes using discrete values and statistical parametric/non-parametric mapping. There were significant and substantial sex and repetition differences in absolute iEMG, MPF, and aIMP, however, males and females had statistically similar absolute aIMP by repetition 4. When expressed relatively, there were no significant sex-differences. Additionally, there were significant between repetition changes in sEMG amplitude and elbow angle with an increasing number of repetitions, largely in the first-two thirds of repetition time. The current study suggests that there are absolute, but not relative sex-differences in EQI induced muscle fatigue, and the effects across repetitions occur predominately in the first two-thirds of repetition time.		[Henderson, Zachariah J.] Univ Manitoba, Appl Hlth Sci, Winnipeg, MB, Canada; [Wang, Shizhen; Cornish, Stephen M.; Scribbans, Trisha D.] Univ Manitoba, Fac Kinesiol & Recreat Management, Winnipeg, MB, Canada; [Scribbans, Trisha D.] Univ Manitoba, Fac Kinesiol & Recreat Management, Winnipeg, MB, Canada								6							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001095012600001	65	Article; Article		
J	Ock, Deokkyung; Hwang, Yongjin								The impacts of social needs and game playing type on esports consumers' positive eWOM sharing: applying the FIRO theory								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				24	5			967	984		10.1108/IJSMS-02-2023-0022			NOV 2 2023	2023	Purpose - The current study aims to examine esports consumers' social needs (inclusion, affection and control) as antecedents of positive eWOM intention. Additionally, the moderating effects of game playing type (individual-based competition vs. team-based competition) were tested to determine whether the inherent socializing opportunities provided by each game playing type have different effects on the relationship between social needs and eWOM communication of esports consumers. Design/methodology/approach - A cross-sectional survey design was applied to 387 responses collected from an online survey platform. After checking several assumptions, a series of regression analyses were performed to test the suggested hypotheses. Findings - The results revealed that the needs for inclusion, affection and control were positively associated with eWOM intention. Furthermore, the relationships between inclusion and eWOM intention and affection and eWOM intention were moderated by game playing type. Originality/value - The current study extended the fundamental interpersonal relations orientation theory from conventional interpersonal relationships to interpersonal communication in online platforms. This research also suggested that eWOM communication in esports could be supplemental social opportunities, especially for individual-based competition games.		[Ock, Deokkyung; Hwang, Yongjin] Univ South Carolina, Dept Sport & Entertainment Management, Columbia, SC 29208 USA; [Ock, Deokkyung] Univ South Carolina, Dept Sport & Entertainment Management, Columbia, SC 29208 USA								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001195312600001	1	Article; Article		
J	Spies, Fabienne; Heger, Larissa; Bindel, Tim; Pfeiffer, Mark								Interest as a supplementary criterion in the detection of talent: The identification of differing types of children at primary school age								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	3			1186	1195		10.1177/17479541231203497			JUN 2024	2024	Current efforts to design an effective method of detecting talent are now focused on the differing interests of children (preferences) and not just their sport-related motor skills (ability). When a person-oriented approach is used, it is important to profile different types to design movement offers that effectively target the relevant groups and prevent dropouts. The aim of this study was to investigate in the elementary school context what types it is possible to identify in terms of both interests and ability. A total of 159 children (age 8-11.5) were assessed to determine their interests and their ability using a sequential design approach. 'Preferences' were scored on a seven-point Likert scale during a video-assisted interview. 'Ability' was assessed using seven sport-related motor skills tests. The mixed-methods approach consisted of a quantitative step 1, a cluster analysis (SPSS27, Ward's method, squared Euclidean distance). Based on the clusters, in-depth qualitative interviews were conducted in step 2. Analysis revealed five clusters of children that exhibited significant differences in terms of ability and interests. The qualitative interviews clarify the characteristics of the types (e.g. special interest in recreational activities or in competing at a high level with high or low own performance) and describe their experiences and desires. The data indicates that children's interests are determined by positive experiences and prior knowledge. Schools, sports practice, and sports science are faced with the task of responding suitably to children with different combinations of ability and preferences in the early phase of talent detection.		[Spies, Fabienne; Heger, Larissa; Bindel, Tim; Pfeiffer, Mark] Johannes Gutenberg Univ Mainz, Inst Sportwissensch, Mainz, Germany; [Spies, Fabienne] Johannes Gutenberg Univ Mainz, Inst Sportwissensch, Albert Schweitzer Str 22, D-55128 Mainz, Germany; [Spies, Fabienne] Johannes Gutenberg Univ Mainz, Inst Sportwissensch, Albert Schweitzer Str 22, D-55128 Mainz, Germany								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001090799300001	45	Article; Article		
J	Bates, Samantha; Anderson-Butcher, Dawn; Ute, Doug; McVey, Dale; Mack, Sydney; Nothnagle, Emily; Wade-Mdivanian, Rebecca; Davis, Jerome; DeVoll, Josh; Vassaloti, Joe; Hix, Jason; Pata, Kaz; Ludban, Chris; Bobek, Nathan; Myers, Keith; Porter, Kevin; Quackenbush, Jeff; Roberts, Joe; Hajjar, Nick; Durbin, Pat; Wolfe, Tyler; Magistrale, Nick								Mental health training for high school coaches and athletic directors: Community-based participatory research to Coach Beyond								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	2			539	550		10.1177/17479541231201257			APR 2024	2024	Training to improve high school sport coaches' and athletic directors' knowledge, skills, and competencies to address and respond to rising mental health concerns is more important than ever. High school student-athletes are at increased risk for mental health concerns, given the pressures of balancing sport, school, and other responsibilities. This paper describes a community-based participatory research (CBPR) study that guided two years of public impact and social change efforts to improve coach education and training in one large Midwestern state in the United States. Our collective goal was to empower coaches and athletic directors to coach "beyond the Xs and Os." Using a CBPR framework, we describe the decision-making process that led to the co-development and implementation of a mental health training program piloted with 147 high school coaches and athletic directors. We also describe intermediate outcomes associated with our collective change efforts demonstrating the value of using a CBPR approach. Our "Coach Beyond" processes and outputs showcase how CBPR can lead to transformative action and social change to reorient sport as a context focused on the holistic health, wellness, and development of student-athletes.		[Bates, Samantha; Anderson-Butcher, Dawn; Mack, Sydney; Nothnagle, Emily; Wade-Mdivanian, Rebecca] Ohio State Univ, Coll Social Work, Columbus, OH USA; [Ute, Doug; McVey, Dale] Ohio High Sch Athlet Assoc, Columbus, OH USA; [Davis, Jerome] Ohio State Univ, Dept Athlet, Columbus, OH USA; [DeVoll, Josh] Granville Exempted Sch, Granville, OH USA; [Vassaloti, Joe] Akron City Sch, Akron, OH USA; [Hix, Jason] Elgin Local Sch, Marion, OH USA; [Pata, Kaz; Ludban, Chris; Bobek, Nathan] Hilliard City Sch, Columbus, OH USA; [Myers, Keith] Logan Hocking High Sch, Logan, OH USA; [Porter, Kevin] Mansfield Sr High Sch, Mansfield, OH USA; [Quackenbush, Jeff] Newark High Sch, Newark, OH USA; [Roberts, Joe] Princeton City Sch, Cincinnati, OH USA; [Hajjar, Nick] North Union Sch, Richwood, OH USA; [Durbin, Pat] Canal Winchester Sch, Winchester, OH USA; [Wolfe, Tyler; Magistrale, Nick] Dublin City Sch, Dublin, OH USA; [Bates, Samantha] Ohio State Univ, Coll Social Work, 1947 N Coll Rd, Columbus, OH 43210 USA; [Bates, Samantha] Ohio State Univ, Coll Social Work, 1947 N Coll Rd, Columbus, OH 43210 USA								8							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001090837400001	30	Article; Article		
J	Silva, Nuno; Travassos, Bruno; Goncalves, Bruno; Brito, Joao; Nakamura, Fabio; Abade, Eduardo								Effects of warm-up duration on acute physical performance in highly trained male futsal players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	4			1632	1640		10.1177/17479541231208009			AUG 2024	2024	Warm-up is a traditional pre-match routine that aims to enhance players' readiness to subsequent activity. Manipulating the warm-up structure may be important to enhance acute performance. This study aimed to investigate the effects of different warm-up durations on futsal players' physical performance. Twelve highly trained male futsal players participated in this study during the in-season. All players performed three different warm-up protocols on consecutive days that differed on its total duration: normal (28-minute), short (15-minute) and very short (10-minute). All protocols included the same exercises, performed in the same sequence and with equal time percentage. Testing included 5 and 10 m linear sprint, 505 change of direction, countermovement jump (CMJ) and reactive strength index (RSI) and was performed in three different moments: pre warm-up, post warm-up and post10' warm-up. CMJ and RSI improved in all protocols at post warm-up, with greater effects observed after very short protocol. However, no effects were observed at post10' for vertical jump after all protocols. Sprint was improved in post warm-up after short and very short warm-up. Normal warm-up promoted positive effects in sprint at post10'. None of the protocols promoted positive effects in COD at post10'. Very short warm-ups appear to positively influence jumping and running performances, although these effects may be attenuated over time. Normal warm-ups could be valid for maintaining readiness during longer inactive periods that may characterize pre-match routines. Also, different responses may emerge from the same warm-up structure, which reinforces the need of adjusting warm-up according to players' individual profiles.		[Silva, Nuno; Nakamura, Fabio] Univ Maia, Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev, CIDESD, ISMAI, Ave Carlos de Oliveira Campos, P-4475690 Castelo Da Maia, Maia, Portugal; [Travassos, Bruno] Univ Beira Interior, Res Ctr Sports Sci, Hlth Sci & Human Dev, CIDESD,UBI, Covilha, Portugal; [Travassos, Bruno; Goncalves, Bruno; Brito, Joao; Abade, Eduardo] Portuguese Football Federat, Portugal Football Sch, Oeiras, Portugal; [Goncalves, Bruno] Univ Evora, Sports & Hlth Dept, Hlth & Human Dev, Evora, Portugal; [Goncalves, Bruno] Univ Evora, Comprehens Hlth Res Ctr CHRC, Evora, Portugal; [Abade, Eduardo] Univ Tras Os Montes & Alto Douro, Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev, CIDESD, UTAD, Vila Real, Portugal; [Silva, Nuno] Univ Maia, Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev, CIDESD, ISMAI, Ave Carlos de Oliveira Campos, P-4475690 Castelo Da Maia, Maia, Portugal								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001090825900001	33	Article; Article		
J	Kons, Rafael Lima; Detanico, Daniele; Costa, Filipe Estacio; Franchini, Emerson; Dopico-Calvo, Xurxo; Morales Aznar, Jose; Loturco, Irineu; Weldon, Anthony								Strength and conditioning practices of judo coaches								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	2			573	585		10.1177/17479541231206910			APR 2024	2024	Strength and conditioning (S&C) is applied across various sports and levels. However, more evidence is needed regarding the practices and perspectives of those delivering S&C, with recent evidence in particular sports and countries showing that sports coaches and support staff are often tasked with this responsibility. Therefore, this study aimed to investigate judo coaches' S&C practices and perspectives across different countries. Thirty-three judo coaches completed an online survey with six sections: (a) informed consent, (b) background information, (c) education, qualifications, and prescription, (d) views on S&C, (e) exercise selection and preferences, and (f) issues and improvements. Frequency analysis was used to report responses to fixed-response questions, and thematic analysis for open-ended questions. All respondents (n = 33) reported S&C as "important" to "very important" for all judo aspects. The most important exercises prescribed were squats including variations for strength, weightlifting and derivatives for speed and power, judo-specific movements for agility and fitness, and stretching/mobility for injury reduction. Regarding perceived issues, disadvantages, desired improvements, and future developments in S&C, the most frequent responses were related to motivation, increased staffing, expertise, and technology integration, respectively. This study provides valuable information for those pursuing or currently delivering S&C within judo. Judo coaches can use the presented data to compare, align, and explain their practices with fellow coaches, athletes, and support staff.		[Kons, Rafael Lima] Univ Fed Bahia, Fac Educ, Dept Phys Educ, Salvador, BA, Brazil; [Detanico, Daniele; Costa, Filipe Estacio] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Sports Ctr, Biomech Lab, Florianopolis, SC, Brazil; [Franchini, Emerson] Univ Sao Paulo, Sch Phys Educ & Sport, Sport Dept, Martial Arts & Combat Sports Res Grp, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Dopico-Calvo, Xurxo] Univ A Coruna, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Performance & Hlth Grp, La Coruna, Spain; [Morales Aznar, Jose] Ramon Llull Univ, Dept Sports Sci, Blanquerna, Barcelona, Spain; [Loturco, Irineu] NAR Nucleus High Performance Sport, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Loturco, Irineu] Univ South Wales, Cardiff, Wales; [Weldon, Anthony] Birmingham City Univ, Ctr Life & Sport Sci, Birmingham, England; [Weldon, Anthony] Newman Univ, Exercise & Hlth Res Ctr, Birmingham, England; [Weldon, Anthony] Univ Coll Birmingham, Sch Hlth Sport & Food, Birmingham, England; [Kons, Rafael Lima] Univ Fed Bahia, Fac Educ, Dept Educ, BR-40110100 Salvador, BA, Brazil; [Kons, Rafael Lima] Univ Fed Bahia, Fac Educ, Dept Educ, BR-40110100 Salvador, BA, Brazil								11							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001090246500001	46	Article; Article		
J	Li, Xiong; Wang, Xin; Chen, Long; Zhao, Tianyu								Effects of body angles on the aerodynamic characteristics in the flight period of ski jumping: a simulation study								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	5			1385	1399		10.1080/14763141.2023.2269556			MAY 4 2025	2025	The flight period of ski jumping involves aerodynamic considerations. Reasonable controls and adjustments of in-flight body attitudes are beneficial to improve the aerodynamic performance of athletes, thus obtaining a longer flight distance. Here, the aerodynamic forces and moments of a simplified body-ski model in the flight period are calculated via the computational fluid dynamics (CFD) method, considering influences of head angle, hip angle, and body-ski angle, and the contributions of each body part are discussed. Results show that the hip angle and body-ski angle dominate the aerodynamic performance, and the skis and the trunk contribute most to the aerodynamic force and moment. In addition, based on CFD results, the hip angle and body-ski angle are selected as design variables, and optimisations for lift area and lift-to-drag ratio are conducted via the combination of Kriging models and genetic algorithm. When the lift-to-drag ratio reaches its peak (which is beneficial to the early flight), the athlete should keep a flatter body attitude, leading to a relatively low lift area and drag area. Properly raising the posture of the body can get a higher lift area, which is beneficial to balance the gravity and prolong the athletes' flight distance in the late flight.		[Li, Xiong; Zhao, Tianyu] Northeastern Univ, Dept Mech, Shenyang, Peoples R China; [Wang, Xin] Shenyang Sport Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Shenyang, Peoples R China; [Chen, Long] Beihang Univ, Sch Aeronaut Sci & Engn, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Zhao, Tianyu] Northeastern Univ, Dept Mech, Shenyang, Peoples R China; [Chen, Long] Beihang Univ, Sch Aeronaut Sci & Engn, Beijing, Peoples R China								17							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001086747100001	37	Article; Article		
J	Dagaev, Dmitry; Paklina, Sofia; Reade, J. James; Singleton, Carl								The Iron Curtain and Referee Bias in International Football								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				25	1			126	151		10.1177/15270025231206470			JAN 2024	2024	Using the assignment of referees to European international association football matches played between 2002 and 2016, we ask whether judgments were biased according to the legacy of the Cold War. We find that referees from post-communist states favored teams from non-communist states, but there was no evidence of favoritism in the other direction. This out-group bias of referees born behind the Iron Curtain was statistically significant for relatively less important and more subjective decisions, namely the awarding of yellow cards for foul play. The bias was particularly large among referees from the former Soviet Union. It has also diminished over time, perhaps due to increased professionalism in European refereeing, or because memories of the Cold War era have diminished among active referees.		[Dagaev, Dmitry] New Econ Sch, Moscow, Russia; [Dagaev, Dmitry] HSE Univ, Lab Sports Studies, Moscow, Russia; [Paklina, Sofia] HSE Univ, Int Lab Intangible Driven Econ, Perm, Russia; [Reade, J. James; Singleton, Carl] Univ Reading, Dept Econom, Reading, England; [Singleton, Carl] Univ Reading, Dept Econ, Reading RG6 6EL, England; [Singleton, Carl] Univ Reading, Dept Econ, Reading RG6 6EL, England								3							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001087254400001	48	Article; Article		
J	Lundstrom, Emily A.; De Souza, Mary Jane; Koltun, Kristen J.; Strock, Nicole C. A.; Canil, Hannah N.; Williams, Nancy I.								Wearable technology metrics are associated with energy deficiency and psychological stress in elite swimmers								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	4			1578	1587		10.1177/17479541231206424			AUG 2024	2024	Energy deficiency (ED) and psychological stress affect athlete health. Given the emerging capabilities of wearable technology, the purpose of this study was to explore associations of wearable technology metrics in relation to lab-based measures of ED and psychological stress. We investigated the associations between (a) wearable-derived heart rate variability (HRV), resting heart rate (RHR), exercise strain and recovery, and (b) laboratory-derived measures of metabolism (resting metabolic rate (RMR), total triiodothyronine (TT3)) and a validated stress assessment (Recovery-Stress Questionnaire for Athletes (RESTQ)-52 items) in NCAA swimmers (n = 23, 10 male, 13 female) during heavy training. Swimmers were grouped by degree of metabolic adaption to ED using the ratio of actual-to-predicted RMR (utilizing the validated cutoff of <0.94) and by sex. Metabolically suppressed swimmers had lower HRV (81 +/- 27 ms vs.110 +/- 35 ms, p = 0.04). HRV correlated positively with RMR (kcal-kg LBM-1-day(-1); where LBM stands for lean body mass) (r = 0.45; p = 0.03). HRV was negatively correlated with sport-specific (r = -0.46; p = 0.03) and total stress (r = -0.46; p = 0.03). In males, HRV correlated negatively with general stress (r = -0.72; p = 0.02) and total stress (r = -0.74, p = 0.01) (RESTQ). Additionally, in males only, the strain was correlated positively with RESTQ recovery-stress balance (r = 0.69; p = 0.03), and negatively correlated with general stress (r = -0.81, p = 0.01), and sport stress (r = -0.89, p < 0.01). No correlations between HRV, RHR, strain or recovery, and stress variables were observed in females. Associations between wearable technology measures of HRV, RHR, strain, and recovery with validated measures of ED and psychological stress should continue to be explored with a focus on underlying mechanisms and moderating influences of biological sex.		[Lundstrom, Emily A.; De Souza, Mary Jane; Koltun, Kristen J.; Strock, Nicole C. A.; Williams, Nancy I.] Penn State Univ, Dept Kinesiol, University Pk, PA 16801 USA; [Canil, Hannah N.] Penn State Univ, Dept Nutr Sci, University Pk, PA USA; [Williams, Nancy I.] Penn State Univ, Dept Kinesiol, University Pk, PA 16801 USA								8							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001093747900001	43	Article; Article		
J	Holmberg, Patrick M.; Russell, Scott; O'Brien, Katherine A.; James, Lachlan P.; Kelly, Vincent G.								Exploring strength and conditioning practitioners' perceptions about using priming exercise as a pre-competition strategy to improve performance								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	4			1598	1611		10.1177/17479541231207951			AUG 2024	2024	The term 'priming exercise' has recently been introduced to describe exercise stimuli prescribed to enhance performance within 1-48 hours of that stimulus. Despite evidence of these activities being utilised in competitive settings, the reasoning underpinning the application of priming exercise is not yet clear. Therefore, this study aimed to explore practitioners' perceptions about using priming exercise as a pre-competition strategy to improve performance. Semi-structured interviews were conducted with 28 practitioners involved in prescribing training programs to elite Australian athletes. Reflexive thematic analysis revealed six organising themes (i.e. 'limited and inapplicable research findings', 'consideration of athletes' training age', risk-return of priming session outcomes', 'logistical concerns', 'buy-in' and 'priming exercise prescription') later grouped into a global theme, representing the 'challenges of applying priming exercise'. The findings highlight contextual factors influencing practitioners' use of priming exercise and, based on these considerations, draw attention to the apparent uncertainty about whether these stimuli can be prescribed effectively to improve competition performance in sports. In addition to gaining insight into applied priming strategies, the present findings may be used to inform externally valid and relevant study designs that subsequently guide practice.		[Holmberg, Patrick M.; Russell, Scott; O'Brien, Katherine A.; Kelly, Vincent G.] Queensland Univ ofTechnol, Sch Exercise & Nutr Sci, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [James, Lachlan P.] La Trobe Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Human Serv & Sport, Sport & Exercise Sci, Bundoora, Vic, Australia; [Kelly, Vincent G.] Univ Queensland, Sch Human Movement & Nutr Sci, St Lucia, Qld, Australia; [Holmberg, Patrick M.] Queensland Univ ofTechnol, Sch Exercise & Nutr Sci, Brisbane, Qld, Australia								13							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001090276700001	66	Article; Article		
J	Gaos, Sofia; Sanchez-Jorge, Sandra; Munoz, Alejandro; Vicente-Campos, Davinia; Acebes-Sanchez, Jorge; Esquius, Laura; Scanlan, Aaron T.; Lopez-Samanes, Alvaro								Neuromuscular but Not Technical Performance is Affected by Time-of-Day in Semiprofessional, Female Basketball Players								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				95	2			499	508		10.1080/02701367.2023.2265447			APR 2 2024	2024	Purpose: The aim of this study was to determine whether variations in technical and neuromuscular performance occur across different times of the day in basketball players. Methods: Twenty semiprofessional, female basketball players (23 +/- 4 years) competing in a second-division national basketball competition completed separate testing batteries in the morning (08:30) and in the afternoon (17:30) in a randomized counterbalanced order. Testing sessions consisted of a free-throw accuracy test to assess technical performance, as well as flexibility (ankle dorsiflexion range-of-motion test), dynamic balance (modified star excursion balance test), vertical jump height (squat jump, countermovement jump with and without arm swing), strength (isometric handgrip), change-of-direction speed (V-cut test), and linear speed (20-m sprint) tests to assess neuromuscular performance. Mechanism variables were also obtained including tympanic temperature, urinary specific gravity, and rating of perceived exertion at each session. Results: Squat jump height (6.7%; p = .001; effect size (ES) = 0.33), countermovement jump height with (4.1%; p = .018; ES = 0.27) and without arm swing (5.9%; p = .007; ES = 0.30), and 20-m sprint time (-1.4%; p = .015; ES = -0.32) were significantly superior in the afternoon compared to morning. Tympanic temperature was significantly higher in the afternoon than morning (1.4%; p < .001; ES = 1.31). In contrast, no significant differences between timepoints were evident for all remaining variables (p > .05; ES = -0.33 to 0.16). Conclusions: Some neuromuscular variables exhibited a time-of-day effect with better jump and sprint performance in the afternoon compared to morning in semiprofessional, female basketball players.		[Gaos, Sofia; Sanchez-Jorge, Sandra; Munoz, Alejandro; Vicente-Campos, Davinia; Acebes-Sanchez, Jorge] Univ Francisco Vitoria, Vitoria, Spain; [Esquius, Laura] Univ Oberta Catalunya, Catalunya, Spain; [Scanlan, Aaron T.] Cent Queensland Univ, Noosaville, Australia; [Lopez-Samanes, Alvaro] Univ Pontificia Comillas, Comillas, Spain; [Sanchez-Jorge, Sandra] Univ Francisco Vitoria, Fac Hlth Sci, Sch Physiotherapy, Exercise Physiol Grp, Carretera Pozuelo, km 1, 800, Madrid 28223, Spain; [Sanchez-Jorge, Sandra] Univ Francisco Vitoria, Fac Hlth Sci, Sch Physiotherapy, Exercise Physiol Grp, Carretera Pozuelo, km 1, 800, Madrid 28223, Spain								11							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001085732200001	43	Article; Article		
J	Glaister, Mark; Liddell, Adam; Estlea, Kate								The Reliability of a Single-Trial Measurement of Maximal Accumulated Oxygen Deficit Determined via Perceptually-Regulated Exercise								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				95	2			476	481	2265441	10.1080/02701367.2023.2265441			APR 2 2024	2024	Purpose: The aim of this study was to evaluate the reliability of a single-trial determination of maximal accumulated oxygen deficit (MAOD) achieved via the aid of perceptually-regulated incremental exercise. Methods: 14 trained male cyclists (age: 45 +/- 8 yrs; height: 1.82 +/- 0.06 m; mass: 79.7 +/- 6.7 kg; (V) over dot(2max): 4.09 +/- 0.57 L.min(-1)) performed three trials of a submaximal incremental cycling test followed by a test to exhaustion at 116% of predicted (V) over dot(2max). The intensity for each stage of the incremental test was regulated by participants to elicit perceived exertion levels of 9-15 on the Borg (6-20) scale. Linear regression was used to estimate (V) over dot(2max) at a perceived exertion level of 19. MAOD was calculated from the difference between predicted and actual oxygen demand in the test to exhaustion, reported in oxygen equivalents (O-2 eq). A separate incremental test was used to measure (V) over dot(2max) directly. Results: Correlation coefficients between perceived exertion and (V) over dot(2) across trials were strong (r >= 0.99), and there were no between-trial differences in predicted (V) over dot(2max) (4.03 +/- 1.04, 3.76 +/- 0.53, and 3.69 +/- 0.64 L.min(-1), respectively; p =.142) or MAOD (2.75 +/- 2.28, 2.50 +/- 1.53, and 2.93 +/- 1.40 L O-2 eq, respectively; p =.633). Nevertheless, the coefficients of variation for predicted (V) over dot(2max) (14.2%) and MAOD (142.8%) were poor. Conclusions: The prediction of (V) over dot(2max) from perceptually-regulated exercise displays a level of test-retest reliability which prevents its use as a means of evaluating MAOD reliably in a single-trial.		[Glaister, Mark; Liddell, Adam; Estlea, Kate] St Marys Univ, Fac Sport Allied Hlth & Performance Sci, Strawberry Hill, Twickenham TW1 4SX, England; [Glaister, Mark] St Marys Univ, Fac Sport Allied Hlth & Performance Sci, Strawberry Hill, Twickenham TW1 4SX, England								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001085889600001	29	Article; Article		
J	Kim, Sungkyung; Manoli, Argyro Elisavet; Pyun, Do Young; Kenyon, James Andrew								Government-public relationships in the context of mega sport events: conceptualisation and scale development								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				24	5			1055	1074		10.1108/IJSMS-01-2023-0007			NOV 2 2023	2023	Purpose-Enthusiasm for hosting mega sport events has been dampened mainly due to the opposition of local communities. Although the use of public relations that aims for two-way communication to build mutual understanding and the long-term relationship could be an effective tool in diminishing the opposition, little research exists that interprets the social concern with public relations theoretical lens. In this light, the primary purpose of the present study was to conceptualise government-public relationships in the context of mega sport events and to develop a valid and psychometrically sound scale to measure the relationship quality between two entities.Design/methodology/approach-An initial pool of 23 potential government-public relationship items was drawn through item generation processes, including research synthesis and content validity. Then, this study collected 254 respondents via online surveys and split the total sample into two sets for exploratory factor analysis and (n = 127) and confirmatory factor analysis (n = 127).Findings-As a result, the scale of the government-public relationships consists of 17 items representing three dimensions: control mutuality, trust and satisfaction.Originality/value-The developed government-public relationship scale furnishes event marketers and researchers with a solid framework and a measurement tool for empirical examinations. The current research reveals that the dimensionality, reliability and validity of the three latent government-public relationships dimensions are satisfactory while failing to meet the general consensus that commitment is an important dimension of the existing organisation-public relationships scale.		[Kim, Sungkyung; Manoli, Argyro Elisavet; Pyun, Do Young; Kenyon, James Andrew] Loughborough Univ, Sch Sport Exercise & Hlth Sci, Dept Sport Management, Loughborough, England; [Kim, Sungkyung] Univ Stirling, Fac Hlth Sci & Sport, Dept Sport Management, Stirling, Scotland; [Manoli, Argyro Elisavet] Univ Bergamo, Mkt & Management, Bergamo, Italy; [Kim, Sungkyung] Loughborough Univ, Sch Sport Exercise & Hlth Sci, Dept Sport Management, Loughborough, England; [Kim, Sungkyung] Univ Stirling, Fac Hlth Sci & Sport, Dept Sport Management, Stirling, Scotland								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001087067000001	57	Article; Article		
J	Munoz-Garcia, Daniel; Serrano, J. Ignacio; Ferrer-Pena, Raul; d'Eudeville, Victor; Brero, Marta; Boisson, Maxime; del Castillo, M. Dolores								Visually-Induced Motor Imagery Effects on Motor Adaptation to Reverse Steering Cycling. A Randomized Controlled Trial								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				95	2			458	465		10.1080/02701367.2023.2252479			APR 2 2024	2024	Purpose: First, testing an intervention of neuromodulation based on motor imagery and action observation as a promoter of motor adaptation of a complex motor task involving balance. Second, determining what prior balance factors can affect the motor adaptation task. Methods: A double-blind randomized controlled trial was performed. Forty-eight healthy subjects were recruited. The balance of all participants during gait and standing was assessed before adapting to the complex, multi-limb motor task of riding an inverse steering bicycle (ISB). Two interventions were carried out interleaved among trials of adaptation to the motor task: the experimental group (n = 24) was asked to perform neuromodulation (EN) by watching first-person ISB riding through immersive VR glasses and, simultaneously, mentally mimicking the movements. The control group (CG) was asked to watch a slideshow video of steady landscape images. Results: The results showed that the EN group did not improve the motor adaptation rate and induced higher adaptation times with respect to the CG. However, while the motor adaptation success showed a significant dependence on the prior proprioceptive participation in balance in the CG, the EN group did not present any relationship between the prior balance profile and motor adaptation outcome. Conclusions: Results point to a benefit of the visually guided neuromodulation for the motor adaptation of the subjects with low participation of proprioception in balance. Moreover, the results from the control group would allow to disclose prognostic factors about the success of the motor adaptation, and also prescription criteria for the proposed neuromodulation based on the balance profile.		[Munoz-Garcia, Daniel; Ferrer-Pena, Raul; d'Eudeville, Victor; Brero, Marta; Boisson, Maxime] Univ Autonoma Madrid, Madrid, Spain; [Serrano, J. Ignacio; del Castillo, M. Dolores] UPM, Ctr Automatica & Robot CAR CSIC, Madrid, Spain; [Serrano, J. Ignacio] UPM, Ctr Automatica & Robot CAR CSIC, Neural & Cognit Engn Grp GNeC, Campo Real Km 0-200,Arganda Rey, Madrid 28500, Spain; [Serrano, J. Ignacio] UPM, Ctr Automatica & Robot CAR CSIC, Neural & Cognit Engn Grp GNeC, Campo Real Km 0-200,Arganda Rey, Madrid 28500, Spain								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001080299500001	39	Article; Article		
J	Hebert-Losier, Kim; Ngawhika, Te Manawa; Balsalobre-Fernandez, Carlos; O'Neill, Seth								Calf muscle abilities are related to sprint performance in male Rugby Union players								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				64				117	122		10.1016/j.ptsp.2023.09.001			NOV 2023	2023	Objectives: To examine the strength of the relationship between plantarflexor power and strength-endurance metrics and 10-m sprint times in male Rugby Union players. A secondary aim was to examine the strength of the relationship within calf muscle metrics. Design: Observational cross-sectional correlational.Setting: Field-based.Participants: Sixteen male Rugby Union players in the National Provincial Championship.Main outcome measures: Participants completed three single-leg calf muscle tests: bodyweight power, weighted power, and strength-endurance. Data were recorded using the Calf Raise application. Three-to-four days later, average and best 10-m sprint performances were collected using timing lights.Results: There were large significant correlations between 10-m sprint performances (average and best times) and calf muscle power (weighted) and strength-endurance (total displacement and work) metrics (r = -0.503 to -0.628). There were large significant correlations between bodyweight and weighted power, weighted power and strength-endurance (total displacement and work), and most strength-endurance metrics (r = 0.520 to 0.943).Conclusions: Our findings emphasise the importance of triceps surae muscle power and strength-endurance for maximal-effort accelerations and sprint performances in Rugby Union. Our data indicate that weighted power and total work from strength-endurance tests are the most useful metrics for further investigation in the context of short sprints and acceleration.		[Hebert-Losier, Kim; Ngawhika, Te Manawa] Univ Waikato, Te Huataki Waiora Sch Hlth, Div Hlth Engn Comp & Sci, Hamilton, New Zealand; [Ngawhika, Te Manawa] Bay Plenty Rugby Union, Mt Maunganui, New Zealand; [Balsalobre-Fernandez, Carlos] Univ Autonoma Madrid, Appl Biomech & Sport Technol Res Grp, Madrid, Spain; [O'Neill, Seth] Univ Leicester, Leicester, England; [Hebert-Losier, Kim] Univ Waikato, Te Huataki Waiora Sch Hlth, Div Hlth Engn Comp & Sci, Hamilton, New Zealand								12							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001097307000001	33	Article; Article		
J	Tabata, Shogo; Tsukahara, Yuka; Kamada, Hiroshi; Manabe, Tomohiro; Yamasawa, Fumihiro								Prevalence of anemia and iron deficiency and its association with body mass index in elite Japanese high school long-distance runners								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				52	4			360	368		10.1080/00913847.2023.2267561			JUL 3 2024	2024	Objectives: Anemia is a common condition in long-distance runners (LDRs). Recently, not only iron deficiency (ID) but also energy deficiency has been considered as a risk factor for anemia in athletes but no evidence has yet been established. The aim of this study was to investigate the prevalence of anemia and ID and the influence of body mass index (BMI) on anemia in high-school LDRs.Methods: The participants were 406 male and 235 female elite Japanese LDRs who competed in the All-Japan High-School Ekiden Championship 2019. They submitted their anthropometric data and results of a blood test within five days after the competition. The prevalence of anemia and ID and the influence of BMI on anemia were assessed retrospectively.Results: Mean hemoglobin concentrations (Hb) were 14.8 +/- 0.9 g/dl in males and 13.2 +/- 0.9 g/dl in females. The prevalence of anemia (Hb < 14 g/dl in males and < 12 g/dl in females) was significantly higher in males (16.3%) than females (6.4%), but males also showed higher prevalence of non-iron deficiency anemia (NIDA) than females (11.6% and 3.0%, respectively). No significant gender difference was found in the prevalence of iron deficiency anemia (IDA) (4.7% in males and 3.4% in females). ID (serum ferritin level < 25 ng/ml) was significantly more prevalent in females (37.4%) than males (18.5%). A binary logistic regression analysis revealed that low BMI was a contributor to anemia in females (odds ratios: 0.577 (95% CI: 0.369-0.901), p = 0.012).Conclusion: In Japanese high-school LDRs, one in six males was anemic, but most males did not have ID. Conversely, one-third of females were diagnosed with ID. Lower BMI was identified as a risk for anemia in females, suggesting that leanness may also lead to anemia in females.		[Tabata, Shogo] Tabata Clin, Saitama, Japan; [Tabata, Shogo; Tsukahara, Yuka; Kamada, Hiroshi; Manabe, Tomohiro; Yamasawa, Fumihiro] Japan Assoc Athlet Federat JAAF, Med Comm, Tokyo, Japan; [Tsukahara, Yuka] Tokyo Womens Coll Phys Educ, Dept Sports Med, Kunitachi, Tokyo, Japan; [Kamada, Hiroshi] Univ Tsukuba, Fac Med, Dept Orthoped Surg, Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan; [Manabe, Tomohiro] Keio Univ, eSports Med Res Ctr, Yokohama, Kanagawa, Japan; [Tabata, Shogo] Tabata Clin, Higashi Omiya 5-46-5, Minuma, Saitama, Japan; [Tabata, Shogo] Tabata Clin, Higashi Omiya 5-46-5, Minuma, Saitama, Japan								3							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001089174400001	68	Article; Article		
J	Mondt, Ali B.; Lee, Yohan; Shapiro, Stephen L.; Morse, Alan								Consumer perceptions of a secondary ticket market: the case of StubHub and major league baseball								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				24	5			1039	1054		10.1108/IJSMS-05-2023-0100			NOV 2 2023	2023	PurposeThis study aims to examine how the partnership between StubHub and MLB affected consumers' perceptions of StubHub. The case of StubHub and MLB was selected based on their partnership history and the reputation of StubHub.Design/methodology/approachA Qualtrics survey panel was used to collect the survey data. Structural equation modeling was used to analyze the relationships between sponsor congruence, brand equity and purchase intention.FindingsSponsor congruence plays a significant role in consumers' perceived quality of StubHub. Additionally, brand equity significantly influenced purchase intention. More specifically, brand loyalty was the strongest indicator of intent to purchase tickets from StubHub. Brand loyalty and perceived quality indirectly affected the relationship between sponsor congruence and consumers' purchase intentions of StubHub.Originality/valueSponsor congruence between secondary ticket markets and sport leagues can provide a competitive advantage, helping create revenue generation and leverage for partnerships. Perceived quality can help facilitate this relationship and increase revenue generation.		[Mondt, Ali B.] Idaho State Univ, Pocatello, ID 83209 USA; [Lee, Yohan] Defiance Coll, Defiance, OH USA; [Shapiro, Stephen L.] Univ South Carolina, Dept Sport & Entertainment Management, Columbia, SC USA; [Morse, Alan] Univ Northern Colorado, Dept Kinesiol Nutr & Dietet, Greeley, CO USA; [Mondt, Ali B.] Idaho State Univ, Pocatello, ID 83209 USA								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001077997000001	77	Article; Article		
J	Tooth, Camille; Schwartz, Cedric; Croisier, Jean-Louis; Gofflota, Amandine; Bornheim, Stephen; Forthomme, Benedicte								Prevention of shoulder injuries in volleyball players: The usefulness and efficiency of a warm-up routine								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				64				97	103		10.1016/j.ptsp.2023.09.006			NOV 2023	2023	Objectives: The objective of this study was to assess the efficiency of a warm-up routine focused on shoulder injury prevention in volleyball players. Design: Prospective study. Setting: University. Participants: Eight recreational volleyball teams (44 males, 49 females) were included in the study and assigned to two different groups (prevention or control) in a blinded way. In the prevention group, the players had to perform specific exercises at the beginning of each training session twice a week. Main outcome measures: Injuries were recorded monthly in both groups with an online questionnaire. Results: A significant decrease in the total number of injuries as well as in the severity of the injuries was observed in the prevention group in comparison to the control group (p = 0.0001-0.013). For the shoulder, a decrease in injury incidence was also observed in the prevention group. This decrease reached significance in male players (p = 0.045). Conclusions: The program appears to be efficient to reduce the risk of shoulder injuries in recreational volleyball players. Adjustments in the duration and in the contents of the program will have to be made to further improve compliance and better meet the requirements of both players and trainers.		[Tooth, Camille; Schwartz, Cedric; Croisier, Jean-Louis; Gofflota, Amandine; Forthomme, Benedicte] Univ Liege, Lab Human Mot Anal, Liege, Belgium; [Tooth, Camille; Croisier, Jean-Louis; Gofflota, Amandine; Bornheim, Stephen; Forthomme, Benedicte] Univ Liege, Dept Phys Med & Rehabil, Liege, Belgium; [Tooth, Camille] Allee Sports 1, B-4000 Liege, Belgium; [Tooth, Camille] Allee Sports 1, B-4000 Liege, Belgium								4							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001091701100001	44	Article; Article		
J	van der Vegt, Braedan; Gepp, Adrian; Keogh, Justin; Farley, Jessica B.								An investigation of data-driven player positional roles within the Australian Football League Women's competition using technical skill match-play data								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	3			1130	1142		10.1177/17479541231203895			JUN 2024	2024	Understanding player positional roles are important for match-play tactics, player recruitment, talent identification, and development by providing a greater understanding of what each positional role constitutes. Currently, no analysis of competition technical skill data exists by player position in the Australian Football League Women's (AFLW) competition. The primary aim of the research was to use data-driven techniques to observe what positions and roles characterise AFLW match-play using detailed technical skill action data of players. A secondary aim was to comment on the application of clustering methods to achieve more interpretable, reflective positional clustering. A two-stage, unsupervised clustering approach was applied to meet these aims. Data cleaning resulted in 165 variables across 1296 player seasons in the 2019-2022 AFLW seasons which was used for clustering. First-stage clustering found four positions following a common convention (forwards, midfielders, defenders, and rucks). Second-stage clustering found roles within positions, resulting in a further 13 clusters with three forwards, three midfielders, four defenders, and three ruck positional roles. Key variables across all positions and roles included the field location of actions, number of contested possessions, clearances, interceptions, hitouts, inside 50s, and rebound 50s. Unsupervised clustering allowed the discovery of new roles rather than being constrained to pre-defined existing classifications of previous literature. This research assists coaches and practitioners by identifying key game actions players need to perform in match-play by position, which can assist in player recruitment, player development, and identifying appropriate match-play styles and tactics, while also defining new roles and suggestions of how to best use available data.		[van der Vegt, Braedan; Gepp, Adrian] Bond Univ, Ctr Data Analyt, Bond Business Sch, Gold Coast, Qld, Australia; [Gepp, Adrian] Bangor Univ, Bangor Business Sch, Bangor, Wales; [Keogh, Justin; Farley, Jessica B.] Bond Univ, Fac Hlth Sci & Med, Gold Coast, Qld, Australia; [Keogh, Justin] Auckland Univ Technol, Sports Performance Res Ctr New Zealand, Auckland, New Zealand; [Keogh, Justin] Manipal Acad Higher Educ, Kasturba Med Coll, Manipal, KA, India; [van der Vegt, Braedan] Bond Univ, Ctr Data Analyt, Bond Business Sch, 14 Univ Dr, Gold Coast, Qld 4226, Australia; [van der Vegt, Braedan] Bond Univ, Ctr Data Analyt, Bond Business Sch, 14 Univ Dr, Gold Coast, Qld 4226, Australia								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001080038200001	27	Article; Article		
J	Bleakley, C. M.; Wagemansb, J.; Schurzc, A. P.; Smoligae, J. M.								How robust are clinical trials in primary and secondary ankle sprain prevention?								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				64				85	90		10.1016/j.ptsp.2023.08.005			NOV 2023	2023	Objectives: Determine the statistical stability of RCTs examining primary and secondary prevention of ankle sprains.Methods: Databases were searched to August 2023. We included parallel design RCTs, using conservative interventions for preventing ankle sprain, reporting dichotomous injury event outcomes. Statistical stability was quantified using Fragility Index (FI) and Fragility Quotient (FQ). Subgroup analyses were undertaken to test if FI varied based on by study objective, original approach to analysis (frequency vs time to event), follow-up duration, and pre-registration.Results: 3559 studies were screened with 45 RCTs included. The median number of events required to change the statistical significance (FI) was 4 (IQR 1-6). FI was similar regardless of study objective, original analysis, followup duration, and pre-registration status. Median (IQR) FQ was 0.015 (0.005-0.046), therefore reversing events <2 patients/100 would alter significance. In 80% of studies the number of patients lost to follow-up was greater than the FI.Conclusion: RCTs informing primary and secondary prevention of ankle sprain are fragile. Only a small percentage of outcome event reversals would reverse study significance, and this is often exceeded by the number of drop outs. Robust reporting of dichotomous outcomes requires the use P values and key metrics such as FI or FQ.		[Bleakley, C. M.] Ulster Univ, Fac Life & Hlth Sci, Belfast, North Ireland; [Wagemansb, J.] Univ Antwerp, Fac Med & Hlth Sci, Antwerp, Belgium; [Schurzc, A. P.] Bern Univ Appl Sci, Dept Hlth Profess, Bern, Switzerland; [Schurzc, A. P.] Vrije Univ Brussel, Fac Phys Educ & Physiotherapy, Brussels, Belgium; [Smoligae, J. M.] High Point Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, High Point, NC USA; [Smoligae, J. M.] Tufts Univ, Sch Med, Medford, MA USA; [Bleakley, C. M.] Ulster Univ, Fac Life & Hlth Sci, Belfast, North Ireland								1							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001092036500001	46	Article; Article		
J	Bishop, Chris; Jordan, Matt; Torres-Ronda, Lorena; Loturco, Irineu; Harry, John; Virgile, Adam; Mundy, Peter; Turner, Anthony; Comfort, Paul								Selecting Metrics That Matter: Comparing the Use of the Countermovement Jump for Performance Profiling, Neuromuscular Fatigue Monitoring, and Injury Rehabilitation Testing								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				45	5			545	553		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000772			OCT 2023	2023	The countermovement jump (CMJ) is one of the most used performance assessments in strength and conditioning. Although numerous studies discuss the usability of different metrics in this test, this is often performed within the context of a specific aim. However, to our knowledge, no information currently exists providing practitioners with some over-arching recommendations on which metrics to choose when the purpose of using the test differs. This article discusses how the metrics selected to monitor during CMJ testing may differ when aiming to use it as a proxy for athletic performance, as part of neuromuscular fatigue monitoring, or as part of a test battery for return to performance in injured athletes.		[Bishop, Chris; Turner, Anthony] Middlesex Univ, London Sport Inst, London, England; [Jordan, Matt] Univ Calgary, Fac Kinesiol, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Torres-Ronda, Lorena] Spanish Basketball Federat, Madrid, Spain; [Loturco, Irineu] Nucleus High Performance, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Harry, John] Texas Tech Univ, Dept Kinesiol & Sport Management, Lubbock, TX USA; [Virgile, Adam] Los Angeles Clippers Basketball, Los Angeles, CA USA; [Mundy, Peter] Hawkins Dynam, Portland, ME USA; [Comfort, Paul] Univ Salford, Directorate Psychol & Sport, Manchester, England; [Bishop, Chris] Middlesex Univ, London Sport Inst, London, England								151							Sport Sciences	WOS:001080063200003	64	Article; Article		
J	Hopkins, Chris; Graham, Bethany; Donnelly, Beth; Robertson, Abigail; Strange, Jonna								Adolescent track and field injuries presenting to US emergency departments								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				52	4			349	354		10.1080/00913847.2023.2263195			JUL 3 2024	2024	Objectives: Track and field (T & F) is a highly popular sport for adolescents. The diversity of running, jumping, and throwing events within the sport can result in unique injury patterns for adolescent track and field participants. The purpose of this study was to estimate injury risk in adolescent T & F and describe the types of injuries resulting in ED visits, classified by T & F events.Methods: Emergency department (ED) data from the National Electronic Injury Surveillance System were obtained for a 20-year period from 2000 through 2019. Cases involving 14- to 18-year-olds participating in T & F were classified by sex, case severity, involved body region, and the T & F event patients were engaged in at the time of their injury. National estimates and Injury rates were calculated using national high school T & F participation data. Longitudinal trends in ED visits were measured using linear regression. Rate ratios (RRs) were used to compare the risk and severity of ED visits by sex.Results: 8,060 track and field related ED encounters were observed, representing an estimated 272,227 encounters nationally over the 20-year study period. The rate of ED encounters increased significantly over the study period (p < 0.001). Adolescent females exhibited a higher rate of ED encounters (RR: 1.23, 95% CI: 1.22-1.24), but a lower rate of hospital admissions (RR: 0.68, 95% CI: 0.64-0.73) compared to males. The lower extremity was the most commonly injured body region for most T & F events, but this differed for sprinting, high jumping, shot put, and javelin events. Most T & F events resulted in unique injury patterns characteristic of their athletic demands.Conclusions: There was an increasing trend of ED visits from adolescent T & F participants throughout the 20-year study period with different injury patterns observed by sex and T & F event discipline.		[Hopkins, Chris; Graham, Bethany; Donnelly, Beth; Robertson, Abigail; Strange, Jonna] Furman Univ, Dept Hlth Sci, Greenville, SC 29615 USA; [Hopkins, Chris] Furman Univ, Dept Hlth Sci, Greenville, SC 29615 USA								6							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001074098300001	22	Article; Article		
J	Liu, Shuangen; Yan, Hui; Wang, Zhikang; Zhang, Yifang; Johnson, Rachel S.; Wei, Shutao; Pan, Jiahao								Effects of shoe collar types on ankle and knee biomechanics characteristics when performing the side-step cutting task								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	5			1345	1361		10.1080/14763141.2023.2249860			MAY 4 2025	2025	This study aimed to examine the effect of football shoes with different collar types on ankle and knee kinematic and kinetics features during 45 & DEG; and 135 & DEG; side-step cutting tasks. Fifteen healthy college football players volunteered for the study. Each participant was instructed to perform side-step cutting tasks with high, low, and no collar football shoes. The kinematic and ground reaction force data were measured using a Vicon motion capture system and a Kistler force plate, respectively. Two-way MANOVAs with repeated measures were used to examine the effect of shoe collar type and task conditions. There were no interaction effects. The high collar football shoe showed decreased ankle range of motion in the sagittal plane (p = 0.010) and peak ankle external rotation moment (p = 0.009) compared to the no collar football shoe. The high (p = 0.025) and low (p = 0.029) collar football shoes presented greater peak ankle external rotation angles than the no collar football shoe. These results imply that football shoes with high collars made of high intensity knitted fabric could be used to restrict ankle joint movement, with potential implications for decreasing the risk of ankle sprain injuries in football players.		[Liu, Shuangen; Yan, Hui] Jinzhong Univ, Coll Phys Educ, Jinzhong, Peoples R China; [Wang, Zhikang; Zhang, Yifang; Wei, Shutao] 316 CHINA CO LTD, Ctr Res & Innovat, Xiamen, Peoples R China; [Johnson, Rachel S.; Pan, Jiahao] Boise State Univ, Ctr Orthopaed & Biomech Res, Boise, ID 83725 USA; [Pan, Jiahao] Boise State Univ, Ctr Orthopaed & Biomech Res, Boise, ID 83725 USA								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001069974000001	50	Article; Article		
J	Gonzalez-de-la-Flor, Angel; Garcia-Perez-de-Sevilla, Guillermo; Dominguez-Balmaseda, Diego; del-Blanco-Muniz, Jose Angel								Validity and reliability of a new hip flexor muscles flexibility assessment tool: The reactive hip flexor (RHF) test								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				64				41	47		10.1016/j.ptsp.2023.09.002			NOV 2023	2023	Background: The modified Thomas test is the most used and most reliable test to assess the hip flexors' flexibility. However it does not evaluate the interaction of both legs. The objective of this study is to propose a new assessment tool for hip flexor flexibility, the Reactive Hip Flexion (RHF) Test. Methods: An observational, intra-test, and test-retest study with repeated measures was carried out with the aim of assessing the validity and reliability of the RHF Test. The participants were males and females aged between 18 and 35 years old who had a training schedule of at least 2 days a week, without a musculoskeletal lower limb or lumbopelvic pathology. The reliability of the test was examined using the intraclass correlation coefficients (ICCs) by a two-way random model to establish inter-rater reliability and a two-way mixed model to assess intrarater reliability. The precision was measured by the standard error of measurement (SEM). In addition, the minimum detectable change (MDC95%) was calculated. Results: Twenty-six participants (52 hips) (47% female) completed the study. No correlations were observed between anthropometric variables and RHF peak force or active knee extension (AKE) measurements. There was an excellent intra-rater and inter-rater ICC in the hip flexors' reactive peak force and the AKE measurements, with a low SEM. Conclusions: This study demonstrated that the proposed RHF test technique is valid and reliable when used in healthy youth population.		[Gonzalez-de-la-Flor, Angel; Garcia-Perez-de-Sevilla, Guillermo; Dominguez-Balmaseda, Diego; del-Blanco-Muniz, Jose Angel] Univ Europea Madrid, Fac Sport Sci, Madrid 28670, Spain; [Dominguez-Balmaseda, Diego] Univ Europea Madrid, Fac Hlth Sci, Masmicrobiota Grp, Madrid, Spain; [Garcia-Perez-de-Sevilla, Guillermo] Univ Europea Madrid, Fac Sport Sci, Madrid 28670, Spain								3							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001081246600001	30	Article; Article		
J	Singh, Vincent R.; Stokes, Keith; Mckay, Carly D.								Feasibility and acceptability of a new shoulder-specific warm-up programme to prevent injuries in community youth rugby union as compared to the FIFA 11+								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	3			1093	1104		10.1177/17479541231192170			JUN 2024	2024	Injury prevention exercise programmes (IPEPs) are efficacious, though there is no IPEP specifically designed to reduce shoulder injuries in rugby. This study aimed to determine the feasibility and acceptability of the Rugby Active Shoulder Injury Prevention (RASIP) programme. Three community rugby union clubs participated in a 12-week pilot study (players, n = 51; coaches, n = 7). Two teams were randomly allocated to the RASIP programme and one to the FIFA 11+ (IPEP) intervention. Feasibility was examined by players' adherence to the IPEP, and acceptability was described by players' and coaches' perceptions of the IPEP. On average, more players were exposed to 11+ training sessions (100%) than the RASIP programme (19 out of 36 players, 53%). Higher percentage of exercises was completed over the season in the 11+ (97%) than the RASIP programme (58%). Across both groups, there were different approaches followed in delivering the allocated intervention. The coach-led, prescriptively followed 11+ IPEP was better at achieving higher adherence with exercises. Coaches were concerned of not having enough time in their sessions to include the IPEP. This pilot study has shown that the intervention is feasible to deliver and is acceptable with improvements recommended by community stakeholders, coaches and players in a community youth rugby setting.		[Singh, Vincent R.] Univ West England, Sch Hlth & Social Wellbeing, Bristol, England; [Stokes, Keith; Mckay, Carly D.] Univ Bath, Ctr Hlth & Injury & Illness Prevent Sport Chi2PS, Dept Hlth, Bath, England; [Stokes, Keith] Rugby Football Union, London, England; [Singh, Vincent R.] Univ West England, Sch Hlth & Social Wellbeing, Bristol, England								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001069115700001	50	Article; Article		
J	Macdougall, Keenan B.; McClean, Zachary J.; MacIntosh, Brian R.; Fletcher, Jared R.; Aboodarda, Saied J.								Validity of the Entralpi force plate in the assessment of finger flexor performance metrics in rock climbers								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	12			3246	3256		10.1080/14763141.2023.2259356			DEC 1 2024	2024	This study assessed the validity of the Entralpi force plate in the assessment of finger flexor performance in rock climbers. In addition to a static force evaluation, peak force, peak impulse, and total impulse were measured during 30 all-out performance trials by 15 participants, in which force during the trials was recorded simultaneously by the Entralpi and a Pasco force plate. Agreement between devices was assessed by a variety of statistical analyses, including intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC), coefficient of variation (CV), and Bland-Altman analyses. The static force evaluation showed a mean relative error of 0.41% and excellent day-to-day reliability (ICC = 1; CV = 0.03%). Peak force, peak impulse, and total impulse from the performance trials demonstrated strong agreement (ICC & GE; 0.991, CV & LE; 1.9%, Bland-Altman mean bias & LE; 0.5%). These results illustrate that the Entralpi force plate provides accurate and reliable data for rock climbing related tasks at an affordable cost.		[Macdougall, Keenan B.; McClean, Zachary J.; MacIntosh, Brian R.; Aboodarda, Saied J.] Univ Calgary, Fac Kinesiol, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Fletcher, Jared R.] Mt Royal Univ, Dept Hlth & Phys Educ, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Aboodarda, Saied J.] Univ Calgary, Fac Kinesiol, Calgary, AB, Canada								3							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001067390100001	20	Article; Article		
J	Asin-Izquierdo, Ivan; Chena, Marcos; de Dios-Alvarez, Vicente; Galiano, Carlos								Relationship between relative age measured through decimal age, physical variables and anthropometry in elite youth soccer players								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				52	4			343	348		10.1080/00913847.2023.2258768			JUL 3 2024	2024	IntroductionAge differences between athletes born in the same year, as well as an over-representation of older players, are known as the Relative Age Effect (RAE). Players born at the beginning of the selection year have a physical and anthropometric advantage over their younger peers. Experts keep looking for new prediction variables for talent identification.ObjectivesThe aim of the study is to correlate anthropometric, strength and power variables with the relative age (RA) and the level of the teams in which players played in each age category.MethodsAll players (N = 366) from an elite soccer academy of a Spanish club volunteered to participate in the study (U23-U10).ResultsThere was a significant correlation between the RA of the players and the level of the team in which they played in each age category but no correlation between trimester of birth and level of the team. We found significant correlations between the players' physical capacities, anthropometry, RA and the level of the team in which they played for the same age category, mainly from U16 to U10. U23 did not show any correlation between RA and physical or anthropometric variables.ConclusionCoaches should be cautious of choosing players based only on anthropometric or physical attributes.		[Asin-Izquierdo, Ivan; Chena, Marcos] Univ Alcala, Fac Med & Hlth Sci, Dept Biomed Sci, Ctra Madrid Barcelona, Km 33 600, Alcala De Henares 28871, Madrid, Spain; [Asin-Izquierdo, Ivan; Galiano, Carlos] Pablo Olavide Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Phys Performance & Sports Res Ctr, Dept Sports & Comp Sci, Seville, Spain; [Asin-Izquierdo, Ivan] Univ Zaragoza, Fac Social & Human Sci, Dept Mus Plast & Corporal Express, Teruel, Spain; [de Dios-Alvarez, Vicente] Univ Vigo, Fac Educ & Sports Sci, Pontevedra, Spain; [Asin-Izquierdo, Ivan] Univ Alcala, Fac Med & Hlth Sci, Dept Biomed Sci, Ctra Madrid Barcelona, Km 33 600, Alcala De Henares 28871, Madrid, Spain; [Asin-Izquierdo, Ivan] Univ Zaragoza, Fac Social & Human Sci, Dept Mus Plast & Corporal Express, Teruel, Spain								1							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001068087700001	33	Article; Article		
J	Jo, Hyeon-Deok; Kim, Maeng-Kyu								Identification of EIMD Level Differences Between Long- and Short Head of Biceps Brachii Using Echo Intensity and GLCM Texture Features								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				95	2			441	449		10.1080/02701367.2023.2250832			APR 2 2024	2024	Purpose: This study aimed to compare the time-course changes of exercise-induced muscle damage (EIMD) levels in the long head of biceps brachii (LHB) and short head of the biceps brachii (SHB) using echo intensity (EI) and to determine the efficiency of the gray level co-occurrence matrix (GLCM) texture parameters. Methods: The participants performed 30 maximal eccentric contractions of the elbow flexor. Along with muscle damage indicators, including circumference, range of motion, muscle soreness, and maximal voluntary isometric contraction (MVIC), the EI and GLCM texture features of the LHB and SHB was also assessed using B-mode ultrasonography. All measurements were assessed pre- and immediately post-exercise and after 24, 48, 72, and 96 h. Results: The muscle damage indicators indicated significant changes after the eccentric contractions (p < 0.01 for circumference, range of motion, muscle soreness, and MVIC). The EI of LHB significantly increased following the contractions (p < 0.01), but that of SHB did not (p > 0.05). In contrast, for the GLCM texture parameters, there were significant changes in the SHB (p < 0.01 for homogeneity, energy, and entropy). Conclusion: Thus, this study demonstrated that EIMD severity is different between LHB and SHB even within the same muscle. In the GLCM features, the time course of SHB after eccentric contraction revealed different patterns compared with those of LHB. Therefore, even if there are no changes in EI within a target muscle following muscle contractions, new information on muscle quality can be obtained through GLCM analysis.		[Jo, Hyeon-Deok; Kim, Maeng-Kyu] Kyungpook Natl Univ, Daegu, South Korea; [Kim, Maeng-Kyu] Kyungpook Natl Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Sports Med Lab, 80 Daehak Ro, Daegu 41566, South Korea; [Kim, Maeng-Kyu] Kyungpook Natl Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Sports Med Lab, 80 Daehak Ro, Daegu 41566, South Korea								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001093011600001	37	Article; Article		
J	Koshino, Yuta; Watanabe, Kentaro; Akimoto, Moeko; Ishida, Tomoya; Samukawa, Mina; Kasahara, Satoshi; Tohyama, Harukazu								Factors associated with persistent pain in college athletes with a history of lateral ankle sprain								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				64				27	31		10.1016/j.ptsp.2023.08.007			NOV 2023	2023	Objectives: To determine the factors associated with and prevalence of persistent pain in college athletes with chronic ankle instability (CAI) and with previous lateral ankle sprain (LAS) without CAI. Design: Cross-Sectional Study.Setting: Online survey at one university.Participants: Of the 385 respondents surveyed online, 140 were identified as having experienced at least one LAS (CAI group: 69, coper group: 24, LAS group not classified as either: 47).Main outcome measures: Factors associated with the presence of pain during activities of daily living (ADL) and sports were identified using multivariate logistic regression analyses. Independent variables were demographics, injury characteristics, the Identification of Functional Ankle Instability (IdFAI) score, the Foot and Ankle Ability Measure Sports (FAAM-Sports) and ADL subscales, and the Tampa Scale for Kinesiophobia-11 score.Results: The prevalence of pain during ADL and sports in the three groups was 16.7%-42.0% and 33.3%-56.5%, respectively. FAAM-Sports and IdFAI score were significantly associated with pain during ADL and sports in the CAI group (odd ratio: 0.923 and 1.145), respectively. No significant pain-related factors were found in the coper and LAS groups.Conclusions: Lower self-reported function and greater perceived ankle instability may be important factors in pain management in athletes with CAI.		[Koshino, Yuta; Watanabe, Kentaro; Akimoto, Moeko; Ishida, Tomoya; Samukawa, Mina; Kasahara, Satoshi; Tohyama, Harukazu] Hokkaido Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, West 5,North 12,Kita Ku, Sapporo 0600812, Japan; [Koshino, Yuta] Hokkaido Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, West 5,North 12,Kita Ku, Sapporo 0600812, Japan								3							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001074555100001	28	Article; Article		
J	Ramsay, Emma; Alizadeh, Shahab; Summers, David; Hodder, Alexandra; Behm, David G.								The Effect of a Mental Task Versus Unilateral Physical Fatigue on Non-Local Muscle Fatigue in Recreationally Active Young Adults								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				22	3			549	558		10.52082/jssm.2023.549			SEP 2023	2023	Non-local muscle fatigue (NLMF) has been attributed to both physical and mental fatigue. The purpose of this study was to investigate the effects of mental exertion versus unilateral physical fatigue on NLMF. Sixteen recreationally active participants completed a physical task (2-sets of 100-s unilateral knee extension (KE) maximal voluntary isometric contractions (MVIC) with the dominant leg with 40-s recovery between sets, mental task (4 -minute Stroop task), and control condition. Before and after each condition, blood lactate was collected, and contralateral 5-s KE, flexion (KF) and bilateral lateral trunk flexors MVIC (measure of trunk stability strength) was performed. Following the post-test 5-s MVICs, participants performed 12 non-dominant KE MVICs with a work-to-rest ratio of 5/10-s. Electromyography was monitored during the MVICs. Neither the 4-minute Stroop test or the unilateral KE physical fatigue intervention adversely affected the non-dominant KE forces or EMG activity with a single MVIC or 12 repetition MVICs. Although the non-dominant KF fatigue index forces and hamstrings EMG were not impaired by the interventions, there was a significant interaction (p = 0.001) small magnitude (d = 0.42) decrease in the non-dominant KF single MVIC force following the contralateral fatigue intervention, albeit with no significant change in hamstrings EMG. This MVIC deficit may be related to the significant decrease in dominant (p = 0.046, d = 2.6) and non-dominant external obliques (p = 0.048, d = 0.57) activation adversely affecting trunk stability. In conclusion, a 4-minute Stroop test or unilateral KE physical fatigue intervention did not impair non-dominant KE single or repeated 12 repetition MVIC forces or EMG activity. The small magnitude deficit in the non-dominant KF single MVIC force following the contralateral fatigue intervention are in accord with the heterogenous findings common in the literature.		[Ramsay, Emma; Alizadeh, Shahab; Summers, David; Hodder, Alexandra; Behm, David G.] Mem Univ Newfoundland, Sch Human Kinet & Recreat, St John, NF, Canada; [Alizadeh, Shahab] Univ Calgary, Dept Kinesiol, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Behm, David G.] Mem Univ Newfoundland, Sch Human Kinet & Recreat, St John, NF, Canada								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:001061682600001	75	Article; Article		
J	Lin, Zi-Jun; Wang, Hsin-Huan; Chen, Chia-Hsiang								The Effect of Bicycle Saddle Widths on Saddle Pressure in Female Cyclists								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				22	3			425	430		10.52082/jssm.2023.425			SEP 2023	2023	Choosing an unsuitable bicycle saddle increases the saddle pressure and discomfort during cycling. Women contract sports injuries more easily than men during cycling owing to their anatomy. To investigate the effect of saddle widths on the saddle pressure in female cyclists. Ten healthy women with an average age of 20.7 +/- 1.3 years, height of 162 +/- and 5.9 cm, weight of 56.1 +/- 7.5 kg, and a sciatic bone width of 15.5 +/- 1.4 cm were recruited for this study. The distributions of saddle pressure for four different saddle widths (i.e., narrow, moderate, wide, and self-chosen) were recorded using a saddle pressure mat. Participants were instructed to pedal steadily with a frequency of 90 RPM and a load of 150 watts. Thirty seconds of riding data was randomly retrieved for analysis. The trials were conducted with a counter-balanced design to minimize random errors. One-way repeated measures ANOVA was used to compare the saddle pressure of different saddle widths, and the significance level was set at alpha = 0.05. When wide saddles were used, the maximum and average pressure on the right surface of the posterior ischium were lower than those with narrow (p = 0.001, p = 0.012) and moderate (p = 0.016, p = 0.019) saddles. The area of pressure on the pubic bone was smaller when using a wide saddle than when using narrow (p = 0.005) and moderate (p = 0.018) saddles, and the area of prescomfort.		[Lin, Zi-Jun] Natl Taiwan Sport Univ, Grad Inst Athlet & Coaching Sci, Taoyuan, Taiwan; [Wang, Hsin-Huan] Natl Taiwan Sport Univ, Grad Inst Sports Sci, Taoyuan, Taiwan; [Chen, Chia-Hsiang] Natl Pingtung Univ Sci & Technol, Off Phys Educ, Pingtung, Taiwan; [Chen, Chia-Hsiang] Natl Pingtung Univ Sci & Technol, Off Phys Educ, Pingtung, Taiwan								6							Sport Sciences	WOS:001068342400001	38	Article; Article		
J	Wahlquist, Victoria E.; Buckley, Thomas A.; Caccese, Jaclyn B.; Glutting, Joseph J.; Royer, Todd D.; Kaminski, Thomas W.								Quantitative Analysis of Ball-Head Impact Exposure in Youth Soccer Players								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				22	3			591	596		10.52082/jssm.2023.591			SEP 2023	2023	Since the implementation of the US Soccer heading guidelines released in 2015, little to no research on ball-head impact exposure in the United States youth soccer population has been conducted. The purpose was to compare ball-head impact exposure across sex and age in youth soccer players over a weekend tournament. Ten male and female games for each age group (Under12 [U12], U13, and U14) were video recorded at a weekend tournament for a total of 60 games. Ball-head impact exposure for each game was then coded following a review of each recording. Male players were 2.8 times more likely to have ball-head impacts than female players, (p < 0.001) particularly in the U14 age group when compared to the U12 age group (p = 0.012). Overall 92.4% of players experienced 0-1 ball-head impacts per game with the remaining players experiencing 2+ ball-head impacts per game. Ball-head impact exposure levels are low in the youth players. Most youth soccer players do not head the soccer ball during match play and those that did, only headed the ball on average once per game. Overall, the difference in ball-head impact exposure per player was less than 1 between all the groups, which may have no clinical meaning.		[Wahlquist, Victoria E.; Buckley, Thomas A.; Royer, Todd D.; Kaminski, Thomas W.] Univ Delaware, Dept Kinesiol & Appl Physiol, Newark, DE 19716 USA; [Caccese, Jaclyn B.] Ohio State Univ, Coll Med, Sch Hlth & Rehabil Sci, Columbus, OH USA; [Glutting, Joseph J.] Univ Delaware, Sch Educ, Newark, DE USA; [Wahlquist, Victoria E.] Univ Delaware, Dept Kinesiol & Appl Physiol, Newark, DE 19716 USA								7							Sport Sciences	WOS:001069123600001	42	Article; Article		
J	Santos, Catarina C.; Fernandes, Ricardo J.; Marinho, Daniel A.; Costa, Mario J.								From Entry to Finals: Progression and Variability of Swimming Performance at the 2022 FINA World Championships								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				22	3			417	424		10.52082/jssm.2023.417			SEP 2023	2023	The aim of the present study was two-fold: (i) to analyze the progression and variability of swimming performance (from entry times to best performances) in the 50, 100, and 200 m at the most recent FINA World Championships and (ii) to compare the performance of the Top16, semifinalists, and finalists between all rounds. Swimmers who qualified with the FINA A and B standards for the Budapest 2022 World Championships were considered. A total of 1102 individual performances swimmers were analyzed in freestyle, backstroke, breaststroke, and butterfly events. The data was retrieved from the official open-access websites of OMEGA and FINA. Wilcoxon test was used to compare swimmers' entry times and best performances. Repeated measures ANOVA followed by the Bonferroni post-hoc test were performed to analyze the round-to-round progression. The percentage of improvement and variation in the swimmers' performance was computed between rounds. A negative progression (entry times better than best performance) and a high variability (> 0.69%) were found for most events. The finalists showed a positive progression with a greater improvement (-1%) from the heats to the semifinals. However, the performance progression remained unchanged between the semifinals and finals. The variability tended to decrease between rounds making each round more homogeneous. Coaches and swimmers can use these indicators to prepare a race strategy between rounds.		[Santos, Catarina C.; Marinho, Daniel A.] Univ Beira Interior, Dept Sport Sci, Covilha, Portugal; [Santos, Catarina C.; Marinho, Daniel A.] Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev CIDESD, Covilha, Portugal; [Fernandes, Ricardo J.; Costa, Mario J.] Univ Porto, Fac Sport, Ctr Res Educ Innovat & Intervent Sport CIFI2D, Porto, Portugal; [Fernandes, Ricardo J.; Costa, Mario J.] Univ Porto, Porto Biomech Lab LABIOMEP UP, Porto, Portugal; [Santos, Catarina C.] Univ Beira Interior, Dept Sport Sci, Covilha, Portugal; [Santos, Catarina C.] Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev CIDESD, Covilha, Portugal								6							Sport Sciences	WOS:001033967900001	19	Article; Article		
J	Howard, Kyler J.; Galloy, Adam E.; Schmitz, Dylan G.; Frisch, Kayt E.								Ball-To-Hand Contact Forces Increase Modeled Shoulder Torques during a Volleyball Spike								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				22	3			488	495		10.52082/jssm.2023.488			SEP 2023	2023	The volleyball spike is repeated many times in practices and games, presenting a high risk of overuse injury. Previous biomechanical analyses estimating forces on the shoulder during spiking have not included the force exerted on the arm by the ball, because no practical method exists to estimate the contact force between the ball and the hand. The objective of the study was to model the internal shoulder joint reactions while including the measured ball contact force. Ten adolescent female volleyball players performed spikes while we recorded 3D motion capture data for both ball and player. Using an impulse-momentum analysis, we estimated the ball contact force, then included the force in a computational simulation model to estimate the torques produced by the shoulder. The study found that post-contact ball velocities range from 8.6 m/s -18.2 m/s with net forces between 238 N -672 N. Most notably, when the ball contact force was included, the average modeled internal shoulder torque to internally rotate the arm increased from-26 N-m to +44 N-m (p < 0.001). These data suggest that neglecting the contact force may risk mis-interpreting connections between biomechanics and injury due to spiking. More accurate joint mechanics models will lead to better injury prevention recommendations for volleyball players of all ages.		[Howard, Kyler J.; Frisch, Kayt E.] George Fox Univ, Coll Engn, Newberg, OR USA; [Galloy, Adam E.] Univ Iowa, Roy J Carver Dept Biomed Engn, Iowa City, IA USA; [Schmitz, Dylan G.] Univ Wisconsin Madison, Dept Mech Engn, Madison, WI USA; [Frisch, Kayt E.] George Fox Univ, Dept Civil Mech & Biomed Engn, 414 N Meridian St, Newberg, OR 97132 USA; [Frisch, Kayt E.] George Fox Univ, Dept Civil Mech & Biomed Engn, 414 N Meridian St, Newberg, OR 97132 USA								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:001110371100001	33	Article; Article		
J	Rantila, Aapo; Ahtiainen, Juha P.; Hakkinen, Keijo								Effects of Acute Loading Induced Fatigability, Acute Serum Hormone Responses and Training Volume to Individual Hypertrophy and Maximal Strength during 10 Weeks of Strength Training								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				22	3			559	570		10.52082/jssm.2023.559			SEP 2023	2023	This study investigated whether a strength training session -induced acute fatigue is related to individuals' strength training adaptations in maximal force and/or muscle hypertrophy, and whether acute responses in serum testosterone (T) and growth hormone (GH) concentrations during the training sessions would be associated with individual neuromuscular adaptations. 26 males completed the 10-week strength-training intervention, which included fatiguing dynamic leg press acute loading bouts (5 x 10 RM) at weeks two, four, six, and ten. Blood samples were collected before and after the loading and after 24h of recovery for serum T, GH, and cortisol (C) concentrations at weeks 2, 6, and 10. The cross-sectional area of the vastus lateralis was measured by ultrasonography. Isometric force measurements were performed before and immediately after loadings, and loading -induced acute decrease in maximal force was reported as the fatigue percentage. The subjects were split into three groups according to the degree of training-induced muscle hypertrophy after the training period. Increases in isometric force were significant for High Responders (HR, n = 10) (by 24.3 % +/- 17.2, p = 0.035) and Medium Responders (MR, n = 7) (by 23.8 % +/- 5.5, p = 0.002), whereas the increase of 26.2 % (+/- 16.5) in Low Responders (LR, n = 7) was not significant. The amount of work (cm + s) increased significantly at every measurement point in all the groups. A significant correlation was observed between the fatigue percentage and relative changes in isometric force after the training period for the whole group (R = 0.475, p = 0.022) and separately only in HR (R = 0.643, p = 0.049). Only the HR group showed increased acute serum GH concentrations at every measurement point. There was also a significant acute increase in serum T for HR at weeks 6 and 10. HR showed the strongest correlation between acute loading-induced fatigue and isometric force gains. HR was also more sensitive to acute increases in serum concentrations of T and GH after the loading. Acute fatigue and serum GH concentrations may be indicators of responsiveness to muscle strength gain and, to some extent, muscle hypertrophy.		[Rantila, Aapo; Ahtiainen, Juha P.; Hakkinen, Keijo] Univ Jyvaskyla, Fac Sport & Hlth Sci, Neuromuscular Res Ctr, POB 35, FI-40014 Jyvaskyla, Finland; [Rantila, Aapo] Univ Jyvaskyla, Fac Sport & Hlth Sci, Neuromuscular Res Ctr, POB 35, FI-40014 Jyvaskyla, Finland								7							Sport Sciences	WOS:001061698100001	55	Article; Article		
J	Skinner, Brendon; Dunn, Lauren; Moss, Richard								The Acute Effects of TheragunTM Percussive Therapy on Viscoelastic Tissue Dynamics and Hamstring Group Range of Motion								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				22	3			496	501		10.52082/jssm.2023.496			SEP 2023	2023	Handheld percussive therapy (PT) massage guns have seen a rapid rise in use and with-it increased attention within injury pre-vention and sport performance settings. Early studies have pro-posed beneficial effects upon range of motion (ROM), however the mechanism behind these increases remains unreported. This study aimed to determine the influence of a minimal frequency PT dose upon ROM and myotonometry outcomes. Twenty participants (N = 20; 13 males and 7 females, height 1.78cm +/- 9.62; weight 77.35kg +/- 8.46) participants were allocated to either a PT group receiving 2 x 60-seconds (plus 30-seconds rest) via a TheragunTM Pro4 to the hamstrings covering a standardised 20 lengths from proximal to distal via the standard ball attachment at 1 bar of pressure or a control group (CON) of 2-minutes 30-sec-onds passive supine rest. Pre and post intervention outcomes were measured for ROM via passive straight leg raise (PSLR) and tis-sue dynamics via MyotonPro (Tone, Stiffness, Elasticity, Relaxation Time). Results showed significant within-group increases (p < 0.0001, eta p(2) 0.656, +11.4%) in ROM following PT and be-tween group difference against CON (P < 0.026). Significant within-group differences in stiffness (p < 0.016, eta p(2) 0.144,-6%), tone (p < 0.003, eta p(2) 0.213, +2%) and relaxation time (p 0.002, eta p(2) 0.232, +6.3%) were also reported following PT. No signifi-cant difference was reported in elasticity (P 0.05) or any other between group outcomes. PT therapy can provide an acute in-crease in hamstring group ROM following a resultant decrease in tissue stiffness.		[Skinner, Brendon; Dunn, Lauren] Univ Northampton, Ctr Phys Activ & Life Sci, Northampton, England; [Moss, Richard] Univ Nottingham, Fac Med & Hlth Sci, Nottingham, England; [Skinner, Brendon] Univ Northampton, Ctr Phys Activ & Life Sci, Northampton, England								30							Sport Sciences	WOS:001052201600001	39	Article; Article		
J	Mendoza-Munoz, Maria; Carlos-Vivas, Jorge; Castillo-Paredes, Antonio; Sum, Raymond Kim Wai; Rojo-Ramos, Jorge; Pastor-Cisneros, Raquel								Translation, Cultural Adaptation and Validation of Perceived Physical Literacy Instrument-Spanish Version (PPLI-Sp) for Adults								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				22	3			455	464		10.52082/jssm.2023.455			SEP 2023	2023	To translate and culturally adapt the Perceived Physical Literacy Instrument (PPLI) questionnaire, as well as to evaluate the factor structure. A single-measure cross-sectional study was conducted. For the first phase of the study, a translation and cultural adaptation of the PPLI questionnaire was carried out, as well as an interview, with the aim of assessing the understanding of the instrument. In the second part of the study, exploratory (EFA) and con -firmatory (CFA) factorial analyses were conducted. A total of 213 Spanish adults with a mean age of 27.40 (10.58) participated. EFA was performed because of the good results offered by the sampling adequacy indices (Bartlett test = 1081.848; df = 153; p < 0.001; and KMO test = 0.825). The factor solution comprised three correlated factors:1) physical competence, 2) motivation and confidence, and 3) knowledge and understanding. After the EFA, items 7, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15 and 17 were excluded. Therefore, through CFA, a factor structure of 9 items grouped into three dimensions was extracted. The PPLI-Sp version for adults, obtained from the back-translation process as well as after individual interviews, proved to be valid and reliable after the EFA and CFA analyses, obtaining an instrument of nine items, divided into three dimensions. This instrument can be used to determine the perception of physical literacy among different Spanish adult populations.										15							Sport Sciences	WOS:001048527900001	53	Article; Article		
J	Abdolmaleki, Hossein; Mohammadi, Sardar; Babaei, Mehdi; Soheili, Behzad; Dickson, Geoff; Funk, Dan								Co-branding drivers between professional sport organizations and on-field sports apparel sponsors								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP										708401	10.1108/IJSMS-03-2023-0048			AUG 28 2023	2023	Purpose This study aims to investigate drivers of co-branding, and the relative strength of these drivers within the Persian Gulf Pro League (PGPL). The study examines sport sponsorship, and specifically the relationship between professional football teams and on-field apparel sponsors.Design/methodology/approach Sixteen experts participated in semi-structured interviews and ranked the co-branding drivers. The expert opinions were organized into estimates and triangular fuzzy numbers were established before the Mamdani Fuzzy Inference System converted the fuzzy outputs into crisp output values using the Centroid method. Next, the rankings of the drivers by the same 16 participants were analyzed using the analytical hierarchy process (AHP).Findings The study identified four main factors with 19 indicators: brand management (i.e. enhancing brand value, utilizing the knowledge and experience of partner brands, brand position, brand identity, brand equity and brand image), partner relationships (i.e. satisfaction, mutual trust, commitment, common interest, product reliability and innovative strategies), marketing factors (i.e. marketing mix, market position, competitive advantage and entry into new domestic markets) and supporting factors (i.e. copyright, contracts and social media law). The AHP identified the most influential factors as marketing, partner relationships, brand management and support.Originality/value Based on the study's findings, the authors recommend that PGPL teams adopt a partnership mindset, seek alignment of values and recognize the plurality of stakeholders to a sponsorship and their relationships to each other. The study highlights the challenges of co-branding activities in a developing country where trademark laws are not well developed.		[Abdolmaleki, Hossein; Babaei, Mehdi] Islamic Azad Univ, Karaj Branch, Karaj, Iran; [Mohammadi, Sardar] Univ Kurdistan, Sanandaj, Iran; [Soheili, Behzad] Islamic Azad Univ, Malard Branch, Tehran, Iran; [Dickson, Geoff] La Trobe Univ, Melbourne, Australia; [Funk, Dan] Temple Univ, Philadelphia, PA USA; [Dickson, Geoff] La Trobe Univ, Melbourne, Australia								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001093812500001	86	Article; Article		
J	Teahan, Calvin; Whyte, Enda F.; O'Connor, Siobhan								Gaelic games players' awareness and use of, and attitudes towards injury prevention exercise programmes								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				64				17	26		10.1016/j.ptsp.2023.08.003			NOV 2023	2023	Objective: The aim was to determine the awareness of and use of injury prevention exercise programmes (IPEPs) among adult Gaelic games players and to investigate Gaelic games players' attitudes to injury prevention and barriers and facilitators to successful IPEPs use.Methods: A recruitment email was sent to all clubs and county boards throughout Ireland (whose email was available online) and the survey was advertised on social media platforms. Adult players completed an anonymous survey, including awareness, use, and attitudes towards injury prevention and injuries. Frequencies and descriptive statistics were conducted, a chi-squared test was used to assess any differences in awareness and use of IPEPs, a Mann-Whitney U test was used to examine differences between groups for attitudes to injury prevention (men vs women; elite vs non-elite). Results: A third of players (32.4%) stated awareness of IPEPs. However, only 13.4% correctly identified one. A significantly greater number of men (35.7%) used IPEPs compared to women (26.5%) (p = 0.04). The Activate (65.5%) and GAA15 (32.5%) were most used. Players had a positive attitude towards injury prevention but agreed that injuries were an issue (68.2%) and stated that their coach didn't have enough knowledge how to use IPEPs was a large barrier (41.6%).Conclusion: Despite this positive attitude to injury prevention and believing injuries are an issue, adoption remains low. Organisations/clubs should educate players on the benefits of using IPEPs and support structures put in place to gain greater implementation, which is critical to mitigating the risk of injury.		[Teahan, Calvin; Whyte, Enda F.; O'Connor, Siobhan] Dublin City Univ, Ctr Injury Prevent & Performance, Sch Hlth & Human Performance, Dublin, Ireland; [Teahan, Calvin] Dublin City Univ, Sch Hlth & Human Performance, Dublin, Ireland; [Teahan, Calvin] Dublin City Univ, Sch Hlth & Human Performance, Dublin, Ireland								9							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001076413600001	50	Article; Article		
J	Corrigan, John; O'Keeffe, Sinead; Whyte, Enda; O'Connor, Siobhan								Injury prevention in ladies Gaelic football referees: Understanding the barriers, facilitators, and preferences of referees								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				64				8	16		10.1016/j.ptsp.2023.08.004			NOV 2023	2023	Objectives: The injury prevalence in Gaelic games refereeing is high, however few are adopting injury prevention programmes. This study aims to identify the barriers and facilitators to injury prevention strategy success and determine Ladies Gaelic Football referees' preferences for injury prevention strategies and education.Design: Semi-structured interviews were conducted with 11 Ladies Gaelic Football referees (10 men, 1 woman). Two were club level, two were provincial level and 7 were national level referees. Interviews were audiorecorded, transcribed verbatim, and reflexive thematic analysis was completed. This analysis involved examining the data repeatedly and gradually developing sub-themes, themes, and categories related to each core concept.Results: The barriers to injury prevention success included negative attitudes, accessibility issues, lack of education, the state of refereeing and undesirable injury prevention strategy characteristics. Injury prevention promotion, suitable strategy characteristics and open communication were believed to facilitate success. Referees gave their preferences for injury prevention programmes, strategy logistics, and stakeholder roles along with their preferred topics, delivery, educators, characteristics, rollout, and timing for injury prevention education. Conclusions: Reducing referee injury is critical to the success of Ladies Gaelic Football and other community sports. Governing bodies must develop and support injury prevention programmes and education for referees. These should be designed according to referees' preferences and consider the barriers and facilitators referees have identified to maximise adoption.		[Corrigan, John; O'Keeffe, Sinead; Whyte, Enda; O'Connor, Siobhan] Dublin City Univ, Ctr Injury Prevent & Performance, Sch Hlth & Human Performance, Dublin, Ireland; [Corrigan, John] Dublin City Univ, Ctr Injury Prevent & Performance, Sch Hlth & Human Performance, Dublin, Ireland								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001068310900001	39	Article; Article		
J	Pill, Shane; Petersen, Jasmine; Agnew, Deb; Prichard, Ivanka; Ridley, Kate								Barriers, supports and constraints on women coaching in tennis								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	1			33	40	17479541231191596	10.1177/17479541231191596			FEB 2024	2024	Background: In Australia, there are fewer women in tennis coaching roles. Identifying the barriers (and supports) for women in sport coaching roles is necessary to inform the development of strategies that will address this underrepresentation of women in such roles. Aim: This study aimed to examine the experiences of women in tennis coaching roles in Australia. Methods: Semi-structured interviews were conducted with 26 women coaches (M-age = 45.5 +/- 11.6 years) purposefully sampled from Tennis Australia 'coach members'. An inductive thematic analysis was conducted. The investigation was underpinned by the ecological systems theory. Findings: Five themes were drawn from the analysis of the interview transcripts: (a) stereotypically male profession, (b) career instability and longevity, (c) family/work-life tension, (d) organisational support and (e) career advancement opportunities. Conclusion: This study provides important insight into strategies that may assist in addressing the gender disparity that exists in the sport coaching profession. Specifically, increased provision of support (e.g. organisational support), guidance in relation to pursuing a coaching career, developmental opportunities and financial support will be important to attracting and retaining women in coaching roles.		[Pill, Shane; Petersen, Jasmine; Agnew, Deb; Ridley, Kate] Flinders Univ S Australia, Coll Educ Psychol & Social Work, Adelaide, Australia; [Prichard, Ivanka] Flinders Univ S Australia, Coll Nursing & Hlth Sci, Bedford Pk, Australia; [Pill, Shane] Flinders Univ S Australia, Coll Educ Psychol & Social Work, Adelaide, Australia								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001060551500001	35	Article; Article		
J	Muchaxo, Rafael E. A.; Kouwijzer, Ingrid; van der Woude, Lucas H. V.; Janssen, Thomas W. J.; Nooijen, Carla F. J.; de Groot, Sonja								The impact of lower-limb function on upper-limb pull and push strength in elite handcycling athletes								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	11			3190	3204		10.1080/14763141.2023.2242323			NOV 2 2025	2025	This study investigated the impact of performing a closed kinetic chain with the lower limbs on isometric upper-limb pull and push strength. Sixty-two elite handcyclists were assessed with the Manual Muscle Test and allocated to groups with partial to normal (LLF) or no lower-limb (no-LLF) function. Both groups performed upper-limb strength measurements under two kinetic-chain conditions. During the closed-chain condition, the lower limbs were attached to two footrests, providing horizontal and vertical support. During the open-chain condition, the footrests were removed and the limbs were supported vertically by a horizontal plate. Repeated-measures ANOVA were conducted to investigate main effects (open vs. closed chain, LLF vs. no-LLF) and their interaction. During pull, LLF performed better (p < 0.001, +11%) by pushing against the footrests. However, this increase in pulling strength during a closed-chain condition was not observed in the no-LLF. Therefore, findings suggest an advantage for the least impaired athletes by being able to perform lower-limb closed chains during pulling. Handcyclists with LLF can maximise pulling performance by adjusting the footrests. The classification system should consider the implications of these findings on the allocation of athletes with different levels of LLF and/or on the equipment regulation.		[Muchaxo, Rafael E. A.; Janssen, Thomas W. J.; de Groot, Sonja] Vrije Univ Amsterdam, Fac Behav & Movement Sci, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Muchaxo, Rafael E. A.; Kouwijzer, Ingrid; Janssen, Thomas W. J.; de Groot, Sonja] Amsterdam Rehabil Res Ctr, Reade, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Kouwijzer, Ingrid] Heliomare Rehabil Ctr, Res & Dev, Wijk Aan Zee, Netherlands; [Kouwijzer, Ingrid; van der Woude, Lucas H. V.] Univ Groningen, Univ Med Ctr Groningen, Ctr Human Movement Sci, Groningen, Netherlands; [van der Woude, Lucas H. V.] Univ Groningen, Univ Med Ctr Groningen, Ctr Rehabil, Groningen, Netherlands; [van der Woude, Lucas H. V.] Loughborough Univ, Peter Harrison Ctr Disabil Sport, Sch Sports Exercise & Hlth, Loughborough, England; [Janssen, Thomas W. J.; de Groot, Sonja] Amsterdam Inst Sport Sci, Ctr Adapted Sports Amsterdam, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Nooijen, Carla F. J.] Swedish Sch Sport & Hlth Sci GIH, Stockholm, Sweden; [Muchaxo, Rafael E. A.] Vrije Univ Amsterdam, Fac Behav & Movement Sci, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Muchaxo, Rafael E. A.] Amsterdam Rehabil Res Ctr, Reade, Amsterdam, Netherlands								4							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001093290400001	11	Article; Article		
J	do Nascimento Junior, Jose Roberto de Andrade; Freire, Gabriel Lucas Morais; Contreira, Andressa Ribeiro; Quinaud, Ricardo T.; Jowett, Sophia; Goncalves, Marina Pereira; de Oliveira, Daniel Vicentini; Fiorese, Lenamar								Psychometric properties of the Coach-Athlete Relationship Questionnaire (CART-Q) in a sample of Brazilian youth and adult athletes								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	1			5	18		10.1177/17479541231194758			FEB 2024	2024	This study examined the psychometric properties of the Coach-Athlete Relationship Questionnaire (CART-Q) in a sample of 1344 Brazilian youth and adult athletes. Participants completed the CART-Q and the Basic Needs Satisfaction in Sport Scale (BNSSS). Data analysis was conducted through Confirmatory Factor Analysis (CFA), Structural Equation Modeling (SEM), Cronbach's alpha, composite reliability, multigroup analysis, and Pearson's correlation (p < .05). CFA confirmed a multidimensional structure containing the three dimensions of Closeness, Commitment, and Complementarity: & chi;(2) (37) = 264.10; & chi;(2)/df = 5.13; CFI = .96; TLI = .94; and RMSEA = .068. Internal consistency was satisfactory (>.70). SEM model showed an acceptable fit (& chi;(2) (56) = 593.28; & chi;(2)/df = 2.71; CFI = .90; TLI = .90; RMSEA = .057), indicating that the three dimensions of the CART-Q predicted positively all basic needs satisfaction subscales (& beta; range = .11 to .38). CART-Q was revealed to be invariant across gender, sport type, and age group. It was concluded that the CART-Q can satisfactorily be used in research studies involving Brazilian athletes regardless of their age group, gender, and sport.		[do Nascimento Junior, Jose Roberto de Andrade; Freire, Gabriel Lucas Morais; Goncalves, Marina Pereira] Univ Fed Vale Sao Francisco, Phys Educ Coll, Petrolina, Brazil; [Freire, Gabriel Lucas Morais; de Oliveira, Daniel Vicentini; Fiorese, Lenamar] Univ Estadual Maringa, Phys Educ Coll, Maringa, Brazil; [Contreira, Andressa Ribeiro] State Univ Amazonas, Phys Educ Coll, Maringa, AM, Brazil; [Quinaud, Ricardo T.] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Phys Educ Coll, Florianopolis, Brazil; [Jowett, Sophia] Loughborough Univ, Sch Sport Exercise & Hlth Sci, Loughborough, England; [Freire, Gabriel Lucas Morais] Univ Estadual Maringa, Phys Educ Coll, Maringa, Brazil								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001051098400001	57	Article; Article		
J	Altmann, Stefan; Ruf, Ludwig; Filter, Alberto; Haertel, Sascha; Naujoks, Tobias; Rauprich, Marvin; Seyler, Claudia; Baydoun, Hussein; Woll, Alexander								Curved sprinting in soccer: The influence of radius								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	3			1234	1239		10.1177/17479541231193807			JUN 2024	2024	The aims of this study were (i) to compare the sprint times between linear-sprint (LS) and curved-sprint (CS) tests of different radii, and (ii) to examine the relationships between sprint times in these tests in soccer players. Nineteen elite youth male soccer players (age, 18.6 +/- 0.6 years) completed an LS test and three CS tests with different radii both from the left and the right side (11.15-m radius = CSwide, 9.15-m radius = CSmedium and 7.15-m radius = CSnarrow), each with a distance of 17 m. Differences in sprint times were examined using analysis of variance with Bonferroni-corrected pairwise comparisons and Cohen's d effect sizes (ES). Relationships between sprint times were determined by Pearson's product-moment correlations (r). Significantly lower sprint times were evident for LS compared to all three CS tests (p < .001, MD = 0.08-0.16 s, ES = 0.83-1.49), for CSwide compared to CSnarrow (p = .02, MD = 0.04 s, ES = 0.47) and for CSmedium compared to CSnarrow (p < .001, MD = 0.07 s, ES = 0.82). Very large correlations (p < .001, r = 0.75-0.80) were found between sprint times in LS and the three CS tests. Very large to nearly perfect correlations (p < .001, r = 0.79-0.91) were found within the three CS tests. Practitioners should be aware that sprint times are lower in LS compared to CS of different radii and that CS times are higher at narrower angles compared to wider angles. Given the high correlations within three CS tests, the application of only one CS (e.g., CSmedium) during a test battery may be sufficient if using different CS is not possible. Results of the correlation analysis also suggest that LS contributes to CS performance, however, to slightly different extents depending on the radius of the CS. Consequently, both LS and CS drills might be incorporated into sprint training practices of elite youth soccer players.		[Altmann, Stefan; Naujoks, Tobias; Rauprich, Marvin; Seyler, Claudia; Baydoun, Hussein; Woll, Alexander] Karlsruhe Inst Technol, Inst Sports & Sports Sci, Karlsruhe, Germany; [Ruf, Ludwig] TSG ResearchLab gGmbH, Zuzenhausen, Germany; [Ruf, Ludwig; Haertel, Sascha] TSG 1899 Hoffenheim, Zuzenhausen, Germany; [Filter, Alberto] Univ Pablo Olavide UPO, Fac Sport, Seville, Spain; [Filter, Alberto] FSI Lab, Granada, Spain; [Altmann, Stefan] Karlsruhe Inst Technol, Inst Sports & Sports Sci, Engler Bunte Ring 15, D-76128 Karlsruhe, Germany; [Altmann, Stefan] Karlsruhe Inst Technol, Inst Sports & Sports Sci, Engler Bunte Ring 15, D-76128 Karlsruhe, Germany								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001093281300001	28	Article; Article		
J	Matthews, Alysha D.; Erickson, Karl								Exploring the use of individualized consideration by minor hockey coaches								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	1			77	87		10.1177/17479541231193302			FEB 2024	2024	Transformational leadership has been presented as a tool for coaches to foster positive youth development. One component of this concept is individualized consideration (IC), where leaders show care through supporting their followers' individual needs. Examining the unique context of minor hockey will provide a more nuanced and complex description of IC. Therefore, the purpose of this study is to demonstrate how minor hockey coaches consider individual differences and tailor their practice to athletes' needs. Semi-structured qualitative interviews were conducted with 10 male minor hockey coaches whose teams consisted of 9- to 13-year-old, predominantly male, athletes. Findings show these coaches demonstrated the use of IC through three steps (a) gathering information about their athletes (e.g. engaging in interactions), (b) assessing individual needs (e.g. developmental) and (c) acting to support IC (e.g. adjusting coaching practices). Findings suggest (a) IC can be implemented to support basic and more complex needs of athletes, (b) IC can be implemented with teams of athletes and (c) the context of minor hockey is constraining the implementation of IC.		[Matthews, Alysha D.] Michigan State Univ, Dept Kinesiol, 308 W Circle Dr,Rm 207, E Lansing, MI 48824 USA; [Erickson, Karl] York Univ, Sch Kinesiol & Hlth Sci, Toronto, ON, Canada; [Matthews, Alysha D.] Michigan State Univ, Dept Kinesiol, 308 W Circle Dr,Rm 207, E Lansing, MI 48824 USA								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001093273200001	55	Article; Article		
J	Sato, Daisuke; Suito, Hiroshi; Yamashita, Naoyuki; Kusanagi, Kenta; Mizukami, Takuya; Takahashi, Shigehiro								Effect of backstroke ledge on backstroke start technique for water entry								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	12			3235	3245		10.1080/14763141.2023.2245807			DEC 1 2024	2024	This study aimed to investigate how the use of a backstroke ledge (BSL) affects backstroke start performance in terms of flight distance and water entry posture in competitive backstroke swimmers. Ten male swimmers performed a maximum of 15 m in backstroke, starting with or without a BSL. Two 120 Hz and one 60 Hz video cameras were used to analyse the kinematic variables and angular momentum of the whole body. Using a BSL reduced the time to reach 5 and 15 m compared with not using a BSL (p < 0.04). Using a BSL heightened vertical position of the centre of mass (CM) at take-off, lengthened flight distance, and increased angular momentum (p < 0.02). Additionally, the lower limb entry angle was larger, and the hole entry posture angle was smaller with a BSL than without a BSL (p < 0.04). These results suggest that a high CM position at the start of the backstroke with a BSL increased the flight distance, and a large angular momentum enabled hole entry as well as improved the horizontal velocity after water entry. Hence, increases in flight distance and velocity after water entry were contributing factors in improving the start performance of the backstroke when using a BSL.		[Sato, Daisuke] Osaka Univ Hlth & Sport Sci, Sports Sci Ctr, Sennan, Japan; [Suito, Hiroshi] Mie Univ, Fac Educ, Tsu, Japan; [Yamashita, Naoyuki] Kyoto Inst Technol, Fac Arts & Sci, Kyoto, Japan; [Kusanagi, Kenta; Mizukami, Takuya; Takahashi, Shigehiro] Chukyo Univ, Sch Hlth & Sport Sci, Toyota, Japan; [Sato, Daisuke] Osaka Univ Hlth & Sport Sci, Sports Sci Ctr, Sennan, Japan								1							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001045948600001	13	Article; Article		
J	Kempe, Harald; Rasmussen-Barr, Eva; von Rosen, Philip								Coaches' experiences of injury prevention in youth elite athletes: An interview study of 10 coaches								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				63				112	117		10.1016/j.ptsp.2023.07.007			SEP 2023	2023	Introduction: Injury prevention is important to reduce the high injury risk in youth elite athletes studying at sports high schools. Coaches are considered important in youth elite sports and injury prevention. Objectives: The aim was to investigate perceptions and experiences of injury prevention among coaches at sports high schools. Methods: A manifest qualitative content analysis with an inductive approach was used based on ten semistructured interviews with coaches who work at sports high schools. Results: An overarching theme "Coaches of youth athletes value injury prevention but have limited knowledge and support" was identified and five main categories were formed. Coaches perceived themselves to play an important role in injury prevention, yet they described limited time for knowledge acquisition and highlighted the close collaboration with other professions as a key in injury prevention. Conclusion: A coach's knowledge and support are critical factors in injury prevention of youth elite athletes. Evidence-based as well as non-evidence-based approaches are used, and the biopsychosocial perspective was not always taken into consideration. A need for more interprofessional collaboration and knowledge acquisition regarding injury prevention is warranted.		[Kempe, Harald; Rasmussen-Barr, Eva; von Rosen, Philip] Karolinska Inst, Div Physiotherapy, Dept Neurobiol Care Sci & Soc, Alfred Nobels Alle 23, S-14183 Huddinge, Sweden; [von Rosen, Philip] Karolinska Inst, Div Physiotherapy, Dept Neurobiol Care Sci & Soc, Alfred Nobels Alle 23, S-14183 Huddinge, Sweden								7							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001053349400001	30	Article; Article		
J	Miyazaki, Yusuke; Sugizaki, Rui; Kawasaki, Miku; Nakagawa, Takumi; Saho, Yasuaki; Tateishi, Tomohiko								Fifth metatarsal strain distribution during cutting motions in soccer								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	11			3173	3189		10.1080/14763141.2023.2241839			NOV 2 2025	2025	The objective of this study was to determine the fifth metatarsal strain generation mechanism during cutting motions performed while playing soccer using a finite element foot model. Five collegiate soccer players performed the side-step cutting and the cross-step cutting motions to measure the three-dimensional foot kinematics, ground reaction force, and plantar pressure distribution. In addition, a finite-element model of a foot consisting of bony structures, ligaments, and skin was constructed from computed tomography images. Simulations were conducted to perform the cutting motions, using the measured foot motion and distributed load on the plantar surface as boundary conditions for the model. During the side-step cutting, the maximum principal strain on the fifth metatarsal was correlated to forefoot adduction angle during stepping out. For cross-step cutting, the maximum principal strain was correlated with plantar pressure at the distal end of the fifth metatarsal. Therefore, to prevent a fracture, it is necessary to take measures to reduce the lateral bending deformation of the forefoot while stepping out during side-step cutting and to reduce the plantar pressure on the distal end of the fifth metatarsal during cross-step cutting.		[Miyazaki, Yusuke; Sugizaki, Rui; Kawasaki, Miku; Nakagawa, Takumi] Tokyo Inst Technol, Dept Syst & Control Engn, Tokyo, Japan; [Saho, Yasuaki] Teikyo Univ, Dept Sport & Med Sci, Tokyo, Japan; [Tateishi, Tomohiko] Fratern Mem Hosp, Div Orthoped, Tokyo, Japan; [Miyazaki, Yusuke] Tokyo Inst Technol, Dept Syst & Control Engn, Tokyo, Japan								2							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001039658900001	36	Article; Article		
J	Morais, Jorge E.; Barbosa, Tiago M.; Lopes, Tiago; Moriyama, Shin-Ichiro; Marinho, Daniel A.								Comparison of swimming velocity between age-group swimmers through discrete variables and continuous variables by Statistical Parametric Mapping								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	12			3394	3405		10.1080/14763141.2023.2241845			DEC 1 2024	2024	The aim of this study was to compare the swimming velocity in front-crawl between age-group swimmers using discrete variables against Statistical Parametric Mapping (SPM). The sample consisted of 30 young male swimmers divided into three groups (each with 10 swimmers) based on their age (group #1: 13.60 +/- 0.84 years; group #2: 15.40 +/- 0.32 years; group 3: 16.39 +/- 0.69 years). Swimmers performed three maximal trials in front-crawl. The best performance was used for analysis. Comparison of swimming velocity between groups was analysed using discrete variables and as a continuous variable (SPM). As a discrete variable, the mean swimming velocity showed a significant difference between groups (p < 0.05). Moreover, when analysed by SPM, swimming velocity showed a significant difference (p = 0.021) between the similar to 44% and similar to 51% of the stroke cycle (transition of the propulsion phases between sides). Post-hoc comparison revealed a significant difference between group #1 and group #3 only in SPM analysis. Researchers, coaches, and practitioners should know that both measurement approaches can be used simultaneously. However, SPM offers more sensitive and accurate results about the swimmers' stroke cycle.		[Morais, Jorge E.; Barbosa, Tiago M.] Inst Politecn Braganca, Dept Sport Sci, Braganca, Portugal; [Morais, Jorge E.; Barbosa, Tiago M.; Marinho, Daniel A.] Res Ctr Sports Hlth & Human Dev CIDESD, Covilha, Portugal; [Lopes, Tiago; Marinho, Daniel A.] Univ Beira Interior, Dept Sport Sci, Covilha, Portugal; [Moriyama, Shin-Ichiro] Tokyo Gakugei Univ, Fac Educ, Dept Hlth & Sports Sci, Tokyo, Japan; [Morais, Jorge E.] Inst Politecn Braganca, Dept Sport Sci, Braganca, Portugal								5							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001040692100001	50	Article; Article		
J	Bonder, Ian J. J.; Shim, Andrew L. L.								In-Season Training Model for National Association of Intercollegiate Athletics Female Basketball Players Using "Microdosed" Programming								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				45	4			395	410		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000741			AUG 2023	2023	Basketball is an intermittent-intensity sport requiring sufficient levels of muscular strength and power to display successful performance. To achieve high levels of performance, proficiency must be attained in jumping/repeated jump ability, sprinting/repeated sprint ability, change of direction/agility, and basketball-specific skills. The "in-season" period during a National Association of Intercollegiate Athletics female basketball team comprises more than 6 months of the annual plan, making it the longest uninterrupted training "'block" throughout the year. However, no more than 3 hours per day may be allotted for practice, skill work, and training. Because of competition, travel, and academic obligations, little time may be available for training. The purpose of this article is to provide a time-efficient, in-season training plan using microdosing programming methodology directed at improving muscular strength and power. In turn, improvements in strength and power will be the foundation of developing traits specific to successful basketball performance and reducing chances of injury. In addition, methods to monitor individual daily fatigue are provided.		[Bonder, Ian J. J.; Shim, Andrew L. L.] Coll St Mary, Dept Kinesiol & Exercise Sci, Omaha, NE 68106 USA; [Bonder, Ian J. J.] Coll St Mary, Dept Kinesiol & Exercise Sci, Omaha, NE 68106 USA								6							Sport Sciences	WOS:001042888900002	110	Article; Article		
J	Johnson, David; Williams, Sean; Bekker, Sheree; Bradley, Ben; Cumming, Sean								English academy football practitioners' perceptions of training load, maturation and injury risk: A club case study								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	1			417	428		10.1177/17479541231188071			FEB 2024	2024	The management of training load in youth team-sport athletes is important. There is, however, a lack of research on practitioners' perceptions and understandings of managing training load during this period and what this means in terms of maturational status and injury risk. This study aimed to investigate academy football practitioners' perceptions and understanding of training load, maturation and injury risk in young male footballers. Coaches, sports scientists, medical staff and key stakeholders from a professional football club academy in England participated in focus groups investigating their understanding and perceptions of training load, maturation and injury risk. A qualitative descriptive methodology utilising framework analysis was used to capture and better understand participants' views. Findings revealed that practitioners consider managing training load during adolescence to be comprised of, and mediated by, three key elements: club philosophy, factors inside the club's control (periodisation strategy; staff member practice), and factors outside the club's control (life load; growth and maturation). This study is an important addition to the current literature on managing injuries through the growth spurt by investigating how different stakeholders perceive training load, maturation and potential strategies to mitigate risk.		[Johnson, David; Williams, Sean; Bekker, Sheree; Cumming, Sean] Univ Bath, Dept Hlth, Bath BA2 7AY, England; [Johnson, David; Bradley, Ben] AFC Bournemouth, Acad Sports Sci & Med Dept, Bournemouth, England; [Johnson, David] Univ Bath, Dept Hlth, Bath BA2 7AY, England								8							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001040606600001	47	Article; Article		
J	Birr, Caroline; Hernandez-Mendo, Antonio; Monteiro, Diogo; Brandao, Regina; Rosado, Antonio								Relations between empowering and disempowering motivational climate with burnout, fear of failure and grit								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	3			1164	1174		10.1177/17479541231191086			JUN 2024	2024	The coach-created motivational climate refers to the environmental factors that influence the athletes' emotional, cognitive, physical and social experiences and could be more or less empowering. The present study aimed to determine the connection between the empowering and disempowering motivational climate (EDMC) with other variables, from several sports (328 males and 118 females; M age = 17.60 years; SD = 6.27) completed questionnaires assessing perceptions of coach-created motivational climates, burnout, fear of failure and grit. Structural equation modeling revealed that the empowering motivational climate is negatively related with burnout and with fear of failure. In addition, the disempowering motivational climate is positively related with burnout and with fear of failure. In turn, the grit dimension, perseverance of effort, was not significantly associated with burnout; it showed, however, a significantly negative association with fear of failure. The EDMCs were not related with grit-perseverance of effort and grit-consistence of interests. Overall, this study suggests that creating empowering environments can play a crucial role in mitigating emotional and physical exhaustion, as well as the fear of failure that athletes often experience in the context of sports.		[Birr, Caroline] Univ Lisbon, Fac Human Kinet, Lisbon, Portugal; [Hernandez-Mendo, Antonio] Malaga Univ, Malaga, Spain; [Monteiro, Diogo] ESECS Polytech Leiria, Leiria, Portugal; [Monteiro, Diogo] Hlth Sci & Human Dev CIDESD, Res Ctr Sports Sci, Vila Real, Portugal; [Monteiro, Diogo] Life Qual Res Ctr CIEQV, Leiria, Portugal; [Brandao, Regina] Univ Sao Judas Tadeu, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil; [Rosado, Antonio] Univ Lisbon, Fac Human Kinet, Lisbon, Portugal; [Rosado, Antonio] CIPER, Lab Sport Psychol, Lisbon, Portugal; [Birr, Caroline] Univ Lisbon, Fac Human Kinet, Lisbon, Portugal								12							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001040617700001	74	Article; Article		
J	Malcolm, Dominic; Hardwicke, Jack; Kenyon, James Andrew								Concussion knowledge, attitudes and reporting intention amongst UK university student-athletes: Implications for institutions, coaches and future research								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	1			88	98		10.1177/17479541231190154			FEB 2024	2024	This article reports on a survey of concussion knowledge (CK), attitudes (CA) and reporting intention (CRI) amongst a multisport cohort of UK university student-athletes. A cross-sectional study design was used, with 217 student-athletes completing the Rosenbaum Concussion Knowledge and Attitudes Survey - Student Version. The findings show that CK is broadly aligned with previous study cohorts including research in North America, and that sport type had no effect on CK, CA and CRI. Whilst gender did not affect CA or CRI, males returned higher CK scores than females. The respondents' concussion history did not affect CA. Paradoxically, respondents with a history of concussion had significantly greater CK scores yet were more likely to report an intention to continue playing with SRC symptoms. There are three key implications of these findings. The comparison of findings between males and females highlights the need for a more nuanced conceptualisation of safety and risk in relation to SRC. Second, the evidence suggests a strong need for UK universities to introduce bespoke education programmes and policies formalising the healthcare support and return to learn of students post-SRC. Third, awareness of the complex interplay between SRC knowledge, experience and behaviour will enable coaches across all sports to exercise caution when managing SRC amongst students. The article concludes by arguing that there is a need for further qualitative research to understand how concussion is experienced by UK university students and provided for and accommodated within UK universities.		[Malcolm, Dominic; Kenyon, James Andrew] Loughborough Univ, Loughborough, England; [Hardwicke, Jack] Univ Northampton, Northampton, England; [Malcolm, Dominic] Loughborough Univ, Sch Sport Exercise & Hlth Sci, Loughborough LE11 3TU, Leics, England; [Malcolm, Dominic] Loughborough Univ, Loughborough, England; [Malcolm, Dominic] Loughborough Univ, Sch Sport Exercise & Hlth Sci, Loughborough LE11 3TU, Leics, England								8							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001038460000001	44	Article; Article		
J	Lee, Ye Hoon; Cho, Heetae								The moderating role of coping strategies in athletic coaches' psychological well-being in response to negative emotions								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	4			975	985		10.1177/17479541231153488			AUG 2023	2023	Negative emotions are known risk factors for physical health, psychological distress (e.g. hopelessness and feeling worthless), and mood disorders (e.g. depression and anxiety). Thus, it is important for athletic coaches, one of the most stressful occupations, to understand how to cope with their negative emotions. This study aimed to examine the moderating roles of four different coping strategies (emotion-focused, problem-focused, proactive, and emotive suppression) on the relationship between negative emotions and psychological well-being. Online survey data were collected from 162 athletic head coaches working in NCAA Division I through questionnaires that assessed the proposed variables. The results reported that proactive coping strategy and emotive suppression strategy negatively and significantly moderated the negative emotional-psychological well-being relationship. The findings of this study contribute to understanding the coping strategies that should be avoided in response to negative emotions among coaches. The results also highlight the need to consider adopting existing proactive coping intervention programs for coaches.		[Lee, Ye Hoon] Hankuk Univ Foreign Studies, Div Global Sport Ind, Yongin, Gyeonggi Do, South Korea; [Cho, Heetae] Sungkyunkwan Univ, Dept Sport Sci, Suwon, Gyeonggi Do, South Korea; [Cho, Heetae] Sungkyunkwan Univ, Dept Sport Sci, Suwon 05131, South Korea; [Cho, Heetae] 2066 Seobu Ro, Suwon 16419, Gyeonggi Do, South Korea; [Cho, Heetae] Sungkyunkwan Univ, Dept Sport Sci, Suwon 05131, South Korea; [Cho, Heetae] 2066 Seobu Ro, Suwon 16419, Gyeonggi Do, South Korea								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001028053200001	74	Article; Article		
J	Kavanagh, Ronan; Carling, Christoper; Malone, Shane; Di Michele, Rocco; Morgans, Ryland; Rhodes, David								'Bridging the gap': Differences in training and match physical load in 1st team and U23 players from the English Premier League								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	3			1011	1018		10.1177/17479541231186227			JUN 2024	2024	Objectives To explore the differences in training and match load in English Premier League (EPL) 1st team and U23 players. Identifying differences in relative and absolute physical outputs in relation to Maximal Aerobic Speed (MAS) and Maximal Sprint Speed (MSS) and how this informs monitoring and training prescription. Methods Two groups of full-time professional football players (1st team, n = 24 and U23 squad, n = 27) participated in this study. Training and match data were categorised into weekly blocks from Monday to Sunday. Each player's weekly total was then averaged to provide a squad average for each metric examined. Results Match analysis identified significantly higher distance covered above 120% MAS and distance between 120% MAS and 85% MSS (p = .04, effect size [ES] = 0.64; p < .01, ES = 1.13) for the 1st team. Distance above 85% MSS was significantly higher for the U23's (p < .01, ES = 2.92). Training and match data during one-match weeks displayed significantly higher differences in all high-speed variables for 1st team players compared to U23 players (p & LE; .05, ES = 0.82-1.78). Analysis of training and match data during a two-match week displayed no significant differences for all physical variables (p > .05). Conclusions Practitioners should consider the utilisation of individual relative thresholds to identify differences between physical performance variables during training and matches for 1st team and U23 players. Utilising these comparisons to inform training design, could maximise players physical development and potential for successful transition. Importantly, these findings relate to only one EPL club and therefore practitioners should assess their own players' relative training and game outputs.		[Kavanagh, Ronan; Rhodes, David] Univ Cent Lancashire, Football Performance Hub, Preston, England; [Carling, Christoper] French Inst Sport INSEP, FFF Res Ctr, Clairefontaine Nat Football Ctr, French Football Federat, Clairefontaine En Yveline, France; [Carling, Christoper] French Inst Sport INSEP, Lab Sport Expertise & Performance EA 7370, Paris, France; [Malone, Shane] Technol Univ Dublin, Human Performance Lab, Tallaght Campus, Tallaght, Ireland; [Malone, Shane] Univ Bologna, Dept Biomed & Neuromotor Sci, Tallaght Campus, Bologna, Italy; [Di Michele, Rocco] Univ Bologna, 4Department Biomed & Neuromotor Sci, Bologna, Italy; [Rhodes, David] Univ Cent Lancashire, Football Performance Hub, Preston PR1 2HE, England; [Rhodes, David] Univ Cent Lancashire, Football Performance Hub, Preston PR1 2HE, England								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001038769500001	38	Article; Article		
J	Ranaweera, Jayamini; Weaving, Dan; Zanin, Marco; Roe, Gregory								Evaluating the impact of a digitally implemented subjective standard on professional rugby union player management decision-making								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	3			1082	1092		10.1177/17479541231188065			JUN 2024	2024	Using a pre-post-test design, this study evaluated the impact of implementing a standard on the reliability of player management decision-making within a professional rugby union environment. Five practitioners from a High-Performance Unit (HPU) rated 22 instances of Global Positioning System (GPS)-based external training load information of 14 players across the 2021-2022 season. This rating was whether a peak/trough/normal exposure in load had occurred. The ratings were repeated at four time points (separated by 2 weeks) before (Pre(1), Pre(2)) and after (Post(1), Post(2)) implementing a consensus statement as a subjective standard (using a dashboard) developed previously within the same environment to identify peaks/troughs in player external training loads. Inter-rater agreement between individuals at each voting round was assessed using Light's Kappa, while pre-post-standard intra-rater agreement was determined from Cohen's Kappa (both with 95% confidence intervals). Changes to dashboard usability from implementing the standard were assessed by administering the System Usability Scale to 11 HPU staff at the four time points. Pre-standard moderate inter-rater agreement (Pre(1): 0.53 (0.36-0.69), Pre(2): 0.60 (0.42-0.77)) increased to almost perfect agreement (Post(1): 0.74 (0.57-0.89), Post(2): 0.90 (0.79-1)) post-standard. The intra-rater agreement of 2/5 participants was almost perfect post-standard, while it remained within substantial levels for the others. A linear mixed model (& chi;(2)(3) = 8.85, p = 0.03) illustrated a slight increase in dashboard usability after incorporating the standard (Pre(1): 84.09, Pre(2): 81.36; Post(1): 87.73, Post(2): 87.27). Overall, the results highlighted that the subjective standard enhanced reliability of practitioner agreement for the selected decision.		[Ranaweera, Jayamini; Weaving, Dan; Zanin, Marco; Roe, Gregory] Leeds Beckett Univ, Carnegie Appl Rugby Res CARR Ctr, Carnegie Sch Sport, Headingley Campus, Leeds LS6 3QS, England; [Ranaweera, Jayamini] St Marys Univ, Sch Sport Exercise & Appl Sci, London, England; [Roe, Gregory] Performance Dept Bath Rugby Football Club, Bath, England; [Ranaweera, Jayamini] Leeds Beckett Univ, Carnegie Appl Rugby Res CARR Ctr, Carnegie Sch Sport, Headingley Campus, Leeds LS6 3QS, England								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001037155300001	33	Article; Article		
J	Richardson, Travis; Nalbantis, Georgios; Pawlowski, Tim								Emotional Cues and the Demand for Televised Sports: Evidence from the UEFA Champions League								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				24	8			993	1025		10.1177/15270025231187067			DEC 2023	2023	This study provides first evidence on how belief dynamics are driving entertainment utility and consequently the demand for sports across markets by analyzing minute-by-minute audience data of UEFA Champions League (UCL) games televised in the UK and the Spanish market during a full (pre-COVID) cycle of broadcasting rights. Overall, we find that suspense and surprise are the main drivers of demand in both markets while shock only has marginal effects in the Spanish market. Interestingly, we find a combined impact of suspense and surprise in the UK market that is of similar magnitude as reported in a previous study for English Premier League matches in the UK. In the Spanish market, however, the combined impact is considerably larger.		[Richardson, Travis; Nalbantis, Georgios; Pawlowski, Tim] Univ Tubingen, Inst Sports Sci, Fac Econ & Social Sci, Wilhelmstr 124, D-72074 Tubingen, Germany; [Richardson, Travis] Univ Tubingen, Inst Sports Sci, Fac Econ & Social Sci, Wilhelmstr 124, D-72074 Tubingen, Germany								11							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001034228100001	42	Article; Article		
J	Kono, Yoshifumi; Deie, Masataka; Hirata, Kazuhiko; Asaeda, Makoto; Terai, Chiaki; Kimura, Hiroaki; Nakamae, Atsuo; Adachi, Nobuo								Influence of time from injury to surgery on knee biomechanics during walking in patients with anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	12			3112	3120		10.1080/14763141.2023.2236978			DEC 1 2024	2024	The pilot study aimed to determine whether the time from injury to surgery influences on postoperative knee biomechanics during walking in patients with anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction (ACLR). Thirty-two patients with unilateral ACLR (early, 10 patients; delayed, 22 patients) and 30 control subjects participated in this study. All examinations for patients with ACLR were performed preoperatively and at 12 months postoperatively and comprised passive knee joint laxity, knee muscle strength, and knee kinematics and kinetics during walking. At both time points, there were no significant differences in passive knee joint laxity and knee muscle strength between the early ACLR and delayed ACLR groups. Preoperatively, both the early ACLR and delayed ACLR patients exhibited significantly reduced knee extension movement from midstance to terminal stance compared to the control subjects. Moreover, the delayed ACLR patients exhibited significantly decreased peak external knee flexion moment compared to the control subjects. At 12 months postoperatively, the early ACLR patients showed significant improvement in knee extension movement from midstance to terminal stance compared to pre-ACLR, while the delayed ACLR patients did not show significant improvement in this knee extension movement. It can be concluded that early ACLR may be more beneficial to improve knee biomechanics during walking.		[Kono, Yoshifumi; Hirata, Kazuhiko; Asaeda, Makoto] Hiroshima Univ Hosp, Dept Clin Practice & Support, Div Rehabil, Hiroshima, Japan; [Deie, Masataka] Hiroshima City Hiroshima Citizens Hosp, Dept Orthoped Surg, Hiroshima, Japan; [Terai, Chiaki] Nagoya Univ Hosp, Dept Rehabil, Nagoya, Aichi, Japan; [Kimura, Hiroaki] Hiroshima Univ Hosp, Dept Rehabil, Hiroshima, Japan; [Nakamae, Atsuo; Adachi, Nobuo] Hiroshima Univ, Grad Sch Biomed & Hlth Sci, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Hiroshima, Japan; [Kono, Yoshifumi] Hiroshima Univ Hosp, Dept Clin Practice & Support, Div Rehabil, Hiroshima, Japan								3							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001032137200001	28	Article; Article		
J	Rodrigues, Guilherme da Silva; Noma, Isabella Harumi Yonehara; Noronha, Natalia Yumi; Watanabe, Ligia Moriguchi; Sobrinho, Andressa Crystine da Silva; de Lima, Joao Gabriel Ribeiro; Sae-Lee, Chanachai; Benjamim, Cicero Jonas Rodrigues; Nonino, Carla Barbosa; Bueno Jubuir, Carlos Roberto								Eight Weeks of Physical Training Decreases 2 Years of DNA Methylation Age of Sedentary Women								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				95	2			405	415		10.1080/02701367.2023.2228388			APR 2 2024	2024	Purpose: The acceleration of epigenetic age is a predictor of mortality and contributes to the increase in chronic diseases. Adherence to a healthy lifestyle is a strategy to reduce epigenetic age. The present study aimed to determine whether eight weeks of combined (aerobic and strength) training (CT) can influence the epigenetic age of women between 50 and 70 years old and the differences in sites and methylated regions. Methods: Eighteen women (AAR(Low): lower age acceleration residual, n = 10; AAR(High): higher age acceleration residual, n = 8) participated in a combined exercise training program (60 minutes, 3x a week) for eight weeks. DNA was extracted from whole blood using the salting out technique. DNA methylation was performed using the array technique (Illumina's Infinium Methylation BeadChip 850k). We used the DNA Methylation Age Calculator platform to calculate the biological epigenetic age. Two-way ANOVA followed by FISHER LSD posthoc was Applied, adopting p < .05. Results: After eight weeks of CT, there were no changes to the epigenetic age acceleration for the AAR(Low) group (PRE: -2.3 & PLUSMN; 3.2 to POST: -2.3 & PLUSMN; 3.6). However, the AAR(High) group significantly decreased the age acceleration (PRE: 3.6 & PLUSMN; 2.6 to POST: 2.2 & PLUSMN; 2.7) (group effect, p = .01; time effect, p = .31; group vs. time effect, p = .005). Conclusion: CT for eight weeks benefits the epigenetic clock of women with the most accelerated age.		[Rodrigues, Guilherme da Silva; Noma, Isabella Harumi Yonehara; Sobrinho, Andressa Crystine da Silva; de Lima, Joao Gabriel Ribeiro; Benjamim, Cicero Jonas Rodrigues; Bueno Jubuir, Carlos Roberto] Univ Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil; [Noronha, Natalia Yumi; Watanabe, Ligia Moriguchi; Nonino, Carla Barbosa] Ribeirao Preto Med Sch, Ribeirao Preto, SP, Brazil; [Sae-Lee, Chanachai] Mahidol Univ, Salaya, Thailand; [Rodrigues, Guilherme da Silva] Univ Sao Paulo, Ribeirao Preto Med Sch, Dept Internal Med, Ave Bandeirantes,3900 Campus USP, BR-14049900 Ribeirao Preto, Brazil; [Rodrigues, Guilherme da Silva] Univ Sao Paulo, Ribeirao Preto Med Sch, Dept Internal Med, Ave Bandeirantes,3900 Campus USP, BR-14049900 Ribeirao Preto, Brazil								10							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001029435000001	49	Article; Article		
J	Kennedy, Andrew; Dux, Paul E.; Mallett, Clifford J.								Development of the brief expertise scale for sports coaching								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	5			1381	1394		10.1177/17479541231188192			OCT 2023	2023	The methods used to assess sports coaching expertise vary considerably between studies. This variability limits the capacity for researchers to compare, contrast and replicate findings across the field. In this article, we describe research aimed at creating a self-report measure of sports coaching expertise. In the following sections, we discuss the core concepts and competencies associated with sports coaching expertise. We then outline the phases of development of the measure and provide the results of the exploratory (study 1) and confirmatory (study 2) analyses. The outcome of this research was the development of a brief 12-item 3-factor self-report measure of sports coaching expertise. The measure achieved a good fit to the data and was best captured by a bifactor S1-1 model with one general expertise factor and three specific factors: (a) experience and engagement, (b) knowledge and (c) skills and attributes. In discussing the outcomes of this research, we provide recommendations for the use of the measure and discuss areas of future refinement.		[Kennedy, Andrew; Mallett, Clifford J.] Univ Queensland, Sch Human Movement & Nutr Sci, St Lucia, Australia; [Dux, Paul E.] Univ Queensland, Sch Psychol, St Lucia, Australia; [Mallett, Clifford J.] Tech Univ Munich, Dept Sport & Hlth Sci, Munich, Germany; [Kennedy, Andrew] Univ Queensland, Sch Human Movement & Nutr Sci, St Lucia, Australia								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001033356200001	46	Article; Article		
J	Clavijo, Fabian Alberto Romero; Drews, Ricardo; Denardi, Renata Alvares; Travassos, Bruno; Correa, Umberto Cesar								Identification of football teams styles of play by cluster analysis								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	3			1019	1034		10.1177/17479541231186796			JUN 2024	2024	The aim of this study was to characterize performance patterns of attack and defence of football teams, and the inter-team's relation throughout the game. First and second leg of the Brazilian Cup Final 2018 Under-20 category were recorded using two video cameras. Three hundred twelve attacks and defences sequences in the two football matches were analyzed. All players and the ball were tracked throughout the matches, then notational and spatiotemporal variables were measured: attack duration, number of actions per attack, occupied area, team centroid, ratio between number of action and attack duration, total centroid trajectory, and ball displacement. Those variables were grouped using Ward's minimum variance method. The results showed that: (i) teams presented variated styles of play in attack and defence intra and intermatches; (ii) spatial variables such as positions and displacements contributed the most to separate the patterns; (iii) the interteams synchrony found throughout the game revealed different outcomes; and (iv) specific attacking patterns led to shoot to goal. We concluded that football teams vary their style of play within match and intermatches; spatial variables such as positions and displacements contributed the most to separate the patterns; and the interteam relation revealed synchrony throughout the game.		[Clavijo, Fabian Alberto Romero] Inst Natl Sport Quebec, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Clavijo, Fabian Alberto Romero] Bishops Univ, Sport Studies Dept, Sherbrooke, PQ, Canada; [Drews, Ricardo] Fed Univ Uberlandia UFU, Phys Educ & Physiotherapy Coll, Uberlandia, Brazil; [Denardi, Renata Alvares] Univ State Minas Gerais UEMG, Passos, Brazil; [Travassos, Bruno] Univ Beira Interior, Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev CIDESD, CreativeLab, Covilha, Portugal; [Correa, Umberto Cesar] Univ Sao Paulo, Sch Phys Educ & Sport, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Clavijo, Fabian Alberto Romero] Inst Natl Sport Quebec, Montreal, PQ, Canada								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001029947800001	45	Article; Article		
J	Delorme, Nicolas; Lefevre, Brice; Raffin, Valerie								Relative Age Effects and Self-Organized Sport Practices Among Adults								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				95	2			384	390		10.1080/02701367.2023.2222772			APR 2 2024	2024	Purpose: Given that previous research on relative age effects (RAEs) has only focused on organized sport, the aim of this exploratory study was to examine whether this phenomenon also existed among self-organized practitioners. In relation to that, a second aim was to know whether self-organized sport practices could be favored by late-born practitioners as a result of a strategic adaptation. Method(s): Representative sub-samples of 474 soccer players, 363 basketball players, 2,536 swimmers, 1,788 strength training practitioners, 1,873 petanque players, 973 table tennis players and 2,136 runners were analyzed. Results: The results did not show any significant RAEs, including in sport practices that are sensitive to this phenomenon such as soccer or basketball. The results did not show any significant overrepresentation of late-born people either. Conclusion: This study suggests that self-organized sport practices are not impacted by the RAEs. This finding is interesting because self-organized sport practice is the most important one in numbers.		[Delorme, Nicolas] Univ Bordeaux, Bordeaux, France; [Lefevre, Brice] Univ Claude Bernard Lyon 1, Villeurbanne, France; [Raffin, Valerie] Inst Natl Jeunesse & Educ Populaire, Paris, France; [Delorme, Nicolas] Univ Bordeaux, Lab Cultures Educ Soc LACES, 3 Ter Pl Victoire, F-33076 Bordeaux, France; [Delorme, Nicolas] Univ Bordeaux, Lab Cultures Educ Soc LACES, 3 Ter Pl Victoire, F-33076 Bordeaux, France								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001030181200001	46	Article; Article		
J	Tetreault, Emie; Fortin-Guichard, Daniel; McArthur, Jamie; Vigneault, Alain; Grondin, Simon								About the Predictive Value of a 3D Multiple Object Tracking Device for Talent Identification in Elite Ice Hockey Players								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				95	2			370	383		10.1080/02701367.2023.2216266			APR 2 2024	2024	Purpose: The aim of this study is to verify if a single session on the NeuroTracker has predictive value in talent identification in ice hockey. Methods: Thirty-five male ice hockey players (aged 16-20) from the highest Canadian competition level for that age group participated in the study. A battery of tests (attention, working memory, time reproduction, pattern recognition, temporal equivalence, technical ability, and decision-making) was administered to verify the relation between various cognitive abilities, on-ice performance, and the baseline score on the NeuroTracker, which is claimed to solicit multiple cognitive functions. On-ice performance indicators were game-related statistics: games played, points (mean per game), on-ice goals differential, and draft rank. Results: Results show that the baseline score on the NeuroTracker is not associated with draft ranking, nor is it able to predict which players will perform best based on game-related statistics. However, the NeuroTracker baseline score does correlate with various tests involving working memory and attention. Conclusion: Currently, NeuroTracker is not specific enough to allow talent identification among same-level elite athletes in ice hockey.		[Tetreault, Emie; Fortin-Guichard, Daniel; McArthur, Jamie; Grondin, Simon] Univ Laval, Quebec City, PQ, Canada; [Fortin-Guichard, Daniel] Vrije Univ Amsterdam, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Fortin-Guichard, Daniel] York Univ, Toronto, ON, Canada; [Vigneault, Alain] Alain Vigneault Consultants, Quebec City, PQ, Canada; [Tetreault, Emie] Univ Laval, Ecole Psychol, 2325 All bibliotheques, Quebec City, PQ G1V 0A6, Canada								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001029505600001	91	Article; Article		
J	Santos, Patrick Anderson; Aguiar, Samuel da Silva; Barbosa, Lucas Duarte Maciel Pinheiro Freire; Rosa, Thiago dos Santos; Sales, Marcelo Magalhaes; Maciel, Larissa Alves; Leite, Patricio Lopes de Araujo; Gutierrez, Sara Duarte; Minuzzi, Luciele Guerra; Sousa, Caio Victor; Lewis, John Eugene; Simoes, Herbert Gustavo								Relationship of Testosterone, LH, Estradiol, IGF-1, and SHBG with Physical Performance of Master Athletes								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				95	2			363	369		10.1080/02701367.2023.2212718			APR 2 2024	2024	Purpose: The aim of this study was to investigate and compare the levels of luteinizing hormone (LH), testosterone (T), estradiol (ES), sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG), and insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) in master sprint (MS) and master endurance (ME) athletes. Additionally, the possible associations between these hormones, body composition, and lipid profile with athletic performance (% of performance in relation to the current world record) were analyzed. Materials and Methods: The participants were all men: (i) 34 MS (51.0 & PLUSMN; 6.8 years); and (ii) 32 ME (51.7 & PLUSMN; 9.4 years). Student's t-tests for independent samples were performed to compare all variables between groups. Results: MS had a significantly higher (p = .008) average IGF-1 (154.78 & PLUSMN; 29.85 ng/mL) when compared to ME (129.92 & PLUSMN; 25.48 ng/mL). Performance was significantly correlated with IGF-1 (r = 0.424). The MS group had a moderately lower body fat than ME athletes (MS 12.54 & PLUSMN; 4.07 vs. ME 14.60 & PLUSMN; 4.12; p = .078; d = 0.503). Conclusions: Thus, strength/power training exercise/sport seems to be more beneficial for obtaining a higher IGF-1 compared to aerobic/distance exercise/sport. In addition, LH, T, ES, and SHBG were similar between the two groups of athletes and were comparable to the reference values of younger adults.		[Santos, Patrick Anderson; Barbosa, Lucas Duarte Maciel Pinheiro Freire; Rosa, Thiago dos Santos; Maciel, Larissa Alves; Leite, Patricio Lopes de Araujo; Gutierrez, Sara Duarte; Simoes, Herbert Gustavo] Univ Catolica Brasilia, Brasilia, Brazil; [Aguiar, Samuel da Silva] UDF Univ Ctr, Brasilia, Brazil; [Sales, Marcelo Magalhaes] Goias State Univ, Anapolis, Brazil; [Minuzzi, Luciele Guerra] Sao Paulo State Univ, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Sousa, Caio Victor] Northeastern Univ, Boston, MA USA; [Lewis, John Eugene] Loyola Marymount Univ, Los Angeles, CA USA; [Maciel, Larissa Alves; Simoes, Herbert Gustavo] Univ Catolica Brasilia, Dept Phys Educ, QS07 LT01 S-N Sala G116, BR-72030170 Brasilia, DF, Brazil; [Maciel, Larissa Alves; Simoes, Herbert Gustavo] Univ Catolica Brasilia, Dept Phys Educ, QS07 LT01 S-N Sala G116, BR-72030170 Brasilia, DF, Brazil								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001033267300001	46	Article; Article		
J	Cornwell, T. Bettina; Pappu, Ravi; Setten, Eric								Sport consumers: perceiving and enjoying danger in American football								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				24	5			853	870		10.1108/IJSMS-11-2022-0195			NOV 2 2023	2023	PurposeThe purpose of this paper is to better understand how consumers perceive and process danger in American football and why they continue to enjoy watching the sport given society's increased understanding of the danger to the athletes.Design/methodology/approachTwo studies, one lab study with eye-tracking (N = 152) and one survey study (N = 444), were conducted. Study 1 examines how the perception of danger associated with football mediates the relationship between exposure to violent or nonviolent video clips and enjoyment of watching video clips. Study 2 examines how device type and screen resolution influence perceptions of danger associated with football.FindingsFindings support the role that perceived danger plays in sport viewing enjoyment. The results are in keeping with reversal theory where individuals have a protective frame that allows them to experience negative emotions (e.g. anxiety) as positive (e.g. excitement). The research also shows that for larger devices, the perception of danger associated with football is significantly influenced by high resolution.Social implicationsThe work, through considering the way consumers experience sport, questions societal tolerance for entertainment that is dangerous to sport participants.Originality/valueThe findings of this work corroborate past research that has found that consumers of sport do enjoy danger for athletes in their viewing experience. Reversal theory is utilized to explain how negative emotions are experienced as positive. The work extends past findings by showing that the characteristics of the device used (large size and high resolution) during sport viewing influence perceptions of danger.		[Cornwell, T. Bettina] Univ Oregon, Eugene, OR 97403 USA; [Pappu, Ravi] Univ Queensland, UQ Business Sch, Brisbane, Australia; [Setten, Eric] Calif State Univ Fullerton, Fullerton, CA USA; [Cornwell, T. Bettina] Univ Oregon, Eugene, OR 97403 USA								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001026400900001	62	Article; Article		
J	Oh, Taeyeon; Lee, Seomgyun; Jang, Hayley								Outcome Uncertainty and ESports Viewership: The Case of Overwatch League								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				24	8			971	992		10.1177/15270025231187106			DEC 2023	2023	The uncertainty of outcome hypothesis (UOH) explains the consumption determinants of sports fans in professional sporting events. However, only limited studies exist in the esports field, and the relationship between UOH and spectatorship in esports is still unclear. This study examined the UOH in esports by analyzing the number of viewers of an esports league on an internet-based streaming platform (Twitch). We measured within-game and ex-ante expected game uncertainty and estimated their effects on the number of real-time viewers. The results show that within-game uncertainty significantly impacts the number of viewers, but ex-ante expected game uncertainty did not.		[Oh, Taeyeon] aSSIST Univ, Seoul AI Sch, Seoul, South Korea; [Lee, Seomgyun] Univ Mississippi, Dept Hlth Exercise Sci & Recreat Management, University Pk, MS USA; [Jang, Hayley] Sangji Univ, Dept Econ, 83 Sangjidae Gil, Wonju 26339, Gangwon Do, South Korea; [Jang, Hayley] Sangji Univ, Dept Econ, 83 Sangjidae Gil, Wonju 26339, Gangwon Do, South Korea								2							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001027182500001	37	Article; Article		
J	Nishiumi, Daichi; Hirose, Norikazu								Do braking and amortisation forces in countermovement jumps contribute to jump height?								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	12			3121	3130		10.1080/14763141.2023.2232340			DEC 1 2024	2024	Increasing the braking and amortisation forces during a countermovement jump (CMJ) increases the early-half concentric mean force (EMF) which can enhance muscle contraction velocity in the latter half of the concentric phase. This may negatively affect exertion force, owing to the force-velocity relationship and not increase the jump height. This study aimed to investigate the associations of the braking and amortisation forces during the CMJ with the latter-half concentric mean force (LMF). Twenty-seven men (age: 20 & PLUSMN; 1 years, body mass: 76.2 & PLUSMN; 8.3 kg, height: 173.5 & PLUSMN; 4.7 cm) with training experience who performed body mass CMJs and five loaded CMJs were included. We calculated the braking rate of force development (B-RFD), amortisation force (AmF), EMF, and LMF, as well as the theoretical maximum force (F0) and velocity (V0) of the force-velocity profile. Correlation analyses per variable identified significant negative correlations of B-RFD and AmF with the LMF, but not of B-RFD and AmF with the jump height. Additionally, V0 was significantly correlated with the LMF. Therefore, increasing the initial concentric force by increasing the braking and amortisation forces may not contribute to jump height owing to a decrease in the latter-half concentric force due to the force-velocity relationship.		[Nishiumi, Daichi] Waseda Univ, Grad Sch Sport Sci, Saitama, Japan; [Hirose, Norikazu] Waseda Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Saitama, Japan; [Hirose, Norikazu] Waseda Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Saitama, Japan								4							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001022765000001	29	Article; Article		
J	McLaren, Colin D.; Shanmugaratnam, Achuthan; Bruner, Mark W.								Peer-initiated motivational climate, mental health and adherence in competitive youth sport								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	2			851	856		10.1177/17479541231179879			APR 2024	2024	Through interactions with important social agents (coaches, parents, and peers), youth athletes will infer that being successful in sport falls somewhere along the continuum between (a) improvement and hard work and (b) winning at all costs. The environment created as a result of these interactions has important implications for athlete mental health and future sport participation. This study examined the relationships between peer-initiated motivational climate, athlete wellbeing, and intention to return to the team. Youth athletes (N = 130; M-age = 13.45 years) from nine competitive ice hockey teams completed a questionnaire near the end of season. Using mixed-effects linear modeling, findings revealed that a task-related peer climate significantly predicted wellbeing (& beta; = 0.32, 95% CI [0.18, 0.47]) and intention to return (& beta; = 0.43, 95% CI [0.17, 0.68]), whereas an ego-related peer climate was not significantly related to wellbeing (& beta; = 0.10, 95% CI [-0.07, 0.26]) or intentions to return (& beta; = -0.29, 95% CI [-0.58, 0.01]).		[McLaren, Colin D.] Cape Breton Univ, Dept Experiential Studies Community & Sport, Sydney, NS, Canada; [Shanmugaratnam, Achuthan; Bruner, Mark W.] Nipissing Univ, Sch Phys & Hlth Educ, North Bay, ON, Canada; [McLaren, Colin D.] Cape Breton Univ, Dept Experiential Studies Community & Sport, Sydney, NS, Canada								8							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001023817400001	27	Article; Article		
J	Davies, Lauren; Saad, Tess; Smith, Michelle D.								There is low adoption of injury prevention programs in community netball								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	3			1105	1111		10.1177/17479541231185917			JUN 2024	2024	Although neuromuscular injury prevention programs decrease injuries, implementation is challenging. Netball Australia developed the Netball KNEE program - a netball-specific warm-up program designed for netball coaches, players and support staff to enhance movement efficiency and prevent injury. It contains exercises for warm-up/footwork, strength, balance/landing and agility. This study aimed to explore the Reach, perceived Effectiveness, Adoption, Implementation and intended Maintenance of the Netball KNEE program in community netball. Community netball coaches (n = 257) from 52 community netball clubs completed an online survey on their familiarity with the KNEE program (Reach), satisfaction and perceived effectiveness (Effectiveness), use of the program in training (Adoption), use of specific program components and provision of feedback (Implementation) and intended future use of the program (Maintenance). 66.5% of coaches who responded to the survey were familiar with the KNEE program (Reach), and 43.0% of coaches reported using the program weekly (Adoption). Most coaches who were familiar with the program were satisfied with it (87.2%) and perceived it to be effective in reducing injuries (77.0%) (perceived Effectiveness). Only 58.7% of the 155 of coaches who adopted the program reported using all activity categories (warm up/footwork, strength, balance/landing and agility) (Implementation). Warm up/footwork activities were reported to be used most commonly (by 99.4% of coaches). Reported provision of feedback on program key principles (e.g., take off, landing, deceleration, changing direction) was variable (54.2%-97.4%) (Implementation). Study findings suggest the need for strategies to improve the reach, adoption and implementation of the KNEE program in community netball.		[Davies, Lauren; Saad, Tess; Smith, Michelle D.] Univ Queensland, Sch Hlth & Rehabil Sci, Physiotherapy, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [Smith, Michelle D.] Univ Queensland, Sch Hlth & Rehabil Sci, Brisbane, Qld 4072, Australia; [Smith, Michelle D.] Univ Queensland, Sch Hlth & Rehabil Sci, Brisbane, Qld 4072, Australia								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001020616800001	31	Article; Article		
J	Wall, Julia; McGowan, Emer; Meehan, William; Wilson, Fiona								"Back pain is part of sport ... I'm just gonna have to live with it": Exploring the lived experience of sport-related low back pain in adolescent athletes ...								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				62				71	78		10.1016/j.ptsp.2023.05.005			JUL 2023	2023	Objectives: To examine the lived experience of adolescent athletes reporting an episode of sport-related low back pain (LBP), including effects on daily life, relationships with parent/guardians, teammates, and coaches with relation to LBP, experiences of management/treatment, and understanding of LBP. Design: Qualitative interviewing using online video conferencing platforms. Participants: Athletes aged 10-19 years old who experienced low back pain within the year prior to interviewing. Main outcome measures: Interview transcripts, Modified Oswestry Disability Index, and International Physical Activity Questionnaire. Results: Three main themes were developed 1) The culture of normalising LBP in sport negates safe-guarding efforts aimed at protecting adolescent athletes against injury and pain 2) LBP changes how athletes are perceived and perceive themselves 3) LBP has broad effects on the well-being of adolescent athletes. Conclusions: The lived experience of LBP for adolescent athletes is impacted by the culture of tolerance of pain and injury in sport. Further steps should be taken to implement safeguarding measures in a way that adequately protects adolescent athletes who experience pain.& COPY; 2023 Published by Elsevier Ltd.		[Wall, Julia; Wilson, Fiona] Trinity Coll Dublin, Sch Med, Discipline Physiotherapy, Dublin, Ireland; [McGowan, Emer] Trinity Coll Dublin, Fac Hlth Sci, Sch Med, Dublin, Ireland; [Meehan, William] Harvard Med Sch, Boston Childrens Hosp, Micheli Ctr Sports Injury Prevent, Div Sports Med, Boston, MA USA; [Wall, Julia] Trinity Coll Dublin, Discipline Physiotherapy, Dublin, Ireland; [Wall, Julia] Trinity Coll Dublin, Discipline Physiotherapy, Dublin, Ireland								6							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001037393000001	61	Article; Article		
J	Grundstein, Andrew; Cooper, Earl; Hosokawa, Yuri								Wet bulb globe temperature variability and its implications on heat stress monitoring								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	3			1196	1206		10.1177/17479541231186146			JUN 2024	2024	The wet bulb globe temperature (WBGT) is widely used in athletics for assessing heat stress. Sports governing bodies provide a wide variety of recommendations on how often to take WBGT measurements during activities like practices and competitions. This can leave coaching staff and other sports medicine personnel in a quandary as to what is the "best practice." Our study is the first to use a large dataset to quantify the variability of WBGT within practice and competition sessions, and to identify the impact of using different measurement rates on the WBGT. The study leverages 6 years of data from thousands of American football practice and competition sessions from across Georgia, USA. We observed that, on average, WBGTs are coolest in the morning (26.67 & DEG;C) and evening (24.84 & DEG;C), and hottest in the midday (30.23 & DEG;C) and afternoon (27.21 & DEG;C). The variability within sessions tended to be greater for morning, midday, and afternoon than evenings, with session standard deviations of 0.96 & DEG;C to 1.27 & DEG;C and ranges of 2.67 & DEG;C to 3.55 & DEG;C when controlling for duration. WBGTs also tended to increase over time in morning sessions and decrease over time during afternoon and evening sessions. These changes are clinically important. We found that Georgia High School Association (GHSA) WBGT activity modification categories often changed during sessions, especially in the morning, midday, and afternoon where a change in GHSA category of & GE;1 occurred in 57% to 76% of sessions. Considering this variability, our results indicate that more frequent measurements better capture maximum WBGT values over a session and reduce the likelihood of misclassifying activity modification.		[Grundstein, Andrew] Univ Georgia, Dept Geog, Athens, GA USA; [Cooper, Earl] Univ Georgia, Dept Kinesiol, Athens, GA USA; [Hosokawa, Yuri] Waseda Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Saitama, Japan; [Grundstein, Andrew] Univ Georgia, Dept Geog, Athens, GA 30602 USA; [Grundstein, Andrew] Univ Georgia, Dept Geog, Athens, GA 30602 USA								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001023193300001	44	Article; Article		
J	Psycharakis, Stelios G.; Coleman, Simon G. S.								Which Phases of the Stroke Cycle Are Propulsive in Front Crawl Swimming?								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				95	2			325	333		10.1080/02701367.2023.2203724			APR 2 2024	2024	Purpose: The aim of this study was fourfold: (1) to quantify acceleration, velocity, and phase overlap for each phase of the stroke cycle (SC) during 200 m front crawl; (2) for each variable, to identify any differences between the four SC phases; (3) to investigate changes in variables during the 200 m; (4) to explore any association between performance and each variable. Methods: Ten swimmers performed a 200 m maximum swim. Four SCs were analyzed, one for each 50 m, using three-dimensional methods. Each SC was split into four phases: entry, pull, push, and recovery. Center of mass (CM) acceleration; maximum, minimum, and average CM velocity; phase duration, and, overlap of a phase of one arm with each phase of the opposite arm were calculated. Results and Conclusion: Phase velocities were positively correlated with performance and decreased during the 200 m. The acceleration data showed high within and between-swimmer variability. When the entry of one arm overlapped with the pull, and sometimes push, phase of the opposite arm, it was propulsive for the whole body. The pull was the slowest phase and overlapped predominantly with the opposite arm's recovery. The push phase was often propulsive for the whole body, regardless of the overlaps with the other arm, and together with the entry were the fastest phases. The recovery of each arm was mostly resistive for the whole body, except the short period of overlap with the opposite arm's push phase.		[Psycharakis, Stelios G.; Coleman, Simon G. S.] Univ Edinburgh, Edinburgh, Scotland; [Psycharakis, Stelios G.] Univ Edinburgh, St Leonards Land,Holyrood Rd, Edinburgh EH8 8AQ, Scotland; [Psycharakis, Stelios G.] Univ Edinburgh, St Leonards Land,Holyrood Rd, Edinburgh EH8 8AQ, Scotland								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001024665500001	29	Article; Article		
J	Dubash, Soli D.; Schafer, Markus H.								Social Network Negativity and Physical Activity: New Longitudinal Evidence for Young and Older Adults 2015-2018								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				95	2			334	341		10.1080/02701367.2023.2205910			APR 2 2024	2024	Purpose: Physical activity (PA) has considerable public health benefits. Positive aspects of the interpersonal environment are known to affect PA, yet few studies have investigated whether negative dimensions also influence PA. This study examines the link between changing social network negativity and PA, net of stable confounding characteristics of persons and their environments. Method: Polling respondents in the San Francisco Bay Area over three waves (2015-2018), the UCNets project provides a panel study of social networks and health for two cohorts of adults. Respondents were recruited through stratified random address sampling, and supplemental sampling was conducted through Facebook advertising and referral. With weights, the sample is approximately representative of Californians aged 21-30 and 50-70. Personal social networks were measured using multiple name-generating questions. Fixed effects ordered logistic regression models provide parameter estimates. Results: Younger adults experience significant decreases in PA when network negativity increases, while changes in other network characteristics (e.g. support, size) did not significantly predict changes in PA. No corresponding association was found for older adults. Results are net of baseline covariate levels, stable social and individual differences, and select time-varying characteristics of persons and their environments. Conclusion: Leveraging longitudinal data from two cohorts of adults, this study extends understanding on interpersonal environments and PA by considering the social costs embedded in social networks. This is the first study to investigate how changes in network negativity pattern PA change. Interventions that help young adults resolve or manage interpersonal conflicts may have the benefit of helping to promote healthy lifestyle choices.		[Dubash, Soli D.] Univ Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada; [Schafer, Markus H.] Baylor Univ, Waco, TX USA; [Dubash, Soli D.] Univ Toronto, Dept Sociol, Toronto, ON M5S 2J4, Canada								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001015427800001	89	Article; Article		
J	de Lima, Tiago R.; Silva, Diego A. S.								Muscle Strength Indexes and Its Association With Cardiometabolic Risk Factors in Adolescents: An Allometric Approach								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				95	1			289	302		10.1080/02701367.2023.2197024			JAN 2 2024	2024	Background and aims: Muscle strength (MS) has been associated with better cardiometabolic health prognosis. However, the result for the beneficial relationship seems to be dependent on the influence of body size in determining MS levels. We investigate the association between allometric MS indexes and its association with cardiometabolic risk factors in adolescents. Methods: It was a cross-sectional study comprising 351 adolescents (male: 44.4%; age range 14-19 years) from Southern Brazil. MS was assessed by handgrip strength and three different allometric approaches were adopted: 1) MS index based on theoretical allometric exponent; 2) MS index including body mass and height; 3) MS index including fat-free mass and height. Obesity, high blood pressure, dyslipidemia, glucose imbalance and high-sensitivity C-reactive protein were investigated as individual factors or as combinations (either as combinations of components - presence of two adverse conditions, or number of components present in an individual - 0, 1, 2, 3+ cardiometabolic risk factors). Logistic and multinomial logistic regression analyses adjusted for confounding factors were used. The statistical significance adopted was 5%. Results: MS index based on theoretical allometric exponent was associated with lower likelihood (OR: 0.54; 95% CI: 0.28 - 0.89) for the presence of three or more cardiometabolic risk factors in the same individual. Conclusion: This study suggests that MS index based on the theoretical allometric exponent can be superior to allometric MS indexes that included body mass and height, or fat-free mass and height in representing the presence of high number of cardiometabolic risk factors in adolescents.		[de Lima, Tiago R.; Silva, Diego A. S.] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Florianopolis, Brazil; [de Lima, Tiago R.] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Res Ctr Kinanthropometry & Human Performance, Trinity Univ Campus, BR-88010970 Florianopolis, SC, Brazil; [de Lima, Tiago R.] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Res Ctr Kinanthropometry & Human Performance, Trinity Univ Campus, BR-88010970 Florianopolis, SC, Brazil								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001017573300001	62	Article; Article		
J	Morral Yepes, Monica; Gonzalo-Skok, Oliver; Valdes, Bruno Fernandez; Bishop, Chris; Tuya, Silvia; Moras Feliu, Gerard								Assessment of movement variability and time in a football reactive agility task depending on constraints								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	4			1079	1095		10.1080/14763141.2023.2214533			APR 3 2025	2025	The aims of this study were to (1) analyse time and movement variability in a football (soccer) agility task performed with or without ball, both in the following situations a) reacting to the movement of two players with a single exit gate (R1), b) reacting to the movement of one player with two possible exit gates (R2) and c) not reacting to a stimulus; and, (2) analyse the relationship between time and movement variability. Seventeen semi-professional female football players participated in the study. Acceleration was measured using an inertial measurement unit attached to each player through an elastic belt close to the sacrum. Entropy was calculated from the acceleration signal and time was extracted using a magnet-based timing system. Movement variability was reduced whereas time increased when adding the ball and/or the reaction, finding no differences between R1 and R2. A moderate negative correlation was found between time and movement variability (r = -0.56, p < 0.01). Our findings demonstrate that increasing the difficulty and/or the amount of information from the environment, decreased movement variability and increased the time. The measurement of movement variability in addition to time in an agility task can be used to determine the mastery level of players.		[Morral Yepes, Monica; Tuya, Silvia; Moras Feliu, Gerard] Univ Barcelona UB, INEFC, Dept Sports Performance, Barcelona, Spain; [Morral Yepes, Monica; Valdes, Bruno Fernandez] Univ Pompeu Fabra, Dept Hlth Sci, Res Grp Technol Appl High Performance & Hlth, TecnoCampus, Barcelona, Spain; [Gonzalo-Skok, Oliver] Univ Loyola Andalucia, Dept Commun & Educ, Seville, Spain; [Bishop, Chris] Middlesex Univ, London Sport Inst, Sch Sci & Technol, London, England; [Moras Feliu, Gerard] Univ Barcelona UB, INEFC, Dept Sports Performance, Barcelona, Spain								5							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001013432700001	62	Article; Article		
J	Lee, Hyunwook; Oh, Minsub; Han, Seunguk; Hopkins, J. Ty								Unexpected inversion perturbation during a single-leg landing in patients with chronic ankle instability								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	5			1263	1277		10.1080/14763141.2023.2226649			MAY 4 2025	2025	It remains unclear how unexpected perturbations during single-leg landings affect lower extremity kinematics and muscle activations in patients with chronic ankle instability (CAI). The purpose of this study was to identify the differences in lower extremity movement patterns among CAI subjects, copers, and healthy controls. Sixty-six people including 22 CAI subjects, 22 copers, and 22 healthy controls volunteered to participate in the study. Lower extremity joint kinematics and EMG activations from 200-ms pre to 200-ms post the initial contact during unexpected tilted landings were measured. Functional data analysis was used to evaluate between-group differences for outcome measures. Relative to copers and healthy controls, CAI subjects showed more inversion from 40-ms to 200-ms after initial contact. Relative to healthy controls, CAI subjects and copers showed more dorsiflexion. Relative to healthy controls, CAI subjects and copers showed more muscle activation in tibialis anterior and peroneus longus, respectively. In conclusion, CAI subjects demonstrated greater inversion angles and muscle activation before initial contact compared to LAS copers and healthy controls. This suggests that CAI subjects and copers prepare for their landing with protective movements, but the prepared movements shown by CAI subjects may be insufficient to reduce risk of recurrent injury.		[Lee, Hyunwook; Oh, Minsub; Han, Seunguk; Hopkins, J. Ty] Brigham Young Univ, Dept Exercise Sci, Provo, UT 84602 USA; [Han, Seunguk] Brigham Young Univ, Dept Exercise Sci, Provo, UT 84602 USA								38							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001011737700001	37	Article; Article		
J	Arroyo, Ruben; Alsasua, Roberto; Arana, Javier; Lapresa, Daniel; Anguera, M. Teresa								Match analysis in wheelchair basketball: An observational analysis of the best team in the world (USA) in the 2020 Paralympic Games								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	3			1112	1122		10.1177/17479541231181616			JUN 2024	2024	This work shows the possibilities that observational analysis can offer to match analysis in Wheelchair Basketball, outlined in a study of the sequences that end in a shot, in the men's team considered to be the best in the world (USA), in the Tokyo Paralympic Games 2020. Data recording and coding the 527 sequences that end in a shot was carried out via the LINCE software, and inter-rater reliability guaranteed using Cohen's Kappa coefficient. Two diachronic behaviour analysis techniques - lag sequential analysis and T-pattern detection - were applied complementarily, thus allowing us to characterise effective and ineffective sequences. Effective behaviours are highlighted as being those which incorporate a final reception and shot by players with less functional limitation; or those in which the shot is made from the paint. Ineffective behaviours are those carried out by players with greater functional difficulty; or those which end in shots made from the offensive zone and external offensive zone.		[Arroyo, Ruben] Univ Burgos, Dept Educ Sci, Burgos, Spain; [Arroyo, Ruben] Pontifical Univ Salamanca, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Salamanca, Spain; [Alsasua, Roberto; Arana, Javier; Lapresa, Daniel] Univ La Rioja, Dept Educ Sci, Logrono, Spain; [Anguera, M. Teresa] Univ Barcelona, Inst Brain Cognit & Behav, Fac Psychol, Barcelona, Spain; [Lapresa, Daniel] Univ La Rioja, Edificio Vives,C Luis Ulloa S N, Logrono 26004, La Rioja, Spain; [Lapresa, Daniel] Univ La Rioja, Edificio Vives,C Luis Ulloa S N, Logrono 26004, La Rioja, Spain								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001013804900001	51	Article; Article		
J	Arima, Satoshi; Maeda, Noriaki; Oda, Sakura; Esaki, Hinata; Tamura, Yuki; Komiya, Makoto; Urabe, Yukio								Acute Effects of Selective Strength Exercise on the Peroneus Longus and Brevis								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				22	3			397	405		10.52082/jssm.2023.397			SEP 2023	2023	The peroneus muscles are muscles that mainly act in ankle eversion and can be divided into PL and PB, which have different but important roles in foot and ankle functions. Therefore, PL and PB dysfunction can lead to foot and ankle issues, making. selective strength exercise necessary. This study aimed to identify the effect of two different exercise techniques on PL and PB morphologies. Two interventions were performed on separate days: the PL intervention, in which a Thera-Band((R)) was placed on the ball of the foot and pushed out from the contact point, and the PB intervention, in which the Thera-Band((R)) was pulled from the base of the fifth metatarsal. Cross-sectional area (CSA) and thickness of the peroneus muscles at 25% (showing the PL morphology) and 75% (showing the PB morphology) proximal to the line connecting the fibular head and lateral malleolus, as well as ankle strength was measured before and immediately after the interventions and at 10, 20, and 30 min later. A repeated-measures two-way analysis of variance was conducted to identify differences in the effects of the interventions on the PL and PB. Main and interaction effects on CSA, thickness, and ankle strength, with a significant increase in CSA and thickness in the proximal 25% in the PL intervention and the distal 75% in the PB intervention immediately after implementation, were observed (p < 0.05). The transient increase in muscle volume due to edema immediately after exercise indicates the acute effect of exercise. The CSA and thickness of the proximal 25% in the PL intervention and the distal 75% in the PB intervention increased immediately after the intervention, indicating that these interventions can be used to selectively exercise the PL and PB.		[Arima, Satoshi; Maeda, Noriaki; Oda, Sakura; Esaki, Hinata; Tamura, Yuki; Komiya, Makoto; Urabe, Yukio] Hiroshima Univ, Dept Sports Rehabil, Grad Sch Biomed & Hlth Sci, 1-2-3 Kasumi,Minami Ku, Hiroshima 7348553, Japan; [Arima, Satoshi] Hiroshima Univ, Dept Sports Rehabil, Grad Sch Biomed & Hlth Sci, 1-2-3 Kasumi,Minami Ku, Hiroshima 7348553, Japan								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:001011527200001	26	Article; Article		
J	Barbosa, Augusto C.; Araujo, Leonardo Tomasello; Leis, Leonardo Vecchi; Lourenco, Thiago Fernando; Barroso, Renato; Gonjo, Tomohiro; Paolucci, Leopoldo A.; Olstad, Bjorn H.; Andrade, Andre G. P.								The gold rush in para swimming: changes in the speed curve of a visually impaired world and paralympic champion - a case study								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	4			1115	1128		10.1080/14763141.2023.2221680			APR 3 2025	2025	This case study examined the association between 50 m freestyle and speed curve parameters of a world-class Paralympic swimmer and analysed the changes in speed curves and their frequency components across her performance levels. From 2018 to 2021, a visually impaired female swimmer (26.59 s in 50 m freestyle, S12 class) underwent 22 tests to obtain instantaneous speed synchronised with video recording. She regularly performed 50 m freestyle in competitions and time trials. The fast Fourier transformation method converted the speed signal into frequency domains and determined the relative contribution of the harmonics with two maxima and minima (H2, arms actions) and six maxima and minima (H6, legs actions). The functional paired t-test compared the speed curves at the beginning (PRE) and end (POST) of the analysed period. The 50 m freestyle time correlated with average speed (r = -0.50, p = 0.02). The contribution of H6 increased in the first year and remained large, whereas the contribution of H2 was lower throughout the whole period. POST was faster than PRE in five moments that coincide with the downward leg kick moments. These changes allowed her to stay longer at the upper part of the curve and improve performance over time.		[Barbosa, Augusto C.; Leis, Leonardo Vecchi] Meazure Sport Sci, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Barbosa, Augusto C.; Araujo, Leonardo Tomasello; Leis, Leonardo Vecchi; Lourenco, Thiago Fernando] Brazilian Paralymp Comm, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Barbosa, Augusto C.; Paolucci, Leopoldo A.; Andrade, Andre G. P.] Univ Fed Minas Gerais, Sch Phys Educ Physiotherapy & Occupat Therapy, Belo Horizonte, Brazil; [Barroso, Renato] Univ Estadual Campinas, Dept Sport Sci, Campinas, Brazil; [Gonjo, Tomohiro] Bournemouth Univ, Dept Rehabil & Sport Sci, Poole, England; [Olstad, Bjorn H.] Norwegian Sch Sport Sci, Dept Phys Performance, Oslo, Norway; [Barbosa, Augusto C.] Meazure Sport Sci, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Barbosa, Augusto C.] Brazilian Paralymp Comm, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Barbosa, Augusto C.] Univ Fed Minas Gerais, Sch Phys Educ Physiotherapy & Occupat Therapy, Belo Horizonte, Brazil								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001008636800001	29	Article; Article		
J	de Campos, Camila Machado; de Viveiro, Larissa Alamino Pereira; Busse, Alexandre Leopold; Ferdinando, Douglas Cerqueira; Jacob Filho, Wilson; Lange, Belinda; Pompeu, Jose Eduardo								Effectiveness of Multimodal Training Compared to a Uni-Modal Walking Intervention on Postural Control, Strength, Gait Speed and Flexibility in Community-Dwelling Older Adults								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				95	1			263	271		10.1080/02701367.2023.2193251			JAN 2 2024	2024	Background: Multimodal training may induce positive effects in different physical domains. Compared to unimodal training, multimodal training allows similar effect sizes at lower overall training volumes. Studies are needed to investigate the potential value of multimodal training with systematic training, especially compared to other exercise-based interventions. This study aimed to compare the effects of a multimodal training with an outdoor walking program, on postural control, muscle strength, and flexibility in community-dwelling older adults. Methods: This study is a pragmatic controlled clinical trial. We compared two real community exercise groups: a multimodal group (n = 53) and an outdoor, overground walking group (n = 45). Both groups participated in 32 sessions of training, twice a week, over 16 weeks. Participants were evaluated using the Mini-Balance Evaluation Systems Test (Mini-BESTest), Handgrip, 5-Times Sit-to-Stand Test, 3-meter Gait Speed Test, and Sit and Reach Test. Results: There was an interaction effect between evaluation and group in the Mini- BESTest with difference between pre and post-intervention only in multimodal group. Regarding gait speed, there was an interaction effect between evaluation and group with difference between pre and post-intervention only in the walking group. In the Sit and Reach Test: there was interaction effect between evaluation and group with difference between pre and post-intervention only in the walking group. Conclusion: The multimodal training improved postural control, while an outdoor walking program improved gait speed and flexibility. Both interventions improved muscle strength without between-group differences.		[de Campos, Camila Machado; de Viveiro, Larissa Alamino Pereira; Busse, Alexandre Leopold; Ferdinando, Douglas Cerqueira; Jacob Filho, Wilson; Pompeu, Jose Eduardo] Univ Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Lange, Belinda] Flinders Univ S Australia, Adelaide, Australia; [de Campos, Camila Machado] Univ Sao Paulo, Sch Med, 51 Cipotanea St, BR-05360160 Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil; [de Campos, Camila Machado] Univ Sao Paulo, Sch Med, 51 Cipotanea St, BR-05360160 Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001007066800001	44	Article; Article		
J	Helme, Mark; Tee, Jason; Emmonds, Stacey; Low, Chris								The associations between unilateral leg strength, asymmetry and injury in sub-elite Rugby League players								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				62				58	64		10.1016/j.ptsp.2023.05.003			JUL 2023	2023	Objectives: The aim of this study was to analyse the relationship between unilateral leg strength, asso-ciated asymmetries and the injuries suffered by sub-elite Rugby League (RL) players in one competitive season. Design: A prospective cohort design was used. Method: Unilateral leg strength was measured using the rear foot elevated split squat five repetition maximum test. Injuries were recorded using the Orchard classification system and were used to quantify relative risk (RR), mean severity, burden, player availability and survival time. Results: No measures of leg strength were related to RR, relative leg strength was found to have a sig-nificant, but not meaningful correlation with total time lost to lower body injury, lower body injury burden and lower body injury survival time. Conclusions: The data from the current study indicates a possible positive effect of increasing relative leg strength for injury outcomes in sub-elite RL players. This supports a heuristic that multi-joint lower body strength training for RL players has a potential dual effect of enhancing physical performance and reducing injury time loss, with minimal risk of harm. & COPY; 2023 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).		[Helme, Mark; Tee, Jason; Emmonds, Stacey; Low, Chris] Leeds Beckett Univ, Res Ctr Sports Coaching, Leeds, England; [Helme, Mark; Tee, Jason; Emmonds, Stacey] Leeds Beckett Univ, Carnegie Appl Rugby Res Ctr, Leeds, England; [Helme, Mark] Leeds Beckett Univ, Cavendish 116,Headingley Campus, Leeds LS6 3QS, England; [Helme, Mark] Leeds Beckett Univ, Cavendish 116,Headingley Campus, Leeds LS6 3QS, England								7							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001034875600001	27	Article; Article		
J	Mohr, M.; Peer, L.; De Michiel, A.; van Andel, S.; Federolf, P.								Whole-body kinematic adaptations to running on an unstable, irregular, and compliant surface								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	10			3093	3107		10.1080/14763141.2023.2222022			OCT 3 2025	2025	The goal of this study was to investigate whole-body kinematic adaptations when running on an unstable, irregular, and compliant surface in comparison to running on asphalt. We hypothesised that the gait pattern (H1) and its stride-to-stride variability (H2) would be affected by the unstable surface but that variability related to some movement features would be reduced over multiple testing days indicative of gait optimisation (H3). Fifteen runners ran on a woodchip and asphalt track on five testing days while their whole-body movements were captured using inertial motion capture and examined using joint angle and principal component analysis. Joint angles and stride-to-stride variability in eight principal running movements were subjected to surface by day analyses of variance. The woodchip track compared to asphalt resulted in (H1) a more crouched gait pattern including more leg flexion and forward trunk lean and (H2) higher stride-to-stride variability in most investigated principal running movements. However, (H3) stride-to-stride variability did not systematically change over testing days. Running on an unstable, irregular, and more compliant surface leads to the adoption a gait pattern and control strategy that are more robust against disturbances caused by the surface but may pose certain risks for overuse injury in trail runners.		[Mohr, M.; Peer, L.; De Michiel, A.; van Andel, S.; Federolf, P.] Univ Innsbruck, Dept Sport Sci, Innsbruck, Austria; [van Andel, S.] Ijsselheem Fdn, Kampen, Netherlands; [Mohr, M.] Univ Innsbruck, Dept Sport Sci, Innsbruck, Austria								11							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001006402800001	44	Article; Article		
J	Jones, Holly S. R.; Stiles, Victoria H.; Verheul, Jasper; Moore, Isabel S.								Assessments performed on harder surfaces can misrepresent ACL injury risk								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	11			3136	3158		10.1080/14763141.2023.2223556			NOV 2 2025	2025	Changes in surface hardness are likely to alter an athlete's movement strategy. Anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) injury risk assessments that are performed on a different surface to that used for training and competition may, therefore, not represent an athlete's on-field movement strategies. The aim of this study was to examine the influence of surface hardness on multidirectional field sport athletes' movement strategies in movements that are commonly used in ACL injury risk assessments (bilateral and unilateral drop jumps, and a cutting manoeuvre). Ground reaction forcesand three-dimensional lower limb kinematics were recorded from 19 healthy, male, multidirectional field sport athletes performing bilateral and unilateral drop jumps, and a 90 degrees cutting task on Mondo track (harder surface) and artificial turf (softer surface). Continuous (statistical parametric mapping) and discrete analyses revealed alterations in vertical and horizontal braking forces and knee and hip moments between surfaces of different hardness in all three movements (p <= 0.05, d > 0.5). Injury risk assessments performed on a harder surface (e.g. Mondo track) can misrepresent an athlete's risk of ACL injury compared to the same movements performed on a softer more cushioned surface that is typically used for training and/or matches (e.g. artificial turf).		[Jones, Holly S. R.; Verheul, Jasper; Moore, Isabel S.] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Cardiff Sch Sport & Hlth Sci, Cardiff, Wales; [Stiles, Victoria H.] Univ Exeter, Sport & Hlth Sci, Exeter, England; [Jones, Holly S. R.] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Cardiff Sch Sport & Hlth Sci, Cardiff, Wales								3							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001007690500001	102	Article; Article		
J	Lentz-Nielsen, Nicki; Hart, Brian; Samani, Afshin								Prediction of movement in handball with the use of inertial measurement units and machine learning								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	5			1236	1249		10.1080/14763141.2023.2224279			MAY 4 2025	2025	Inertial Measurement Units (IMU) and machine learning are strong tools in quantifying physical demands in sports, such as handball. However, the detection of both locomotion and throw events simultaneously has not been a topic for much investigation. Wherefore, the aim of this study was to publicise a method for training an extreme gradient boosting model capable of identifying low intensity, dynamic, running and throw events. Twelve adults with varying experience in handball wore an IMU on the back while being video recorded during a handball match. The video recordings were used for annotating the four events. Due to the small sample size, a leave-one-subject-out (LOSO) approach was conducted for the modelling and feature selection. The model had issues identifying dynamic movements (F1-score = 0.66 +/- 0.07), whereas throw (F1-score = 0.95 +/- 0.05), low intensity (F1-score = 0.93 +/- 0.02) and running (F1-score = 0.86 +/- 0.05) were easier to identify. Features such as IQR and first zero crossing for most of the kinematic characteristics were among the most important features for the model. Therefore, it is recommended for future research to look into these two features, while also using a LOSO approach to decrease likelihood of artificially high model performance.		[Lentz-Nielsen, Nicki; Samani, Afshin] Aalborg Univ, Fac Med, Dept Hlth Sci & Technol, Sport Sci Performance & Technol, Aalborg, Denmark; [Hart, Brian] Catapult Grp Int Ltd, Melbourne, Australia; [Lentz-Nielsen, Nicki] Aalborg Univ, Fac Med, Dept Hlth Sci & Technol, Sport Sci Performance & Technol, Aalborg, Denmark								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001005890000001	33	Article; Article		
J	Martin, Denise; O'Donoghue, Peter G.; Bradley, Jonathan; Robertson, Sam; McGrath, Denise								Identifying the characteristics, constraints, and enablers to creating value in applied performance analysis								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	2			832	846		10.1177/17479541231180243			APR 2024	2024	While applied performance analysts (PAs) are a well-established applied sports science practitioner group, there is no clear definition of the purpose of an analyst, their key relationships, or the expertise required to execute the role successfully. This research sought to understand how PA practitioners and educators perceive their role as applied PA practitioners. Twenty-seven applied PAs and educators with applied PA experience participated in six online focus groups, completing an online survey in advance. Reflexive thematic analysis of transcripts and survey data generated an overarching theme: embedded applied PA practitioners have a value co-creation role within performance ecosystems which is inhibited by poor professional infrastructure and a lack conceptual clarity for the role. Five sub-themes are reported; the (a) why, (b) what, and (c) how of professional practice; d) the impact of stakeholder misunderstanding on PA practitioners; and (e) issues with professional recognition, development, and renumeration opportunities. This study demonstrates applied PAs' role as curators, translators, influencers, and educators aiming to add value to the decision-making of a wide range of stakeholders. It highlights a potential deficit in applied practice in 'value capture' which may be perpetuating the problems practitioners reported with stakeholder misconceptions and undervaluing of their role. It is hoped this paper will inspire those invested in applied PA practice to create a shared understanding of how they can add value within the performance ecosystem so the profession can evolve and thrive.		[Martin, Denise] Technol Univ Dublin, Sch Global Business, Dublin, Ireland; [Martin, Denise; McGrath, Denise] Univ Coll Dublin, Sch Publ Hlth Physiotherapy & Sports Sci, Dublin, Ireland; [O'Donoghue, Peter G.] Reykjavik Univ, Dept Sports Sci, Reykjavik, Iceland; [Bradley, Jonathan] South Eastern Technol Univ, Ctr Performance Anal, Carlow, Ireland; [Robertson, Sam] Victoria Univ, Inst Hlth & Sport, Footscray, Australia; [McGrath, Denise] Insight SFI Res Ctr Data Analyt, Dublin, Ireland; [Martin, Denise] Technol Univ Dublin, Sch Global Business, Dublin, Ireland								9							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001007055000001	75	Article; Article		
J	Sato, Shintaro; Ko, Yong Jae; Kim, Daehwan; Lee, Joon Sung								The effects of pre-scandal associations of athlete endorsers and scandal types on consumer blame and eWOM								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				24	4			814	833		10.1108/IJSMS-07-2022-0139			OCT 11 2023	2023	PurposeThe purpose of this research is to examine how pre-scandal associations and scandal types interactively influence consumer judgment and negative electronic word-of-mouth (eWOM).Design/methodology/approachDrawing from cognitive dissonance theory and associative memory network model, the online experiments (Amazon Mechanical Turk; Nexperiment 1 = 146 and Nexperiment 2 = 189) were conducted to examine the effects of positive pre-scandal associations (performance vs pro-social) and scandal types (performance-related vs -unrelated) on consumer blame and eWOM toward scandalized athletes. Data were analyzed by employing t-test (experiment 1), Multivariate Analysis of Covariance (MANCOVA) and PROCESS Model 8 (experiment 2) to test the hypotheses.FindingsThe findings highlight that positive pre-scandal association demonstrated both protecting and backfiring effects depending on the types of scandals. Specifically, when performance-related scandals emerged, consumers made more negative blame judgment of athletes with salient performance association, relative to pro-social association. Inversely, when performance-unrelated scandals occurred, athletes with salient pro-social association were more likely to be blamed. Regarding eWOM, consumers generate more negative eWOM when athletes with pre-performance associations are involved with performance-related scandals. This pattern of the result was not observed when athletes' pro-social association and performance-unrelated scandals were prominent.Originality/valueThe current work adds consumers' negative eWOM toward scandalized athletes to the literature as a predictor of how athletes' pre-scandal association with consumers and scandal types are related. The findings indicate that consumers feel greater dissonance and generate more negative eWOM when athletes' pre-scandal associations and scandal types are closely related.		[Sato, Shintaro] Waseda Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Tokyo, Japan; [Ko, Yong Jae] Univ Florida, Gainesville, FL USA; [Kim, Daehwan] Pukyong Natl Univ, Dept Marine Sports, Daeyeon Campus, Busan, South Korea; [Lee, Joon Sung] Yonsei Univ, Dept Sport Ind Studies, Seoul, South Korea; [Sato, Shintaro] Waseda Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Tokyo, Japan								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001004925800001	68	Article; Article		
J	Faltstrom, Anne; Hagglund, Martin; Hedevik, Henrik; Lindblom, Hanna; Kvist, Joanna								The side hop test: Validity, reliability, and quality aspects in relation to sex, age and anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction, in soccer players								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				62				39	45		10.1016/j.ptsp.2023.05.008			JUL 2023	2023	Objective: To study the side hop test regarding validity, reliability, and quality in relation to sex, age and ACL-reconstruction in soccer players.Design: Cohort study. Participants: 117 females with a primary ACL-reconstruction, and 119 females, 46 males (age 16-26 years), 49 girls and 66 boys (age 13-16 years) without injury.Main outcome measures: For convergent validity, one physiotherapist analysed side hops live and later on video. One physiotherapist and two physiotherapy students analysed side hops from 92 players for interrater reliability (video). For intrarater reliability, side hops from 35 players were analysed twice (video). Quality aspects (flaws), i.e. number of times the hopping limb touched the strips, the nonhopping limb touched the floor, and double hops/foot turns with the hopping limb, were registered (video).Results: Convergent validity was excellent; the intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC) was 0.93-1.0. All reliability measures were excellent (ICC 0.92-1.0). Adult male players had fewest and girls had most flaws, especially double hops/foot turns with the hopping limb, compared with all other players (mean, 11-12 vs 1-6, h2 = 0.18, large effect size). No differences were reported between knee-healthy and ACLreconstructed females.Conclusion: The side hop test is valid and reliable. Quality aspects differ between sexes and ages.& COPY; 2023 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).		[Faltstrom, Anne] Ryhov Cty Hosp, Rehabil Ctr, Reg Jonkoping Cty, S-55185 Jonkoping, Sweden; [Faltstrom, Anne; Hagglund, Martin; Hedevik, Henrik; Lindblom, Hanna; Kvist, Joanna] Linkoping Univ, Dept Hlth Med & Caring Sci, Unit Physiotherapy, S-58183 Linkoping, Sweden; [Hagglund, Martin; Lindblom, Hanna] Linkoping Univ, Dept Hlth Med & Caring Sci, Sport Without Injury ProgrammE SWIPE, Linkoping, Sweden; [Kvist, Joanna] Karolinska Inst, Stockholm Sports Trauma Res Ctr, FIFA Med Ctr Excellence, Solna, Sweden; [Faltstrom, Anne] Ryhov Cty Hosp, Rehabil Ctr, S-55185 Jonkoping, Sweden								12							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001018674400001	19	Article; Article		
J	Leckie, Isaac; Thomas, Luke; Weiler, Richard								Rehabilitation of a lateral ankle reconstruction in a male professional football player-A narrative case report								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				62				32	38		10.1016/j.ptsp.2023.05.004			JUL 2023	2023	Objectives: Lateral ankle sprains involving the ATFL and CFL are common injuries in football with a high recurrence rate. There is a lack of research to guide post-operative rehabilitation of football players following lateral ligament ankle reconstructive surgery. This narrative case report discusses the management of a lateral ligament reconstruction in a male professional football player.Methods: A 25-year-old professional footballer underwent a lateral ankle reconstruction following recurrent lateral ankle sprains leading to an unstable ankle.Results: Following 11-weeks of rehabilitation the player was cleared to return to full-contact training. The player competed in his first competitive match 13-weeks post-injury and completed a 6-month fulltraining block, without episodes of pain or instability. Conclusion: This case report illustrates the rehabilitation process of a football player following a lateral ankle ligament reconstruction within a timeframe expected in elite sport.& COPY; 2023 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).		[Leckie, Isaac] Univ Salford, Salford, England; [Thomas, Luke] Univ Bath, Bath, England; [Weiler, Richard] Univ Med Ctr, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Weiler, Richard] UCL, Div Surg & Intervent Sci, Inst Sport Exercise & Hlth, London, England; [Weiler, Richard] Fortius Clin London, London, England; [Leckie, Isaac] Univ Salford, Salford, England								2							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001019849000001	48	Article; Article		
J	Barber, Patrick; Pontillo, Marisa; Bellm, Eric; Davies, George								Objective and subjective measures to guide upper extremity return to sport testing: A modified Delphi survey								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				62				17	24		10.1016/j.ptsp.2023.05.009			JUL 2023	2023	Objective: To identify which subjective and objective tests do content experts utilize to help guide return to sport (RTS) decision making for an athlete after an upper extremity (UE) injury?Methods: A modified Delphi survey was utilized, including content experts in UE rehabilitation. Survey items were identified based on a literature review identifying current best evidence and practice for UE RTS decision making. Content experts (n 1/4 52) were identified, having a minimum of 10 years of experience with rehabilitation of UE athletic injuries, and 5 years of experience using an UE RTS algo-rithm to guide decision making.Results: Expert consensus was achieved on a combination of tests utilized within an UE RTS algorithm: 1. Tissue healing time frame is an important consideration in RTS decision making; 2. Patient reported outcome measures should be utilized specifically, DASH and NPRS 3. Strength is measured by handheld dynamometer and is an important consideration. 4. ROM should be utilized and is an important consideration. 5. Physical performance tests utilized include: Closed Kinetic Chain Upper Extremity Stability test, Seated shot-put test and lower extremity/core tests.Conclusions: This survey reached expert consensus on which subjective and objective measures to utilize to evaluate RTS readiness after UE injury.& COPY; 2023 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Barber, Patrick] Univ Rochester, Med Ctr, Rochester, NY USA; [Pontillo, Marisa] Dept Def EACE, San Diego, CA USA; [Bellm, Eric] Cincinnati Childrens Hosp Med Ctr, Cincinnati, OH USA; [Davies, George] Georgia Southern Univ, Phys Therapy Program, Savannah, GA USA; [Barber, Patrick] Univ Rochester, Dept Orthopaed, Rochester, NY 14627 USA; [Barber, Patrick] Univ Rochester, Phys Performance Inst, Rochester, NY 14627 USA; [Barber, Patrick] Univ Rochester, Dept Orthopaed, Rochester, NY 14627 USA; [Barber, Patrick] Univ Rochester, Phys Performance Inst, Rochester, NY 14627 USA								10							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001019642900001	34	Article; Article		
J	Zhuravleva, Tatiana; Aiken, Christopher A.; Becker, Kevin A.; Lin, Pin-Chen; Sampson, Jack J.								The use of a holistic focus of attention to improve standing long jump performance among NCAA track and field athletes								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	4			1074	1081		10.1177/17479541231178981			AUG 2023	2023	Research on attentional focus has consistently shown that an external focus (EF) is superior to an internal focus (IF) for performance with novice performers or learners. When examining experienced performers, the findings have been ambiguous with various attentional focus types proving to be beneficial. Recent research suggests that coaches utilize a combination of attentional focus strategies when instructing highly skilled throwers in track and field. In addition to the traditional EF and IF, a holistic focus (HF) has been found to enhance performance similar to that of an EF. The purpose of the current study was to investigate attentional focus manipulations (i.e. IF, EF and HF) among NCAA Division I track and field athletes. Sixteen females performed a standing long jump under three attentional focus conditions in an outdoor long jump sand pit with an orange cone placed 5-m from the starting line. Participants performed three jumps under each focus condition in a counterbalanced order, nine jumps in total. Focus adherence was measured after each condition. Athletes also reported their preferred attentional focus at the conclusion of the study. A repeated-measures ANOVA was used to analyze jump distance and adherence. It was observed that a HF led to significantly longer jump distances than an IF (p < .01). No other significant differences for condition were observed for distance (p > .05). These results suggest that a HF enhanced standing long jump performance among highly skilled individuals and can be used to enhance performance.		[Zhuravleva, Tatiana; Aiken, Christopher A.; Lin, Pin-Chen; Sampson, Jack J.] New Mexico State Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Las Cruces, NM 88003 USA; [Becker, Kevin A.] Univ Tennessee, Dept Kinesiol Recreat & Sport Studies, Knoxville, TN USA; [Aiken, Christopher A.] New Mexico State Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Las Cruces, NM 88003 USA								18							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001008326100001	66	Article; Article		
J	De Marco, Kristen; Lyons, Mikayla; Joyce, Christopher; Conlon, Jenny A.								The relationship between relative lower-body strength, sprint and change of direction ability in elite youth female soccer athletes								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	2			805	811		10.1177/17479541231180329			APR 2024	2024	Soccer is described as a high-intensity, multidirectional sport requiring athletes to possess a high level of physical conditioning to compete at the elite level. Strength, linear sprint and change of direction (COD) abilities are key physical characteristics in soccer-specific performance, with research suggesting athletes who possess greater relative lower-body strength are superior in sprint and COD ability. The purpose of this study was to investigate the relationship between relative lower-body strength with linear sprint and COD ability among elite youth female soccer athletes in Western Australia. Forty-four (U13, n = 11; U14, n = 12; U15, n = 11; U19, n = 10) athletes completed an isometric mid-thigh pull (IMTP), 30 m sprint and 505 COD test. Results demonstrated a significant moderate correlation between relative IMTP (IMTPr) performance and 10 m (r = -0.315, p = 0.037) and 30 m (r = -0.0347, p = 0.021) sprint time, however, there was no significant correlation between IMTPr performance and COD deficit (r = -0.227, p = 0.168). This study suggests that relative lower-body strength is moderately related to greater sprint performance but not COD ability in elite youth female soccer athletes. Overall, relative lower-body strength appears to be advantageous to linear sprint performance in elite youth female soccer athletes, and therefore the inclusion of appropriate and targeted strength training in the physical preparation and long-term athlete development of this demographic may be recommended.		[De Marco, Kristen] Murdoch Univ, Ctr Hlth Ageing, Sch Allied Hlth, Murdoch, WA, Australia; [De Marco, Kristen; Lyons, Mikayla; Joyce, Christopher; Conlon, Jenny A.] Univ Notre Dame Australia, Sch Hlth Sci, Fremantle, WA, Australia; [Conlon, Jenny A.] Univ Notre Dame Australia, Fremantle, WA, Australia; [Conlon, Jenny A.] Univ Notre Dame Australia, Fremantle, WA, Australia								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001008339300001	38	Article; Article		
J	Laakso, Lassi A. A.; Secomb, Josh L. L.								Skating sprint performance and the influence of lower-body strength and power in professional and junior elite ice hockey athletes								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	12			3382	3393		10.1080/14763141.2023.2218326			DEC 1 2024	2024	Skating sprint performance is essential for competitive success in ice hockey; however, it is unknown which component of a skating sprint is most critical for development throughout the performance pathway. Fifty-seven Swiss male ice hockey athletes were subjects (National League [NL], n = 22; Under 20 [U20], n = 20; Under 17 [U17], n = 15). Athletes performed: on-ice 30 m skating sprint, countermovement jump (CMJ), squat jump (SJ), and isometric mid-thigh pull (IMTP) tests in a single day. Linear mixed models, effect sizes and 95% confidence intervals were used to compare sprint performance and CMJ, SJ and IMTP between each performance level, with a correlation matrix used to determine the influence of lower-body strength and power on sprint performance. The NL and U20 athletes were significantly faster and had greater performance in most CMJ, SJ and IMTP variables compared to the U17 athletes, indicating minimum standards of lower-body strength and power are required to optimise technical performance. Significant differences were observed between NL and U20 for 10-20 m skating sprint split time and CMJ concentric relative peak and mean force, and reactive strength index-modified. Therefore, flying acceleration (10-20 m) is likely the most critical variable for pathway progression, with relative concentric force production the greatest influence.		[Laakso, Lassi A. A.] Natl League, Hockey Club Lugano, Lugano, Switzerland; [Laakso, Lassi A. A.] St Marys Univ, Sch Sport Hlth & Appl Sci, Twickenham, England; [Secomb, Josh L. L.] Univ Newcastle, Appl Sports Sci & Exercise Testing Lab, Ourimbah, NSW, Australia; [Secomb, Josh L. L.] Hunter Med Res Inst, Act Living Res Program, Newcastle, Australia; [Laakso, Lassi A. A.] Natl League, Hockey Club Lugano, Lugano, Switzerland; [Laakso, Lassi A. A.] St Marys Univ, Sch Sport Hlth & Appl Sci, Twickenham, England								8							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000999681800001	28	Article; Article		
J	Kraemer, William J.; Nitka, Mike								Importance of an In-Season Strength Training Program: A Reminder to Sport Coaches								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				45	3			379	383		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000739			JUN 2023	2023	The importance of an in-season strength training program has been lost by many sports coaches. It is up to the strength and conditioning professionals at all levels to reeducate those coaches who do not understand that this phase of the macrocycle is vital to long-term player development, injury prevention, and performance. Two-day-a-week interventions can help maintain or even improve athletes' physical capacities and sports performances. Not having an in-season program can result in detraining and increase the potential for injury with the loss of muscle and connective tissue strength and density.		[Kraemer, William J.] Ohio State Univ, Dept Human Sci, Columbus, OH 43210 USA; [Kraemer, William J.] Ohio State Univ, Dept Athlet, Columbus, OH 43210 USA; [Nitka, Mike] Muskego High Sch, Muskego, WI USA; [Nitka, Mike] Carroll Univ, Waukesha, WI USA; [Kraemer, William J.] Ohio State Univ, Dept Human Sci, Columbus, OH 43210 USA; [Kraemer, William J.] Ohio State Univ, Dept Athlet, Columbus, OH 43210 USA								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:001000281900013	10	Article; Article		
J	Ide, Bernardo N.; Silvatti, Amanda P.; Marocolo, Moacir; Oranchuk, Dustin J.; Mota, Gustavo R.								The Misuse of "Workload" in Sports Science and Possible Solutions								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				45	3			364	366		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000750			JUN 2023	2023	Because of fundamental mechanical misconceptions, workload is a contested and nonsensical term that has been erroneously used in sports science literature. When the term workload is used, readers may interpret the term to mean: (a) load, referring to the weight force of an object, or an external or internal force, applied in a specified direction and, when using the International System of Units (SI), the outcome measure must be reported in newtons, or (b) the amount of work performed, which should be reported in joules. Solutions consistent with the SI and using proper scientific terminology are simple and would improve the advancement and use of knowledge in sports science. During an endurance training program, exercise duration, relative or absolute mean velocity, distance traveled, and power output are manipulated. Within strength and power training programs, variables to be considered are repetitions and sets, rest period durations, and the load lifted. In team sports, performance quantification includes displacement, distance traveled, velocity, and acceleration. These physical quantities should replace the vague and inaccurate term workload. The quantification of physical performance should be accomplished using the SI for clarity of communication and seamless use across all subdisciplines of sports science.		[Ide, Bernardo N.; Mota, Gustavo R.] Univ Fed Triangulo Mineiro, Inst Hlth Sci, Dept Sport Sci, Exercise Sci Hlth & Human Performance Res Grp, Uberaba, MG, Brazil; [Silvatti, Amanda P.] Univ Fed Vicosa, Dept Phys Educ, Vicosa, MG, Brazil; [Marocolo, Moacir] Univ Fed Juiz de Fora, Dept Physiol, Physiol & Human Performance Res Grp, Juiz De Fora, MG, Brazil; [Oranchuk, Dustin J.] Auckland Univ Technol, Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand, Fac Hlth & Environm Sci, Auckland, New Zealand; [Ide, Bernardo N.] Univ Fed Triangulo Mineiro, Inst Hlth Sci, Dept Sport Sci, Exercise Sci Hlth & Human Performance Res Grp, Uberaba, MG, Brazil								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:001000281900010	23	Article; Article		
J	Douchet, Tom; Paizis, Christos; Roche, Hugo; Babault, Nicolas								Positional Differences in Absolute vs. Relative Training Loads in Elite Academy Soccer Players								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				22	2			317	328		10.52082/jssm.2023.317			JUN 2023	2023	Weekly training loads are typically reported using absolute values and are not individualized according to competition positional demands (relative values). The aim of this study was to evaluate absolute and relative training loads and compare across playing positions during a full in-season in an elite soccer academy. 24 elite academy soccer players, categorized into five positions (CD: central defender [n = 4]; FB: full back [n = 5]; CM: central midfielder [n = 6]; WM: wide midfielder [n = 5]; FW: forward [n = 4]), were monitored using a global positioning system. Absolute training load was calculated using the total distance, the distance at moderate-speed ([15 - 20[ km.h(-1)), high-speed ([20 - 25[ km.h(-1)), sprint (> 25 km.h(-1)), the total number of accelerations (> 3 m.s(-2)) and decelerations (< -3 m.s(-2)). Relative training load was calculated by dividing absolute training loads by mean values from the competitive matches. Training loads were determined daily according to their distance from match day (MD). One-way ANOVAs were performed to evaluate differences between playing positions. Absolute moderate-speed distance was greater for WM compared to CD (p = 0.015, and p = 0.017), while the opposite was shown for relative values (p = 0.014, and p < 0.001) on MD-4 and MD-3, respectively. The absolute moderate-speed distance was not different between CD, FB, CM, and FW, whereas relative values were greater for CD on MD+2 and MD-4 (p < 0.05). FB and WM performed greater absolute high-speed distance than CD on MD-4 and MD-3 (p < 0.05) while no difference was highlighted for relative values.Our results demonstrated that in the present academy players, training load for CD was underestimated using absolute training loads for moderate and high-speed distances. In contrast, relative training loads highlighted WM as an underloaded position. Therefore, relative training loads are recommended as they contextualize training loads according to competitive demands and favor training individualization.		[Douchet, Tom; Paizis, Christos; Babault, Nicolas] Univ Bourgogne, UFR Sci Sport, CAPS, INSERM,UMR1093, F-21000 Dijon, France; [Douchet, Tom; Paizis, Christos; Babault, Nicolas] Univ Bourgogne, UFR Sci Sport, Ctr Expertise Performance, F-21000 Dijon, France; [Douchet, Tom; Roche, Hugo] Dijon Football Cote Or DFCO, 17 Rue Stade, F-21000 Dijon, France; [Douchet, Tom] Dijon Football Cote Or DFCO, 17 Rue Stade, F-21000 Dijon, France								9							Sport Sciences	WOS:001004682300001	29	Article; Article		
J	Zhao, Qingrong; Wang, Yufeng; Niu, Yintao; Liu, Song								Jumping Rope Improves the Physical Fitness of Preadolescents Aged 10-12 Years: A Meta-Analysis								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				22	2			367	380		10.52082/jssm.2023.367			JUN 2023	2023	To systematically review the effects of jumping rope on physical fitness among 10 to 12-year-old preadolescents, and to provide evidence-based support for its use in school physical education curriculum work. The PubMed, Web of Science, SPORTDiscus, ScienceDirect, and CNKI databases were searched for randomized controlled trials that assessed jumping rope and physical fitness among preadolescents aged 10 - 12 years. Meta-analyses were used to calculate the standardized mean difference (SMD) values and 95% confidence intervals (CI), and subgroup analyses were conducted on intervention duration, frequency and period. A total of 1048 subjects from 15 studies were included. Compared to regular physical education courses, jumping rope did not show a significant advantage in terms of body morphology. In terms of physical function, boys showed greater improvements in vital capacity, and girls showed greater improvements in resting HR. In terms of physical performance, boys showed greater improvements in speed, upper-body strength, lower-body strength, muscular endurance and agility, while girls showed greater improvements in coordination and balance. Boys experienced a minimal improvement in flexibility, while girls did not show a significant difference. Combining the results of the subgroup analyses, the optimal session time, frequency and intervention length of jumping rope for significantly improving the physical fitness of preadolescents were >40 min, 2 times/week and 8 - 12 weeks, respectively. In conclusion, jumping rope provides small to large benefits over regular physical education for both boys and girls aged 10-12 years in terms of physical function and physical performance indicators other than flexibility, while showing no significant advantage in terms of body morphology. Based on the available research, it is recommended that children aged 10 - 12 years participate in jump rope sessions for at least 40 minutes once or twice a week for 8 - 12 weeks to better develop physical fitness.		[Zhao, Qingrong] Harbin Sport Univ, Grad Sch, Harbin, Heilongjiang, Peoples R China; [Zhao, Qingrong] Haikou Qiongshan Huaqiao Middle Sch, Haikou, Hainan, Peoples R China; [Wang, Yufeng] Harbin Sport Univ, Inst Sports Sci, 1 Dacheng St, Harbin 150008, Heilongjiang, Peoples R China; [Niu, Yintao] Chizhou Univ, Phys Educ Inst, Chizhou, Anhui, Peoples R China; [Liu, Song] Harbin Sport Univ, Inst Sports & Human Sci, Harbin, Heilongjiang, Peoples R China; [Wang, Yufeng] Harbin Sport Univ, Inst Sports Sci, 1 Dacheng St, Harbin 150008, Heilongjiang, Peoples R China								18							Sport Sciences	WOS:001008737500001	104	Article; Article		
J	Chiang, Tsung-Lin; Chen, Chu; Lin, Yu-Chin; Chan, Shih-Hsuan; Wu, Huey-June								Effect of Polarized Training on Cardiorespiratory Fitness of Untrained Healthy Young Adults: A Randomized Control Trial with Equal Training Impulse								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				22	2			263	272		10.52082/jssm.2023.263			JUN 2023	2023	To explore the effects of 8-week polarized training (POL), high-intensity interval training (HIIT), and threshold training (THR) interventions on the cardiorespiratory fitness (CRF) of untrained healthy young adults. This study recruited 36 young adults and randomly assigned them to POL, HIIT, THR, or control (CG) groups to undergo an 8-week training intervention. The training impulse applied to all three intervention groups was identical. The training intensity was divided into Zone 1, 2, and 3 (Z1, Z2 and Z3) on the basis of the ventilatory thresholds (VT). The weekly training intensity distribution for POL was 75% of Z1 and 25% of Z3; HIIT was 100% of Z3 and THR was 50% of Z1 and 50% of Z2. Each group underwent Bruce protocol testing and supra-maximal testing before, during, and after the intervention; relevant CRF parameters were assessed. 8 weeks of POL and HIIT significantly increased VT2 (p < 0.05); 8 weeks of POL, HIIT, THR and significantly increased VO2max and TTE (p < 0.05). The effect size of POL in relation to VO2max and TTE improvements was greater than that of HIIT and THR (g = 2.67 vs. 1.26 and 1.49; g = 2.75 vs. 2.05 and 1.60). Aerobic training models with different intensity distributions have different time effects on improving CRF. Relative to HIIT and THR, POL improved more variables of CRF. Therefore, POL is a feasible aerobic training method for improving CRF.		[Chiang, Tsung-Lin; Lin, Yu-Chin; Chan, Shih-Hsuan; Wu, Huey-June] Chinese Culture Univ, Grad Inst Sport Coaching Sci, 55 Hwa Kang Rd, Taipei 11114, Taiwan; [Chen, Chu] Natl Taiwan Normal Univ, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Taipei, Taiwan; [Wu, Huey-June] Chinese Culture Univ, Grad Inst Sport Coaching Sci, 55 Hwa Kang Rd, Taipei 11114, Taiwan								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:000995809000001	43	Article; Article		
J	Papla, Monika; Ewertowska, Paulina; Krzysztofik, Michal								Acute Effects of Complex Conditioning Activities on Athletic Performance and Achilles Tendon Stiffness in Male Basketball Players								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				22	2			281	287		10.52082/jssm.2023.281			JUN 2023	2023	The goal of this study was to compare the effects of a bilateral conditioning activity consisting of back squats and drop jumps with a unilateral one consisting of split squats and depth jumps to lateral hop over sequentially performed countermovement jump (CMJ), modified t-agility test (MAT), and Achilles tendon stiffness. Twenty-six basketball players participated in this study and were randomly and equally assigned to one of two different test groups: bilateral (B - CA) or unilateral (U - CA) conditioning activity group. The B - CA group completed 2 sets of 4 repetitions of back squats at 80% of one-repetition maximum (1RM), then 10 drop jumps, while the U - CA group performed 2 sets of 2 repetitions of split squats on each leg at 80%1RM, followed by 5 depth jumps to lateral hop on each leg as conditioning activity (CA) complexes. After a warm-up and 5 min before the CA the baseline Achilles tendon stiffness, CMJ, and MAT time measurement were performed. In the 6th min after the CA, all tests were re-tested in the same order. The two-way repeated measures mixed ANOVAs revealed that both B - CA and U - CA failed to produce significant improvements in CMJ and MAT performance. In addition, a significant increase in Achilles stiffness was demonstrated with both protocols (a main effect of time: p = 0.017; effect size = 0.47; medium). This study revealed that combining back squats and drop jumps, as well as split squats and depth jumps to a lateral hop, had no effect on subsequent CMJ and MAT performance in basketball players. Based on these results, it can be assumed that combinations of exercises, even if they have similar movement patterns, may cause excessive fatigue, resulting in no PAPE effect.		[Papla, Monika; Krzysztofik, Michal] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ, Inst Sport Sci, Katowice, Poland; [Ewertowska, Paulina] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, Fac Phys Educ, Div Clin Physiotherapy, Gdansk, Poland; [Krzysztofik, Michal] Charles Univ Prague, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Dept Sport Games, Prague, Czech Republic; [Papla, Monika] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ, Inst Sport Sci, Katowice, Poland								10							Sport Sciences	WOS:000994478900001	38	Article; Article		
J	Zhong, Yuming; Weldon, Anthony; Bishop, Chris; Li, Yongming								Practices of strength and conditioning coaches across Chinese high-performance sports								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	5			1442	1455		10.1177/17479541231176491			OCT 2023	2023	This study used an online survey to investigate the practices and perspectives of strength and conditioning coaches (SCCs) across different high-performance sports in China. The survey comprised of the following sections: (a) background information, (b) muscular strength and power, (c) speed, (d) endurance, (e) plyometrics, (f) flexibility, (g) physical testing, (h) technology use, and (i) programming. In total, 93 SCCs from 44 high-performance sports across 25 provinces/municipalities participated in this study (age 31.5 +/- 6.9 yrs, experience as a SCC 5.5 +/- 4.4 yrs). Periodization strategies were used by 97% of SCCs. Clean and derivatives (37%) were deemed the most important exercises for strength and power development. Heart rate (85%) and repetition maximum (72%) were the most used methods for determining set loads in endurance and strength training, respectively. Box drills (91%) were the most prescribed plyometric exercise and dynamic stretching (91%) was the most prescribed flexibility exercise. All SCCs physically tested their athletes and 95% frequently used technology-based equipment. For open-ended questions, 30% of SCCs would change their programs by improving monitoring, testing, equipment, and facilities. Thirty-nine percent of SCCs believed digitization and monitoring will be prominent future trends. The results indicated that most practices of SCCs in Chinese high-performance sports were dissimilar to those of SCCs in other countries. SCCs generally prescribe training according to the needs of sports. However, the interferences of many external factors also affected the scientific nature of training prescription.		[Zhong, Yuming; Li, Yongming] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Athlet Performance, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Weldon, Anthony] Birmingham City Univ, Ctr Life & Sport Sci, Birmingham, England; [Bishop, Chris] Middlesex Univ, London Sports Inst, Fac Sci & Technol, London, England; [Li, Yongming] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Athlet Performance, Changhai Rd 399, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Li, Yongming] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Athlet Performance, Changhai Rd 399, Shanghai, Peoples R China								19							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001001204900001	49	Article; Article		
J	Christie, Candice J.; McEwan, Kayla; Munro, Catherine E.; King, Greg A.; Le Roux, Adrian; Olivier, Benita; Jackson, Brandon; Manjra, Shuaib; MacMillan, Candice; Pote, Lee								Do South African international cricket pace bowlers have similar bowling volume and injury risk associates compared to other elite fast bowlers?								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	2			797	804		10.1177/17479541231174301			APR 2024	2024	Background Although many cricket-playing nations have conducted research on bowling volume (BV) and injury risk, this relationship amongst international South African pace bowlers is yet to be investigated. Environmental, socio-economic and training strategy differences warrant similar research in a South African context. The purpose of this preliminary study was to establish whether South African pace bowlers have similar BV and injury associates compared to other elite fast bowlers. Methods This study was a prospective, observational, cohort study that monitored match and training BV and injuries amongst pace bowlers playing for the South African national team between April 2017 and April 2019. A sample of convenience that included 14 bowlers was selected. Bowling volume was quantified as the number of deliveries bowled during training and competition. Acute-, chronic- and acute:chronic BV ratios were independently modelled as association variables. Results There were 39 injuries with the most being to the lumbar spine (25.64%). Moderate-to-low and a moderate-to-high acute:chronic bowling load ratios were associated with a lower risk of injury. Chronic bowling load was associated with injury (z = 2.82, p = 0.01). A low acute workload, low chronic workload, moderate-high chronic workload and moderate-low acute:chronic ratio were also associated with an increased risk of injury. Conclusion These findings confirm that there appears to be a dose-response effect between training BV and the likelihood of an injury occurring with a moderate-to-low and a moderate-to-high BV ratio being optimal. Considering the small sample size, the findings should be interpreted with caution.		[Christie, Candice J.; McEwan, Kayla; Munro, Catherine E.] Rhodes Univ, Dept Human Kinet & Ergon, Grahamstown, South Africa; [King, Greg A.; Le Roux, Adrian; Jackson, Brandon; Manjra, Shuaib] Cricket South Afr, Johannesburg, South Africa; [Olivier, Benita; MacMillan, Candice] Univ Witwatersrand, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Physiotherapy, Wits Cricket Res Hub Sci Med & Rehabilitat, Johannesburg, South Africa; [MacMillan, Candice] Univ Pretoria, Fac Hlth Sci, Sport Exercise Med Lifestyle Inst SEMLI, Pretoria, South Africa; [Pote, Lee] Univ Derby, Dept Sport & Exercise Sci, Derby, England; [MacMillan, Candice] Univ Witwatersrand, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Physiotherapy, Wits Cricket Res Hub Sci Med & Rehabil, Johannesburg, South Africa; [MacMillan, Candice] Univ Pretoria, Fac Hlth Sci, Sport Exercise Med Lifestyle Inst SEMLI, Pretoria, South Africa; [MacMillan, Candice] Univ Witwatersrand, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Physiotherapy, Wits Cricket Res Hub Sci Med & Rehabil, Johannesburg, South Africa								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001001614000001	41	Article; Article		
J	Ben Chikha, Houssem; Zoudji, Bachir; Khacharem, Aimen								An eye-tracking study of how coach's nonverbal communication affects memorization of basketball tactical scenes								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	6			1964	1977		10.1177/17479541231177003			DEC 2023	2023	Numerous studies have been conducted to examine the effects of an instructor's pointing gestures on learning performance across a wide range of academic domains. There are, however, few clear instructional guidelines for enhancing learning from this visual guidance. This study tested the combined effects of the coach's pointing gesture and gaze guidance on attention and recall performance in field-based sports. This study used a 3 (control vs. gesture vs. gesture/gaze) x 2 (novice vs. expert) between-subjects factorial design. Results showed a significant interaction effect between expertise level and experimental conditions on visual attention and memorization performance. Novice players scored higher after studying tactical instructions with pointing gestures and gaze guidance than players who studied the same instructions with pointing gestures, who in turn performed better than players who received instructions without cues. Expert players showed the same level of performance when they received the instructions without cues and with pointing gestures. However, they showed lower performance (notably in the visual attention and the mental effort measures) when they received the video with pointing gestures and gaze guidance compared to the instructions without gestures and with pointing gestures. These results suggest that the effectiveness of nonverbal visual guidance changes depending on the players' level of expertise.		[Ben Chikha, Houssem; Zoudji, Bachir; Khacharem, Aimen] Univ Polytech Hauts De France, LARSH Lab Rech Soc & Human, Valenciennes, France; [Ben Chikha, Houssem; Zoudji, Bachir; Khacharem, Aimen] LARSH, INSA Hauts De France, Valenciennes, France; [Khacharem, Aimen] Paris East Creteil Univ, UFR SESS STAPS, Creteil, France; [Ben Chikha, Houssem] Univ Polytech Hauts De France UPHF, Lab Rech Soc & Human LARSH, INSA Hauts De France, F-59313 Valenciennes, France; [Ben Chikha, Houssem] Univ Polytech Hauts De France UPHF, Lab Rech Soc & Human LARSH, INSA Hauts De France, F-59313 Valenciennes, France								13							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001001666500001	73	Article; Article		
J	Torabi, Tina Piil; Juul-Kristensen, Birgit; Dam, Mogens; Zebis, Mette K.; van den Tillaar, Roland; Bencke, Jesper								Comparison of throwing kinematics and muscle activation of female elite handball players with and without pain - the effect of repeated maximal throws								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	10			3062	3080		10.1080/14763141.2023.2212645			OCT 3 2025	2025	Shoulder pain is common in team handball; however, many continue playing. The purpose was to investigate whether a functional fatigue protocol (FFP) containing repeated sub and maximal standing throws affects throwing performance, upper body kinematics, muscle peak activation (MPA) and whether the effect was different between the players playing with or with no pain. Thirty female elite handball players performed five maximal standing throws before and after the FFP. Throwing velocity, throwing kinematics, and MPA were measured before and after the FFP. An increased ball velocity (p = .02) was found, but only the total throwing time increased significantly in pain group (p = .05). Fatigue also resulted in a larger maximal pelvis (p = .03) and trunk rotation (p = .03) in addition to an increased shoulder flexion at ball release in both groups (p = .03), but only the maximal external (p = .03) and internal shoulder rotation (p = .05) increased in the pain group. Furthermore, fatigue also affected MPA in the latissimus dorsi (p = .02) and infraspinatus (p = .01). It was concluded that fatigue influenced throwing performance, kinematics, MPA and timing, which may increase the risk of developing non-traumatic shoulder injuries in team handball. The information may help to understand how fatigue influences throwing kinematics and MPA in players playing with pain.		[Torabi, Tina Piil; van den Tillaar, Roland] Nord Univ, Dept Sports Sci, Levanger, Norway; [Torabi, Tina Piil; Bencke, Jesper] Copenhagen Univ Hosp, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Human Movement Anal Lab, Copenhagen, Denmark; [Juul-Kristensen, Birgit] Univ Southern Denmark, Dept Sports Sci & Clin Biomech, Odense, Denmark; [Dam, Mogens] Bulowsvej Physiothe & Training, Copenhagen, Denmark; [Zebis, Mette K.] Univ Coll Copenhagen, Fac Hlth, Dept Midwifery Physiotherapy Occupat Therapy & Psy, Copenhagen, Denmark; [Zebis, Mette K.] Copenhagen Univ Hosp Bispebjerg & Frederiksberg, Inst Sports Med Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark; [Torabi, Tina Piil] Nord Univ, Dept Sports Sci, Levanger, Norway; [Torabi, Tina Piil] Copenhagen Univ Hosp, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Human Movement Anal Lab, Copenhagen, Denmark								1							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000987536500001	67	Article; Article		
J	Guppy, Stuart N.; Nagatani, Tsuyoshi; Poon, Wayne C. K.; Kendall, Kristina L.; Lake, Jason P.; Haff, G. Gregory								Changes in deadlift six repetition maximum, countermovement jump performance, barbell velocity, and perceived exertion over the duration of a microcycle								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	2			822	831		10.1177/17479541231172569			APR 2024	2024	The primary aim of this study was to investigate the stability of the six-repetition maximum (6RM) deadlift over the length of a five-day microcycle and whether the fatigue induced by maximal effort testing detrimentally impacted preparedness. Twelve participants performed four testing sessions, comprising a one-repetition maximum test and three 6RM tests separated by 48 hours. Countermovement jumps were performed before each testing session, and barbell velocity was measured during each warm-up set to assess changes in preparedness. The 6RM deadlift was not statistically different between any of the testing sessions (p = .056; eta(2)(p) = 0.251). Similarly, there were no significant differences in jump height or other CMJ variables between sessions (p > .05). There were small to moderate differences in mean barbell velocity between the first and second 6RM test (g = 0.24-0.88), while there were only small differences in mean velocity (MV) between the second and third 6RM test at some of the warm-up loads (40% 6RM: g = 0.20; 80% 6RM: g = -0.47). Taken collectively, these data indicate that 6RM deadlift strength is stable over five days and does not appear to induce sufficient fatigue to impact vertical jump performance or rating of perceived exertion despite some changes in barbell velocity.		[Guppy, Stuart N.; Nagatani, Tsuyoshi; Poon, Wayne C. K.; Kendall, Kristina L.; Lake, Jason P.; Haff, G. Gregory] Edith Cowan Univ, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, 270 Joondalup Dr, Joondalup, WA 6027, Australia; [Lake, Jason P.] Univ Chichester, Chichester Inst Sport Nursing & Allied Hlth, Chichester, W Sussex, England; [Haff, G. Gregory] Univ Salford, Sch Hlth & Soc, Salford, England; [Guppy, Stuart N.] Edith Cowan Univ, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, 270 Joondalup Dr, Joondalup, WA 6027, Australia								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000985704100001	48	Article; Article		
J	Caldeira, Paulo; Paulo, Ana; Veloso, Antonio; Infante, Jorge; Davids, Keith; Araujo, Duarte								How functional movement variability facilitates successful skill adaptation during the volleyball attack								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	2			668	676		10.1177/17479541231168012			APR 2024	2024	From an ecological dynamics perspective, careful manipulation of task constraints can provide opportunities for action, exploited by functional movement variability of participants. The constraints-led approach (CLA) induces functional movement variability in practice designs, supporting athlete performance in satisfying task constraints and finding performance solutions to achieve intended task goals. Young male volleyball players were randomly assigned to either a traditional approach (TA) or CLA practice group. Selected spatial-temporal movement coordination variables were recorded, to explore their relations to successful performance outcomes in the attacking phase. Binomial logistic regression was used to verify the association of spatial-temporal movement variables with the percentage of successful attacks. Six spatial-temporal variables were included, and a manual backward stepwise regression was used to remove those which did not contribute to the best predictive model of successful performance. After a 6-week intervention programme, the CLA practice group displayed a significantly higher percentage of successful attack actions, when facing the opposition block. The TA group showed a small increase in successful attack actions after the intervention. The final binomial logistic regression model revealed that the variables 'lateral deviation of the participants' centre of mass' at the planting step and 'longitudinal deviation of the participants' centre of mass' at point of ball contact were the main predictors of successful attacking outcomes. To overcome the opposition's block in volleyball, infusing functional variability in a CLA task design, promoted superior performance in practice. Presumably, greater movement pattern variability emerged in participants to satisfy performance constraints in successful volleyball attacks.		[Caldeira, Paulo; Veloso, Antonio; Infante, Jorge; Araujo, Duarte] Univ Lisbon, Fac Motricidade Humana, Ciper, Lisbon, Portugal; [Paulo, Ana] Univ Lusofona, Ctr Invest Desporto, CIDEFES, Educ Fis eExercicio & Saude, Lisbon, Portugal; [Davids, Keith] Sheffield Hallam Univ, Sport & Human Performance Res Grp, Sheffield, England; [Caldeira, Paulo] Univ Lisbon, Fac Motricidade Humana, P-1499002 Lisbon, Portugal; [Caldeira, Paulo] Univ Lisbon, Fac Motricidade Humana, P-1499002 Lisbon, Portugal								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000986310500001	51	Article; Article		
J	Vickery, Will; Bhardwaj, Dhanur; Feros, Simon; Bruce, Lyndell; Nichol, Adam								A case study of behaviour: Differences between a head coach and player-coach								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	4			1295	1306		10.1177/17479541231154073			AUG 2023	2023	Background: Coach behaviour has received extensive attention in our literature base. This is particularly the case in recent times where systematic observations have highlighted common behaviours exhibited by coaches across various contexts. The current literature, however, lacks significant focus on the behaviours and practices of player-coaches. This is surprising given that these individuals may represent a significant proportion of the non-professional sporting industry.Purpose: The purpose of this case study was to investigate the differences in behaviours used by a player-coach and head coach within the sport of cricket and provide a position statement as to how and why further research in this area could be conducted.Method: One head coach (age = 26 y; Level 1 Cricket Australia coaching accreditation) and one player-coach (age = 30 y; Level 2 Cricket Australia coaching accreditation) were filmed during their typical practice sessions at various points of the cricket season. The behaviours of each coach were coded using a modified, cricket-specific version of the Coach Analysis and Intervention System.( 1 )Findings: Across 12 practice sessions (head coach n = 4, number of minutes recorded = 1004; player-coach n = 8, number of minutes recorded = 567), observation (on task) and questioning (convergent) were the two most frequent behaviours, irrespective of the coach's role. The player-coach tended to use more instruction when compared to the head-coach, in addition to asking fewer (divergent) questions. Significantly more of the session was spent observing (on task) by the head coach than the player-coach. Specific to this study, the player-coach spent significantly more time involved in training as a player than the head coach. Based on the current findings, it appears that the role of the player-coach is likely to shape practice and behaviour. Indeed, we deploy social theory to provide tentative explanations for these key differences.Conclusion: Overall, this paper is among the first to explore the role and practices of the player-coach. Given that player-coaches likely make up a significant proportion of the non-professional sporting industry, much greater research and attention is needed on this area moving forward. In particular, we feel that multiple or mixed-method studies that engage with social theory would be well positioned to develop generative insights into a) intentions behind the deployment of player-coach behaviour, b) actual behaviours engaged, and c) athlete (and others') perceptions of such practice. Doing so would provide significant opportunities to develop bespoke education for this highly specialised - yet under examined - role.		[Vickery, Will] Coaching & Officiating, Sport Australia, Melbourne, Australia; [Bhardwaj, Dhanur; Feros, Simon; Bruce, Lyndell] Deakin Univ, Ctr Sport Res, Sch Exercise & Nutr Sci, Melbourne, Australia; [Nichol, Adam] Northumbria Univ, Dept Sport Exercise & Rehabil, Newcastle, England; [Vickery, Will] Coaching & Officiating, Sport Australia, Melbourne, Australia								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000988202100001	53	Article; Article		
J	Petrovic, Ivana; Amiridis, Ioannis G.; Holobar, Ales; Trypidakis, Georgios; Sahinis, Chrysostomos; Kannas, Theodoros; Kellis, Eleftherios; Enoka, Roger M.								Alternating or Bilateral Exercise Training does not Influence Force Control during Single-Leg Submaximal Contractions with the Dorsiflexors								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				22	2			245	253		10.52082/jssm.2023.245			JUN 2023	2023	The aim of the study was to assess the influence of habitual training history on force steadiness and the discharge characteristics of motor units in tibialis anterior during submaximal isometric contractions. Fifteen athletes whose training emphasized alternating actions (11 runners and 4 cyclists) and fifteen athletes who relied on bilateral actions with leg muscles (7 volleyball players, 8 weight-lifters) performed 2 maximal voluntary contractions (MVC) with the dorsiflexors, and 3 steady contractions at 8 target forces (2.5%, 5%, 10%, 20%, 30%, 40%, 50% and 60% MVC). The discharge characteristics of motor units in tibialis anterior were recorded using high-density electromyography grids. The MVC force and the absolute (standard deviation) and normalized (coefficient of variation) amplitudes of the force fluctuations at all target forces were similar between groups. The coefficient of variation for force decreased progressively from 2.5% to 20% MVC force, then it plateaued until 60% MVC force. Mean discharge rate of the motor units in tibialis anterior was similar at all target forces between groups. The variability in discharge times (coefficient of variation for interspike interval) and the variability in neural drive ( coefficient of variation of filtered cumulative spike train) was also similar for the two groups. These results indicate that athletes who have trained with either alternating or bilateral actions with leg muscles has similar effects on maximal force, force control, and variability in the independent and common synaptic input during a single-limb isometric task with the dorsiflexors.		[Petrovic, Ivana; Amiridis, Ioannis G.; Trypidakis, Georgios; Sahinis, Chrysostomos; Kannas, Theodoros; Kellis, Eleftherios] Aristotle Univ Thessaloniki, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci Serres, Lab Neuromech, Serres 62110, Greece; [Petrovic, Ivana] Univ Nis, Fac Sport & Phys Educ, Nish, Serbia; [Holobar, Ales] Univ Maribor, Fac Elect Engn & Comp Sci, Maribor, Slovenia; [Enoka, Roger M.] Univ Colorado, Dept Integrat Physiol, Boulder, CO USA; [Amiridis, Ioannis G.] Aristotle Univ Thessaloniki, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci Serres, Lab Neuromech, Serres 62110, Greece								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:000986726400001	38	Article; Article		
J	Jara, Daniel; Ortega-Toro, Enrique; Gomez-Ruano, Miguel-angel; Garcia-Angulo, Francisco Javier; Sainz de Baranda, Pilar								Multivariate analysis of goalkeeper actions in youth football								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	2			745	756		10.1177/17479541231173190			APR 2024	2024	There is a lack of studies investigating youth goalkeepers that implement variables that can allow researchers and coaches to better understand the performances of the goalkeepers. For this reason, the aim of the present study was to identify key performance indicators of youth football goalkeepers both defense and attack. The sample was composed of 902 defensive and 896 offensive actions from a convenience sample of 32 matches of 19 teams from the Spanish National Championship of Regional Teams U12. A notational analysis was carried out using an ad hoc instrument to register the technical-tactical actions. Validity was higher than .84. In addition, intra-observer reliability was higher than .90. Classification tree analysis was used to investigate which variables were best predictors of technical actions in defense and precision in attack actions of the goalkeepers. Results showed that in the attacking phase the actions that achieve higher values of precision were those when the ball was played to zone A length and both right and left sides (X-6(2) = 542.034; p = .000). In defense, when the goalkeeper achieve higher values of saves were those when the shot was taken from out of the penalty area and no jump or drop was performed. The present findings contribute to evidence-based practice in fostering young goalkeepers.		[Jara, Daniel; Ortega-Toro, Enrique; Garcia-Angulo, Francisco Javier; Sainz de Baranda, Pilar] Univ Murcia, Fac Sports Sci, Murcia, Spain; [Ortega-Toro, Enrique; Garcia-Angulo, Francisco Javier; Sainz de Baranda, Pilar] SPAA, Sports Performance Anal Assoc, Murcia, Spain; [Gomez-Ruano, Miguel-angel] Univ Politecn Madrid, Dept Sport Sci, Madrid, Spain; [Garcia-Angulo, Francisco Javier] Univ Murcia, Fac Sports Sci, Campus Excellence Mare Nostrum, Murcia 30720, Spain; [Garcia-Angulo, Francisco Javier] Univ Murcia, Fac Sports Sci, Campus Excellence Mare Nostrum, Murcia 30720, Spain								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000985113700001	30	Article; Article		
J	Christian, Ed; Greenlees, Iain A.; Kearney, Philip E.								Flowing with the TIDE: A case study of the nature and development of epistemic beliefs of a high-level adventure sports coach								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	5			1430	1441		10.1177/17479541231170853			OCT 2023	2023	Coaches' beliefs about the nature of knowledge and knowing (their epistemic beliefs) are an integral but under-researched component in the development of a philosophy of coaching. The Theory of Integrated Domains in Epistemology (TIDE)( 1 ) offers a framework which may enhance the understanding of the development of coaches' epistemic beliefs. The present study offers the first application of the TIDE framework to sports coaching. We present a case study of the nature and development of epistemic beliefs of a highly renowned Adventure Sports Coach (ASC), Doug Cooper, through the lens of the TIDE framework. Thematic analysis of a series of semi-structured interviews showed that early childhood experiences, strongly held beliefs about ASC as a domain of knowledge, and educational experiences in the later life were instrumental in shaping Doug's epistemic beliefs. We conclude that the TIDE framework has considerable potential for researchers and coach developers seeking to gain insight into and develop coaches' beliefs.		[Christian, Ed; Greenlees, Iain A.] Univ Chichester, Chichester Inst Sport Nursing & Allied Hlth, Coll Lane, Chichester PO19 6PE, England; [Kearney, Philip E.] Univ Limerick, Hlth Res Inst, Sport & Human Performance Res Ctr, Limerick, Ireland; [Christian, Ed] Univ Chichester, Chichester Inst Sport Nursing & Allied Hlth, Coll Lane, Chichester PO19 6PE, England								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000981473000001	45	Article; Article		
J	Stegmann, Pascal; Matyas, Daniel; Stroebel, Tim								Hype or opportunity? Tokenization as engagement platform in sport marketing								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				24	4			722	736		10.1108/IJSMS-08-2022-0157			OCT 11 2023	2023	PurposeNovel technologies such as tokenization have the potential to disrupt value co-creation in sport marketing. Tokenization in particular has generated a hype in sport marketing by facilitating engagement behavior. However, it remains unclear to what extent tokenization can serve as an engagement platform to enable new and innovative interactions between sport organizations and its network of actors.Design/methodology/approachThe study investigated a tokenized governance platform of a professional sport club as engagement platform by means of a case study applying a multi-method approach combining document analyses and semi-structured interviews with sport management, sport club fans and blockchain experts.FindingsGovernance tokens indeed foster fan engagement by including fans in decision-making processes. The engagement platform is meant to enable two-way communication between fans and professional sport clubs. However, benefits could be overrated, and fans describe concerns about increasing commercialization due to the application of governance tokens. Thus, opportunities must be balanced out to foster engagement of sport club fans.Originality/valueThe findings contribute to extending the phenomenon of tokenization as a financing model and engagement platform in sport marketing. The results show how tokenized governance platforms can be applied in sport marketing and how they contribute to value co-creation in the digital world of sport clubs.		[Stegmann, Pascal; Matyas, Daniel] Univ Bern, Inst Sport Sci, Bern, Switzerland; [Stegmann, Pascal; Stroebel, Tim] Univ Bayreuth, Mkt & Sport Management, Bayreuth, Germany; [Matyas, Daniel] Scrypt Digital, Zug, Switzerland; [Stegmann, Pascal] Univ Bern, Inst Sport Sci, Bern, Switzerland; [Stegmann, Pascal] Univ Bayreuth, Mkt & Sport Management, Bayreuth, Germany								16							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000975334500001	47	Article; Article		
J	Partner, Richard; Tee, Jason; Darrall-Jones, Josh; Jones, Ben								Development of a rugby shoulder function (RSF) questionnaire: An online Delphi study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				61				185	191		10.1016/j.ptsp.2023.04.004			MAY 2023	2023	Objective: Develop a questionnaire to monitor symptoms of player perceived shoulder function/ dysfunction. Design: 3-Stage Online Delphi Study. Methods: Participants: surgeons, sports and exercise medics, academic researchers, strength and con-ditioning coaches, therapists and athletes split by level of expertise/experience. Stage-1: experts (n = 12) rated constructs/items from the steering group and made changes/proposed additional constructs/items. Stage-2: experts rated/amended new constructs/items from stage-1. Stage-3: experienced professionals (n = 25) rated/ranked constructs/items from stage 2. Consensus thresholds were defined per stage (>= 50% agreement/4-5 rating on 1-5 Likert scale (stages 1-2), >= 68% agreement, and items ranked for perceived importance (stage-3)). Results: Stage-1, all four constructs (a. Activities of daily living, b. Range of motion, c. Strength and conditioning, d. Sports specific training and competition) and 26/42 original items achieved consensus. Twelve items were combined into five items. Four new items were also proposed. Stage-2, the combined items and three of the four new items achieved consensus. Stage-3 the four constructs and 22 items all achieved consensus. Conclusions: Following a 3-stage online Delphi process, involving expert and experienced clinicians, practitioners and athletes, a new four construct, 22 item RSF questionnaire has been developed which can be used with rugby players, to monitor perceived shoulder performance and symptoms. Crown Copyright (c) 2023 Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Partner, Richard] Leeds Beckett Univ, Sch Hlth, Musculoskeletal Hlth Res Grp, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England; [Partner, Richard; Tee, Jason; Darrall-Jones, Josh; Jones, Ben] Leeds Beckett Univ, Carnegie Appl Rugby Res CARR Ctr, Carnegie Sch Sport, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England; [Jones, Ben] Leeds Rhinos Rugby League Club, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England; [Jones, Ben] Rugby Football League, England Performance Unit, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England; [Jones, Ben] Univ New England, Sch Sci & Technol, Armidale, NSW, Australia; [Jones, Ben] Univ Cape Town, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Human Biol, Div Exercise Sci & Sports Med, Cape Town, South Africa; [Jones, Ben] Sports Sci Inst South Africa, Cape Town, South Africa; [Tee, Jason] Univ Pretoria, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Physiol, Pretoria, South Africa; [Partner, Richard] Leeds Beckett Univ, CL604,City Campus, Leeds LS1 3HE, W Yorkshire, England; [Partner, Richard] Leeds Beckett Univ, CL604,City Campus, Leeds LS1 3HE, W Yorkshire, England								2							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000989071700001	33	Article; Article		
J	Bodkin, Stephan G.; Diduch, David R.; Brockmeier, Stephen F.; Hart, Joe M.; Bruce, Amelia S.; Werner, Brian C.; Miller, Mark D.; Gwathmey, F. Winston								Influence of interim functional assessments on patient outcomes at the time of return to activity following ACL-reconstruction								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				61				179	184		10.1016/j.ptsp.2023.04.006			MAY 2023	2023	Objective: To compare patient outcomes at the time of the return to activity (RTA) progression between those with a prior interim assessment and those without.Design: Retrospective, Cohort Study. Setting: Controlled Laboratory. Participants: Patients following Anterior Cruciate Ligament Reconstruction (ACLR) were recruited through an ongoing RTA assessment program. Patients were stratified into two testing groups = "Single RTA test": only assessment between 6 and 9 months post-ACLR and "Repeat RTA test": prior assessment performed >2-months before their RTA assessment. Patients were matched based on time post-surgery, age, activity level, and graft type.Main outcome measure: Self-reported knee function and isokinetic knee flexor and extensor strength/ symmetry were compared between groups.Results: 392 patients were identified. Once matched, 138 patients (21.1 +/- 7.0 years, 7.3 +/- 0 .9 mo post-ACLR) were analyzed. Repeat RTA test patients demonstrated higher measures of self-reported knee function (P = .04) and greater knee flexion strength (P = .006) and symmetry (P = .05).Conclusion: Patients with interim functional assessments reported greater self-reported knee function and higher hamstring strength at the time of RTA compared to patients that completed their only assessment within this time point. Early functional assessments may identify individualized deficits that can be addressed while patients are under supervision of rehabilitation specialists.(c) 2023 Published by Elsevier Ltd.		[Bodkin, Stephan G.] Univ Utah, Dept Phys Therapy & Athlet Training, 290 S 1850 HPER W Rm113, Salt Lake City, UT 84112 USA; [Bruce, Amelia S.] Univ Virginia, Dept Kinesiol, VA Mem Gymnasium Rm 206 210 Emmet St So, Charlottesville, VA 22903 USA; [Diduch, David R.; Brockmeier, Stephen F.; Miller, Mark D.; Gwathmey, F. Winston] Univ Virginia, Dept Orthopaed Surg, VA 400 Ray C Hunt Dr,Suite 330 POB 800159, Charlottesville, VA 22908 USA; [Hart, Joe M.] Univ North Carolina Chapel Hill, Dept Orthopaed Surg, NC 102 Mason Farm Rd Second Floor, Chapel Hill, NC 27514 USA; [Bodkin, Stephan G.] Univ Utah, Dept Phys Therapy & Athlet Training, 290 S 1850 HPER W Rm113, Salt Lake City, UT 84112 USA								4							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000988002000001	32	Article; Article		
J	Quintana-Cepedal, Marcos; Rodriguez, Miguel Angel; Nuno-Iglesias, Nerea; Del Valle, Miguel; Crespo, Irene; Olmedillas, Hugo								Injury characteristics of young elite inline speed skaters: A one season retrospective study								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				52	2			181	186		10.1080/00913847.2023.2205454			MAR 3 2024	2024	ObjectivesDetermining the rate of injuries related to a certain sport is accepted as the primary step toward designing, implementing and evaluating injury prevention programs. This observational and retrospective study was to examine the injuries sustained by elite young Spanish inline speed skaters during a season.MethodsAthletes participating in the national championship (n = 80) were surveyed via an anonymous online questionnaire to screen for injury characteristics: incidence, location, and tissue affected; plus training information and demographics.ResultsA total of 52 injuries were recorded across 33,351 hours of exposure, which gives a rate of 1.65/1,000 h. The lower body comprised 79% of the total amount of injuries (1.3/1000 h), and the main areas affected were the thigh and foot, accounting for 25% and 19.2% of the recorded injuries, respectively. Musculotendinous injuries were the most frequent, with an incidence of 0.92/1000 h. No significant gender differences were observed for any of the variables studied.ConclusionSpeed skating can be considered a low injury rate sport based on our findings. The risk of sustaining an injury was independent of gender, age, and BMI.		[Quintana-Cepedal, Marcos; Rodriguez, Miguel Angel; Nuno-Iglesias, Nerea; Crespo, Irene; Olmedillas, Hugo] Univ Oviedo, Dept Funct Biol, Oviedo, Spain; [Del Valle, Miguel] Univ Oviedo, Dept Cellular Morphol & Biol, Oviedo, Spain; [Crespo, Irene] Hlth Res Inst Principal Asturias ISPA, Oviedo, Spain; [Olmedillas, Hugo] Univ Oviedo, Dept Funct Biol, Oviedo, Spain								3							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000973427000001	32	Article; Article		
J	Sousa, Marisa; Goncalves, Celina; Biscaia, Rui; Carvalho, Maria Jose								Service quality, satisfaction and behavioural intentions in sport child camps: participants and parents' perspectives								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				25	1			18	41		10.1108/IJSMS-10-2022-0183			JAN 19 2024	2024	PurposeThis study aims to assess service quality in sport child camps among both participants and parents and its effects on satisfaction and behavioural intentions.Design/methodology/approachData were collected from participants (n = 258) and parents (n = 226) of a sport child camp. A confirmatory factor analysis analysed the psychometric properties of the constructs, and a subsequent structural equation model examined the effects of service quality on satisfaction and behavioural intentions.FindingsThe results indicate a multi-dimensional construct of service quality that influences satisfaction and behavioural intentions differently among parents and participants. For participants, Service Failures and Recovery, Safety and Food influenced satisfaction, while Service Failures and Recovery and Fun influenced Behavioural Intentions. For parents, Management Commitment to Service Quality, Staff, Food and Contact with Physical Environmental influenced satisfaction, while Management Commitment to Service Quality and Staff influenced Behavioural intentions.Research limitations/implicationsBoth parents and participants' perceptions of service quality in sport child camps were captured and its effects on satisfaction and behavioural intentions. The study provides sport child camp managers with critical information about service delivery and its outcomes among the two key consumers (participants and parents).Originality/valueThis study offers new ideas to advance knowledge on sport child camps by capturing the perceptions of two key stakeholders and providing useful insights into how different attributes of service quality influence the levels of satisfaction and behavioural intentions among parents and participants.		[Sousa, Marisa; Carvalho, Maria Jose] Univ Porto, Fac Sport, Ctr Res Educ Innovat & Intervent Sport, Porto, Portugal; [Sousa, Marisa; Goncalves, Celina] Univ Maia, Res Ctr Sports Sci, Hlth Sci & Human Dev CIDESD, Maia, Portugal; [Goncalves, Celina] Polytech Inst Braganca, CIDESD, Braganca, Portugal; [Biscaia, Rui] Univ Bath, Dept Hlth, Bath, Avon, England; [Sousa, Marisa] Univ Porto, Fac Sport, Ctr Res Educ Innovat & Intervent Sport, Porto, Portugal; [Sousa, Marisa] Univ Maia, Res Ctr Sports Sci, Hlth Sci & Human Dev CIDESD, Maia, Portugal								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000971675100001	90	Article; Article		
J	Ribeiro, Tiago; Almeida, Victor; Calapez, Andre; Matsuoka, Hirotaka; Yamashita, Rei								Esports and Olympic Games: a cross-cultural exploration of the player support behaviour towards the Olympics								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				24	4			700	721		10.1108/IJSMS-12-2022-0215			OCT 11 2023	2023	PurposeDespite the advances in theory and practice about player behaviour in esports gaming literature, there is a lack of understanding as to whether esports are compatible with the values of Olympism and if they should be considered for future Games editions. The current study advances this line of research by examining esports player experiences, their effects on perceiving Olympic values, and the support towards the Olympics in order to verify if differences occur according to the cross-cultural environment.Design/methodology/approachUsing a sample of 671 esports amateur gamers from three countries (Portugal, Brazil and Japan), structural equation models and a multigroup analysis were performed to analyse the differences in the hypothesized paths existing between the groups.FindingsResults reveal that player in-game emotional experiences positively influence Olympic values perception across countries. The excellence and friendship values showed a positive effect on support intentions to the Games towards Portuguese and Brazilian players, while the respect value was the strongest predictor towards behavioural intentions in Japan. Cultural backgrounds and game genre in each country can explain player attitude towards the Olympic values shared on the online environment.Originality/valueThis study is able to provide a better understanding of how the Olympic values serve as a gratification in different cross-cultural environments according to the theory of uses and gratifications (U&G) and the theory of cultural dimensions. Complementarily, these findings can be used as valuable information for esports publishers and developers attempting to spread the Olympic values in the esports industry.		[Ribeiro, Tiago; Calapez, Andre] Univ Lisbon, Fac Human Kinet, Lisbon, Portugal; [Ribeiro, Tiago] UAlg CinTurs, Faro, Portugal; [Almeida, Victor] UFRJ Fed Univ Rio de Janeiro, Grad Sch Business, COPPEAD, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil; [Matsuoka, Hirotaka; Yamashita, Rei] Waseda Univ, Fac Sport Sci, NishiTokyo, Japan; [Ribeiro, Tiago] Univ Lisbon, Fac Human Kinet, Lisbon, Portugal; [Ribeiro, Tiago] UAlg CinTurs, Faro, Portugal								16							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000969995300001	72	Article; Article		
J	Anderson, David; Wilson, Iseult; Cathcart, John; Kerr, Daniel								Players' and parents' perceptions of injury in elite Northern Irish schools' rugby- A qualitative study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				61				172	178		10.1016/j.ptsp.2023.04.005			MAY 2023	2023	Objectives: To explore schools' rugby players' and their parents' perceptions of injury. Design: A qualitative study using focus groups. Setting: Schools who compete in the Ulster Schools' Cup competition. Participants: 13 players and 9 parents. Outcome measures: A thematic analysis approach was used to examine players' and parents' beliefs and attitudes towards injury, return to play and injury risk. Results: Findings suggest schools' rugby players and their parents are aware of injury risk in the schoolboy game. They are aware of concussion injury but are less aware of musculoskeletal injury. Parents' perceptions of injury are based on their experience of their sons' injuries. Parents are unaware of return to play strategies for musculoskeletal injury. Conclusions: Schools' rugby players and their parents are aware of injury to some extent, however players' and parents' knowledge and understanding of injury is based on and informed by personal experience, not the evidence base. Whist they are aware of injury, many players will seek to push their fears to the back of their mind. However, for those players who have suffered severe injury, they are concerned about the risk of reinjury. (c) 2023 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/).		[Anderson, David] Ulster Univ, Life & Hlth Sci, Belfast, North Ireland; [Wilson, Iseult] Queens Univ Belfast, Sch Nursing & Midwifery, Belfast, North Ireland; [Wilson, Iseult] Mohammed Bin Rashid Univ, Coll Nursing & Midwifery, Dubai, U Arab Emirates; [Cathcart, John; Kerr, Daniel] Ulster Univ, Inst Nursing & Hlth Res, Sch Hlth Sci, Belfast, North Ireland; [Anderson, David] Ulster Univ, 2-24 York St, Belfast BT15 1AP, North Ireland; [Anderson, David] Ulster Univ, 2-24 York St, Belfast BT15 1AP, North Ireland								2							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000985821400001	28	Article; Article		
J	Patoz, Aurelien; Lussiana, Thibault; Breine, Bastiaan; Mourot, Laurent; Gindre, Cyrille; Hebert-Losier, Kim								Concurrent endurance training with either plyometric or dynamic body-weight training both improve running economy with minimal or no changes in running biomechanics								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	10			3013	3030		10.1080/14763141.2023.2200403			OCT 3 2025	2025	We compared the effects of two 8-week concurrent strength and endurance trainings (CSETs) on running economy (RE) and running biomechanics, and we explored whether the effects on running biomechanics were mediated by responder status [high vs low responder based on -2.6% change in RE]. Thirty-one male recreational runners were randomly assigned to a standard endurance running training combined with either plyometric (CSET-PLY) or dynamic body-weight (CSET-DYN) training. RE and running biomechanics [contact (tc) and flight (tf) time, step frequency (SF), duty factor (DF), and leg stiffness (kleg)] were measured pre- and postintervention. RE significantly improved following CSET (RE = -2.1 +/- 3.9%; p = 0.005) and no changes in tc, DF, SF, and k(leg) (p >= 0.10) but a shorter t(f) (p >= 0.03) from pre- to post-intervention were seen. The prevalence of high responders was 42% (RE = -5.7 +/- 2.4%). Among high responders, there were no changes in running biomechanics except participants following CSET-DYN who increased their SF (+3%). These results indicate that improvements in RE obtained through CSET-PLY and CSET-DYN involve minimal to no changes in running biomechanics and that there was not a training modality, which was better than the other. More detailed biomechanical assessments involving kinematics, kinetics, and electromyography could shed light on the underlying mechanisms of RE improvement.		[Patoz, Aurelien] Univ Lausanne, Inst Sport Sci, Lausanne, Switzerland; [Patoz, Aurelien; Lussiana, Thibault; Breine, Bastiaan; Gindre, Cyrille] Volodalen Swiss Sportlab, Res & Dev Dept, Aigle, Switzerland; [Lussiana, Thibault; Gindre, Cyrille] Volodalen, Res & Dev Dept, Chaveria, France; [Lussiana, Thibault; Mourot, Laurent] Univ Franche Comte, Res Unit EA3920 Prognost Factors & Regulatory Fact, Exercise Performance Hlth Innovat EPHI Platform, Besancon, France; [Breine, Bastiaan] Univ Ghent, Dept Movement & Sports Sci, Ghent, Belgium; [Mourot, Laurent] Tomsk Polytech Univ, Div Phys Educ, Tomsk, Russia; [Hebert-Losier, Kim] Univ Waikato, Te Huataki Waiora Sch Hlth, Div Hlth Engn Comp & Sci, Tauranga, New Zealand; [Patoz, Aurelien] Univ Lausanne, Inst Sport Sci, Lausanne, Switzerland; [Patoz, Aurelien] Volodalen Swiss Sportlab, Res & Dev Dept, Aigle, Switzerland								7							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000973549900001	49	Article; Article		
J	Guermont, Henri; Mittelheisser, Gaeeurotan; Reboursiere, Emmanuel; Gauthier, Antoine; Drigny, Joffrey								Shoulder muscle imbalance as a risk factor for shoulder injury in elite badminton players: A prospective study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				61				149	155		10.1016/j.ptsp.2023.04.002			MAY 2023	2023	Objectives: To assess the impact of preseason shoulder testing on the risk of significant shoulder injury (SSI) in elite badminton players.Design: Prospective cohort study.Setting: Secondary care, academic medical center. Participants: Nineteen elite badminton players (19.37 +/- 4.79 years, n = 13 males).Main outcome measures: At preseason, they had shoulder examination tests including the table-to-acromion distance and the glenohumeral rotation range of motion. The glenohumeral internal rotation deficit (GIRD) was calculated. Isokinetic internal and external rotator shoulder muscle strength was tested at 60 degrees/s (concentric and eccentric modes) and 240 degrees/s (concentric mode). Bilateral strength ratio (non-dominant:dominant) and unilateral agonist:antagonist conventional and functional ratios (FR: eccentric-to-concentric) were calculated.Results: During the follow-up time of 38 weeks, SSIs were assessed by an experienced sport physician and 42% of the participants sustained at least one SSI at their dominant side. The preseason GIRD and FR at 240 degrees/s (FR240) were independently associated with SSIs (G2 = 6.28, p = .012 and G2 = 6.23, p = .013, respectively). FR240 < 0.69 (odds ratio = 28.0) and GIRD> 14 degrees (odds ratio = 36.14) were predictors for SSIs.Conclusions: Lower functional deceleration ratio and greater GIRD are associated with a higher risk of SSI at the dominant side in elite badminton players.(c) 2023 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Guermont, Henri; Reboursiere, Emmanuel; Drigny, Joffrey] Normandie Univ, UNICAEN, CHU Caen Normandie, Serv Med Sport, Caen, France; [Mittelheisser, Gaeeurotan] French Natl Inst Sports INSEP, Dept Sport Med, Paris, France; [Gauthier, Antoine; Drigny, Joffrey] UNICAEN, INSERM, COMETE, GIP CYCERON, Caen, France; [Drigny, Joffrey] Normandie Univ, UNICAEN, CHU Caen Normandie, Serv Med Phys & Readaptat, Caen, France; [Drigny, Joffrey] CHU Caen, Med Phys & Readaptat, Ave Cote Nacre, F-14000 Caen, France; [Drigny, Joffrey] CHU Caen, Med Phys & Readaptat, Ave Cote Nacre, F-14000 Caen, France								19							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000983514200001	43	Article; Article		
J	Jonson, Andrew M. M.; Girard, Olivier; Walden, Thomas P. P.; Marston, Kieran J. J.; Scott, Brendan R. R.								Hypoxia Does Not Impair Resistance Exercise Performance or Amplify Post-Exercise Fatigue								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				95	1			235	242		10.1080/02701367.2023.2193232			JAN 2 2024	2024	Purpose: To determine whether performing resistance exercise in hypoxia acutely reduces performance and increases markers of fatigue, and whether these responses are exaggerated if exercising at high versus low work rates (i.e., exercising to failure or volume matched non-failure). Methods: Following a within-subject design, 20 men completed two trials in hypoxia (13% oxygen) and two in normoxia (21% oxygen). The first session for hypoxic and normoxic conditions comprised six sets of bench press and shoulder press to failure (high work rate), while subsequent sessions involved the same volume distributed over 12 sets (low work rate). Physical performance (concentric velocity) and perceptual responses were measured during exercise and for 72 hr post-exercise. Neuromuscular performance (bench throw velocity) was assessed pre- and post-session. Results: Hypoxia did not affect physical performance, neuromuscular performance, and perceptual recovery when exercising at high or low work rates. Higher work rate exercise caused greater acute decrements in physical performance and post-exercise neuromuscular performance and increased perceived exertion and muscle soreness (p = 0.006), irrespective of hypoxia. Conclusions: Hypoxia does not impact on resistance exercise performance or increase markers of physical and perceptual fatigue. Higher exercise work rates may impair physical performance, and exaggerate fatigue compared to low work rate exercise, irrespective of environmental condition. Practitioners can prescribe hypoxic resistance exercise without compromising physical performance or inducing greater levels of fatigue. For athletes who are required to train with high frequency, decreasing exercise work rate may reduce post-exercise markers of fatigue for the same training volume.		[Jonson, Andrew M. M.; Walden, Thomas P. P.; Marston, Kieran J. J.; Scott, Brendan R. R.] Murdoch Univ, Murdoch, Australia; [Girard, Olivier] Univ Western Australia, Perth, Australia; [Scott, Brendan R. R.] Murdoch Univ, Room 2-020,Bldg 440,90 South St, Murdoch, WA 6150, Australia; [Scott, Brendan R. R.] Murdoch Univ, Room 2-020,Bldg 440,90 South St, Murdoch, WA 6150, Australia								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000969436900001	23	Article; Article		
J	Fujimoto, Masahiro; Sato, Masaomi; Nagano, Akinori; Rogers, Mark W.; Isaka, Tadao								Preparatory knee flexion movement facilitates faster sideways jumping execution in male collegiate soccer goalkeepers								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	1			80	94		10.1080/14763141.2023.2197876			JAN 2 2025	2025	Preparatory lower-limb loading conditions may affect the jump-to-reach performance of soccer goalkeepers. This study investigated the effect of pre-jump lower-limb loading/unloading during bilateral knee flexion-extension movements on sideways jump-to-reach performance in 18 male collegiate soccer goalkeepers. Participants performed the two-choice (high and low targets) reaction-time single-leg jump-to-reach task under two conditions: without preparatory movements (no-prep) and with continuous alternating knee extension and flexion movements (prep). The 'go' cue was provided with different preparatory loading conditions during the pre-jump knee extension and flexion phases. Performance was assessed using three-dimensional kinematic data and ground reaction forces. A significant main effect of the preparatory condition was observed for the jump take-off time. Pairwise comparisons revealed that the jump take-off time was 3.4-4.4% faster when initiated during the knee flexion phase than the no-prep condition and the extension phase (p=.028). Increasing lower-limb loading and downward body movement with knee flexion appeared to facilitate effective loading to take-off to reach the high target and faster downward-directed take-off to reach the low target, respectively. Pre-jump knee flexion movement could be utilised by soccer goalkeepers to facilitate faster take-off to maximise their chances of saving shots within the reach of single-leg side-jumping.		[Fujimoto, Masahiro] Natl Inst Adv Ind Sci & Technol, Human Augmentat Res Ctr, Kashiwa, Chiba, Japan; [Sato, Masaomi; Nagano, Akinori; Isaka, Tadao] Ritsumeikan Univ, Coll Sport & Hlth Sci, Kusatsu, Shiga, Japan; [Rogers, Mark W.] Univ Maryland, Sch Med, Dept Phys Therapy & Rehabil Sci, Baltimore, MD USA; [Fujimoto, Masahiro] Natl Inst Adv Ind Sci & Technol, Human Augmentat Res Ctr, Kashiwa, Chiba, Japan								1							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000968383400001	29	Article; Article		
J	Gjestvang, Christina; Tangen, Elene Mauseth; Arntzen, Miriam Basma; Haakstad, Lene A. H.								How Do Fitness Club Members Differentiate in Background Characteristics, Exercise Motivation, and Social Support? A Cross-Sectional Study								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				22	2			235	244		10.52082/jssm.2023.235			JUN 2023	2023	Fitness clubs are one of the largest exercise arenas worldwide. Still, membership withdrawal and exercise dropout rates are 40-65% in the first six months. One important approach to retaining members may be to create an environment that feels inclusive, and clusters members with mutual needs and interests. Increased knowledge in this field can provide valuable information that leads to more effective exercise promotion strategies and better retention rates, important to the long-term success of the gym and public health. Thus, we aimed to compare background factors, motivation, and social support between members of multipurpose (wide range of exercise concepts/facilities, middle to high membership fee), fitness-only (low membership fee), and boutique (one or two specialized exercise concepts, high membership fee) fitness clubs. A total of 232 members from multipurpose (n = 107), fitness-only (n = 52), and boutique gyms (n = 73) were recruited for this cross-sectional study. Data included background variables (age, gender, body weight and height, smoking, total household income, occupation, education, and general health), exercise behaviour, exercise motivation, and social support. A one-way between-group ANOVA with Bonferroni correction or a chi-square test was used as appropriate. Multipurpose and fitness-only members were older (mean diff: 9.1 years, p = <0.001) and exercised less (mean diff: 1 - 1.2 sessions/week, p = <0.001) than members from boutique clubs. Compared with multipurpose and fitness-only members, members from boutique clubs reported the highest autonomous motivation (intrinsic regulation: mean diff: 0.3, p = 0.030), and perceived greater social support from family/friends (mean diff: 6.4 to 6.6, p = <0.001). Boutique members were younger, exercised more, and reported higher autonomous motivation and social support than multipurpose and fitness-only members. Our results suggest that exercise enjoyment and a social community, the "philosophy" of boutique gyms, may be important for regular exercise.		[Gjestvang, Christina; Tangen, Elene Mauseth; Arntzen, Miriam Basma; Haakstad, Lene A. H.] Norwegian Sch Sports Sci, Dept Sports Med, POB 4014, N-0806 Oslo, Norway; [Gjestvang, Christina] Norwegian Sch Sports Sci, Dept Sports Med, POB 4014, N-0806 Oslo, Norway								10							Sport Sciences	WOS:000972654300001	67	Article; Article		
J	Filipas, Luca; Rossi, Carlo; Codella, Roberto; Bonato, Matteo								Mental Fatigue Impairs Second Serve Accuracy in Tennis Players								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				95	1			190	196		10.1080/02701367.2023.2174488			JAN 2 2024	2024	Purpose: The aim of this 2-week randomized, counterbalance and crossover study was to investigate the effect of acute mental fatigue (MF) on tennis serve performance and accuracy in tennis players. Methods: Ten male tennis players (18 +/- 4 years, 1.80 +/- 0.08 m; 71 +/- 13 kg) were randomized to either the MF group (N = 5) that underwent an acute MF protocol or to a control (CON) group (N = 5). The MF condition consisted in a 30-min modified Stroop color word task performed before on-court serve speed test. A visual analogue scale (VAS) was used to assess the perceptions of MF and motivation toward the upcoming technical tests. Results: Reduction over baseline score of Stroop test was noted in accuracy (N < .001), but not in reaction time (N = .968) in the MF group. Increments in perceived workload were detected (N < .001) in MF group compared to CON. No differences for first and second serve speed from deuce and advantage side were observed. Increment of percentage of failed second serves from the deuce side (N = .043) in MF were detected. Conclusions: An acute MF protocol reduced tennis serve accuracy from deuce side in male tennis players. Players should avoid cognitive efforts before training sessions and matches to prevent negative effects of their technical performance.		[Filipas, Luca; Rossi, Carlo; Codella, Roberto; Bonato, Matteo] Univ Milan, Milan, Italy; [Filipas, Luca; Codella, Roberto] IRCCS MultiMed, Sesto San Giovanni, Italy; [Bonato, Matteo] IRCCS Ist Ortoped Galeazzi, Milan, Italy; [Filipas, Luca] Univ Milan, Dept Biomed Sci Hlth, Via Flli Cervi 93, I-20090 Milan, Segrate, Italy; [Filipas, Luca] Univ Milan, Dept Biomed Sci Hlth, Via Flli Cervi 93, I-20090 Milan, Segrate, Italy								11							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000967824600001	37	Article; Article		
J	Nose-Ogura, Sayaka; Yoshino, Osamu; Kamoto-Nakamura, Hiroe; Kanatani, Mayuko; Harada, Miyuki; Hiraike, Osamu; Saito, Shigeru; Fujii, Tomoyuki; Osuga, Yutaka								Age and menstrual cycle may be important in establishing pregnancy in female athletes after retirement from competition								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				52	2			175	180		10.1080/00913847.2023.2199687			MAR 3 2024	2024	Background: Although it has been shown that amenorrhea associated with low energy availability or relative energy deficiency in sport affects body physiology in female athletes, the association between menstrual dysfunction during active sports careers and reproductive function after retirement is not clear. Objective: To investigate the association between menstrual dysfunction during their active sports career and post-retirement infertility in female athletes. Methods: A voluntary web-based survey was aimed at former female athletes who had become pregnant and gave birth to their first child after retirement. Nine multiple-choice questions were included, on maternal age, competition levels and menstrual cycles during active sports careers, time from retirement to pregnancy, the time of resumption of spontaneous menstruation after retirement, conception method, and mode of delivery, etc. Regarding cases of primary and secondary amenorrhea among the abnormal menstrual cycle group, only those whose spontaneous menstruation had not recovered from retirement to the time of pregnancy were included in the study. The association between the presence of abnormal menstrual cycles from active sports careers to post-retirement pregnancy and the implementation of infertility treatment was evaluated. Results: The study population included 613 female athletes who became pregnant and gave birth to their first child after retiring from competitive sports. Of the 613 former athletes, the infertility treatment rate was 11.9%. The rate of infertility treatment was significantly higher in athletes with abnormal than normal menstrual cycles (17.1% vs. 10.2%, p = 0.0225). Multivariable logistic regression analysis showed that maternal age (adjusted odds ratio [OR] 1.194; 95% confidence interval [CI] 1.129, 1.262) and abnormal menstrual cycles (OR and 1.903; adjusted OR 1.105, 3.278) were the relevant factors for infertility treatment. Conclusion: It was suggested that menstrual dysfunction that persist from active sports careers to post-retirement may be a factor in infertility when trying to conceive after retirement.		[Nose-Ogura, Sayaka; Kamoto-Nakamura, Hiroe; Kanatani, Mayuko; Harada, Miyuki; Hiraike, Osamu; Osuga, Yutaka] Univ Tokyo, Dept Obstet & Gynecol, Tokyo, Japan; [Yoshino, Osamu] Yamanashi Univ, Dept Obstet & Gynecol, Yamanashi, Japan; [Saito, Shigeru] Univ Toyama, Dept Obstet & Gynecol, Toyama, Japan; [Fujii, Tomoyuki] Sanno Hosp, Dept Obstet & Gynecol, Tokyo, Japan; [Nose-Ogura, Sayaka] Univ Tokyo, Dept Obstet & Gynecol, Tokyo, Japan								4							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000967820700001	37	Article; Article		
J	Riera, Jerome; Duclos, Noemie C.; Neri, Thomas; Rambaud, Alexandre J.								Is there any biomechanical justification to use hopping as a return to running test? A cross-sectional study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				61				135	141		10.1016/j.ptsp.2023.03.008			MAY 2023	2023	Objective: To assess the agreement and the correlation between asymmetry indexes of leg stiffness (AI(Kleg)) in running and hopping and the correlation between leg stiffness (Kleg) in running and hopping.Design: Cross-sectional study.Setting: Clinical facility.Participants: Twelve healthy runners (5 women and 7 men; mean (SD) age = 36.6 (10.1) years; activity level = 6.4 (0.9) on Tegner scale). Main outcome measures: A treadmill instrumented by photoelectric cells was used to collect data (flight and contact times) during running assessment (preferential and imposed velocity (3.33 m s-1) and during a hopping test. Kleg and AI(Kleg) were computed for each modality. Correlation tests were per-formed, and Bland Altman's plot was created. Results: A significant and large correlation was found between Kleg in hopping and running at imposed speed (r = 0.6, p = 0.001). An acceptable agreement was found between the AIs in hopping and running, with a bias of 0.04 (-0.15-0.06) at imposed speed and 0.03 (-0.13-0.07) at preferred speed.Conclusion: Our results suggest that testing an athlete for asymmetry in hopping might help to under-stand what happens in running. For this purpose, further research is needed, especially in an injured population, to better understand the association between biomechanical asymmetry in hopping and running.(c) 2023 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Riera, Jerome] Physiotherapy Private Practice, 225 Rue Amiral Hebrard, F-40600 Biscarrosse, France; [Riera, Jerome; Duclos, Noemie C.; Neri, Thomas; Rambaud, Alexandre J.] Univ Lyon, Univ Jean Monnet St Etienne, Interuniv Lab Human Movement Biol, EA 7424, F-42055 St Etienne 2, France; [Duclos, Noemie C.] Univ Bordeaux, INSERM, BPH, U1219, F-33000 Bordeaux, France; [Duclos, Noemie C.] Univ Bordeaux, Coll Sci Sante, IUSR, F-33000 Bordeaux, France; [Neri, Thomas; Rambaud, Alexandre J.] Univ Hosp Ctr St Etienne, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Serv Chirurg Orthoped, Hop Nord, F-42055 St Etienne 2, France; [Riera, Jerome] Univ Lyon, Univ Jean Monnet St Etienne, Interuniv Lab Human Movement Biol, EA 7424, F-42055 St Etienne 2, France								3							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000977957400001	47	Article; Article		
J	Casado-Robles, Carolina; Mayorga-Vega, Daniel; Guijarro-Romero, Santiago; Viciana, Jesus								Validity of the Xiaomi Mi Band 2, 3, 4 and 5 Wristbands for Assessing Physical Activity in 12-to-18-Year-Old Adolescents under Unstructured Free-Living Conditions. Fit-Person Study								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				22	2			196	211		10.52082/jssm.2023.196			JUN 2023	2023	The purpose was to assess the validity of four generations of Xiaomi Mi Band wristbands for the assessment of step count and physical activity (PA) levels among adolescents aged 12- 18 years under free-living conditions. One hundred adolescents were invited to participate in the present study. The final sample consisted of 62 high-school students (34 females), aged 12 - 18 years old (M-age = 14.1 +/- 1.6 years), who wore an ActiGraph accelerometer on their hip (PA and step count reference measures) and four activity wristbands (Xiaomi Mi Band 2, 3, 4, and 5) on their non-dominant wrist during the waking time of one day. Results showed that the agreement between daily PA levels (i.e., slow, brisk, and slow-brisk pace walking, total PA and moderate-to-vigorous PA) measured by Xiaomi Mi Band wristbands and the accelerometer were poor (ICC, 95% CI = 0.06 - 0.78, 0.00 - 0.92; MAPE = 50.1 - 150.6%). However, agreement between daily step count measured by the accelerometer and the Xiaomi Mi Band wristbands were between acceptable (MAPE = 12.2 - 13.6%) to excellent (ICC, 95% CI = 0.94 - 0.95, 0.90 - 0.97). Furthermore, the Xiaomi Mi Band wristbands have a good to excellent validity for correctly classifying adolescents as meeting or not meeting the recommended 10,000 steps per day (P = 0.89 - 0.95, k = 0.71 - 0.87) and the recommended 60 minutes of moderate-to-vigorous PA per day (P = 0.89 - 0.94, k = 0.69 - 0.83). Furthermore, comparability between the four Xiaomi Mi Band generations were poor to excellent (ICC, 95% CI = 0.22 - 0.99, 0.00 - 1.00) for the daily PA levels outputs, although it was excellent (ICC, 95% CI = 0.99 - 1.00, 0.96 - 1.00; MAPE = 0.0 - 0.1%) for daily step count. Different models of Xiaomi Mi Band wristbands were comparable and presented good validity for measuring adolescents' step count, and they accurately classified adolescents as meeting or not meeting the PA recommendations under free-living conditions.		[Casado-Robles, Carolina; Viciana, Jesus] Univ Granada, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Granada, Spain; [Mayorga-Vega, Daniel] Univ Malaga, Fac Ciencias Educ, Dept Didact Lenguas Artes & Deporte, Malaga, Spain; [Guijarro-Romero, Santiago] Univ Valladolid, Dept Didact Mus Plast & Corporal Express, Valladolid, Spain; [Guijarro-Romero, Santiago] Univ Valladolid, Dept Didact Mus Plast & Corporal Express, Fac Educ & Social Work, Paseo Belen 1, Valladolid 47011, Spain								22							Sport Sciences	WOS:000967915400001	66	Article; Article		
J	Hernandez-Belmonte, Alejandro; Alegre, Luis M.; Courel-Ibanez, Javier								Velocity-Based Resistance Training in Soccer: Practical Applications and Technical Considerations								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				45	2			140	148		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000707			APR 2023	2023	Since 2010, the velocity-based approach (VBT) has been established as a reliable method to be used during resistance training (RT) interventions. VBT lies in the monitoring of the barbell velocity during the concentric phase of an exercise, which is a direct consequence of the force applied by the athlete to the external load. VBT offers coaches and physical trainers of soccer teams a wide spectrum of practical applications. Considering the close association between the barbell velocity and the relative intensity (i.e., load-velocity relationship), practitioners could ensure "on the go" that players train very close to the programmed load in each training set. Methodologies derived from the VBT, such as the velocity loss or the "level of effort," allow to plan and control the intraset fatigue to be incurred by the soccer players during RT. Incorporating the barbell velocity monitoring into the testing routine would permit the determination of the changes in strength across the entire spectrum of loads and offer a valid and practical proposal to evaluate the neuromuscular recovery status. The current article aimed to review in-depth the above-mentioned practical applications and some technological and technical aspects to consider when implementing the VBT in soccer.		[Hernandez-Belmonte, Alejandro; Courel-Ibanez, Javier] Univ Murcia, Fac Sport Sci, Human Performance & Sports Sci Lab, Murcia, Spain; [Alegre, Luis M.] Univ Castilla La Mancha, Fac Sport Sci, GENUD Toledo Res Grp, Toledo, Spain; [Alegre, Luis M.] CIBER Fra & Hlth Aging CIBERFES, Madrid, Spain; [Courel-Ibanez, Javier] Charles Univ Prague, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Dept Physiol & Biochem, Prague, Czech Republic; [Courel-Ibanez, Javier] Univ Murcia, Fac Sport Sci, Human Performance & Sports Sci Lab, Murcia, Spain; [Courel-Ibanez, Javier] Charles Univ Prague, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Dept Physiol & Biochem, Prague, Czech Republic								6							Sport Sciences	WOS:000961336200002	64	Article; Article		
J	Wang, Zhiqiang; Zhong, Yaping; Wang, Sugai								Anthropometric, Physiological, and Physical Profile of Elite Snowboarding Athletes								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				45	2			131	139		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000718			APR 2023	2023	A successful snowboarding performance is a multifactorial accomplishment resulting from a complex interaction of the major fitness components. This review aimed to examine the anthropometric, physiological, and physical profiles of elite snowboarding athletes. A database search was performed in the China National Knowledge Infrastructure, PubMed, SPORT Discus, and Web of Science. The findings indicate that (a) elite speed-based and skill-based athletes generally had low body fat percentages. The height and body mass of men speed-based athletes are slightly larger than those of skill-based athletes. (b) The energy system predominantly engaged in is anaerobic metabolism. Muscle oxidative metabolism could help to promote recovery in the repeated high-intensity runs. (c) Top levels of lower-body strength, especially the eccentric force production and explosive concentric power production of athletes, have a determinant role in rapid riding and turning, jump amplitude, trick difficulty, and successful landing. The take-off velocity of skill-based snowboarding and the starting and turning speed of speed-based snowboarding also have a major effect on success in competitions. Further research is warranted to investigate the anthropometry, the relative energy system contributions from aerobic and anaerobic metabolism, and the effect of physical training on performance while considering the possible differentiated effects of different snowboarding disciplines.		[Wang, Zhiqiang; Zhong, Yaping; Wang, Sugai] Wuhan Sports Univ, Sports Big Data Res Ctr, Wuhan, Peoples R China; [Zhong, Yaping] Wuhan Sports Univ, Sports Big Data Res Ctr, Wuhan, Peoples R China								10							Sport Sciences	WOS:000961336200001	46	Article; Article		
J	Pimenta, Ricardo; Almeida, Pedro; Correia, Jose P.; Bruno, Paula M.; Vaz, Joao R.; Freitas, Sandro R.								Effects of fatigue on hamstrings and gluteus maximus shear modulus in hip extension and knee flexion submaximal contraction task								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	10			2999	3012		10.1080/14763141.2023.2195827			OCT 3 2025	2025	This study examined the effects of fatigue on hamstring muscles and gluteus maximus passive and active shear modulus in hip extension (HE) and knee flexion (KF) at 20% of maximal voluntary isometric contraction performed until task failure. Measurements were taken before and after the fatigue tasks and the delta (post-pre) was calculated. No differences in the fatigue effects on passive shear modulus were seen between muscles nor between tasks. For the active shear modulus: a task x muscle interaction was seen (p = 0.002; eta(2)(p) = 0.401). The results for the tasks separately demonstrated only a significant effect for muscle in KF (p < 0.001; eta(2)(p) = 0.598), with different individual contributions identified between BFlh-SM (p = 0.006; d = 1.10), BFlh-ST (p = 0.001; d = 1.35) and SM-ST (p = 0.020; d = 0.91). The comparisons between tasks for each muscle demonstrated significant differences for SM (p = 0.025; d = 0.60) and ST (p = 0.026; d = 0.60); however, no differences were seen for BFlh (p = 0.062; d = 0.46). Therefore, fatigue effects induce different patterns on the hamstring muscles in HE and KF tasks when performed at 20% MVIC.		[Pimenta, Ricardo; Almeida, Pedro; Correia, Jose P.; Bruno, Paula M.; Vaz, Joao R.; Freitas, Sandro R.] Univ Lisbon, Fac Motricidade Humana, CIPER, Cruz Quebrada Dafundo, Portugal; [Vaz, Joao R.] Egas Moniz Cooperat Ensino Super, Setubal, Portugal; [Pimenta, Ricardo] Univ Lisbon, Fac Motricidade Humana, CIPER, Cruz Quebrada Dafundo, Portugal								7							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000961202300001	46	Article; Article		
J	Lee, Seungjoo; Kwon, Sungho; Jang, Dojin; Kwon, Hyojung								The effect of coach-athlete fit on the coach-athlete relationship in team sport: Role of trust in coach								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	4			986	993		10.1177/17479541231164771			AUG 2023	2023	The purpose of this study was to verify the structural relationship among trust in coach, coach-athlete fit, and coach-athlete relationship. It verified the mediating effect trust in coach on relationships, in relation to coach-athlete fit and coach-athlete relationship. A total of 190 soccer players (N = 190, male; 135, female; 55) registered with the Korea Football Association responded to the survey; and their career in soccer about 6.8 years. Data analysis was conducted using descriptive statistics, confirmatory factor analysis, correlation analysis, structural equation modeling. As expected, coach-athlete fit and trust in coach were significantly related to coach-athlete relationship; in addition, the structural relationship among the three variables was significant. Finally, mediating effect of trust in coach between coach-athlete fit and coach-athlete relationship was showed significantly.		[Lee, Seungjoo; Kwon, Sungho; Jang, Dojin; Kwon, Hyojung] Seoul Natl Univ, Dept Phys Educ, 1 Gwanak Ro, Seoul, South Korea; [Kwon, Sungho] Seoul Natl Univ, Inst Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ, Seoul, South Korea; [Kwon, Sungho] Seoul Natl Univ, Dept Phys Educ, 1 Gwanak Ro, Seoul, South Korea								12							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000958055400001	33	Article; Article		
J	Havira, Phil; Brewer, Britton W. W.; Van Raalte, Judy L. L.; Jennison, Donovan; France, Thaddeus J. J.								Not much "I" in "Team": Content analysis of pregame speeches in American football								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	2			620	627		10.1177/17479541231165135			APR 2024	2024	Although researchers have explored the effects of coach pregame speeches, little is known about the actual content, delivery, and environmental context of the speeches themselves. This study was a descriptive analysis of 127 (n = 77 intercollegiate, n = 37 high school, and n = 13 cinematic) American football pregame speeches. The speeches were viewed, transcribed, coded, and analyzed via the Linguistic Inquiry and Word Count (LIWC2015) software program. Actual speeches were compared with natural speech norms and speeches appearing in movies pertaining to American football. In general, the pregame speeches were characterized by use of confident, analytical, motivational, emotionally tinged language that is collectively oriented and present and future focused. The speeches delivered to high school teams were substantially similar to those delivered to intercollegiate teams. The actual speeches differed from natural speech on numerous variables and from the cinematic speeches on some descriptive variables. The findings suggest that actual American football pregame speeches are fundamentally similar to cinematic American football pregame speeches and constitute a distinct form of communication that is tailored to the unique demands of the situation.		[Havira, Phil; Brewer, Britton W. W.; Van Raalte, Judy L. L.; Jennison, Donovan; France, Thaddeus J. J.] Springfield Coll, Dept Psychol, Springfield, MA 01109 USA; [Van Raalte, Judy L. L.] Wuhan Sports Univ, Coll Hlth Sci, Wuhan, Peoples R China; [Brewer, Britton W. W.] Springfield Coll, Dept Psychol, Springfield, MA 01109 USA								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000954789200001	23	Article; Article		
J	Guo, Guodong; Humphreys, Brad R.; Wang, Qiangchang; Zhou, Yang								Attractive or Aggressive? A Face Recognition and Machine Learning Approach for Estimating Returns to Visual Appearance								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				24	6			737	758		10.1177/15270025231160769			AUG 2023	2023	This paper provides a methodological contribution by illustrating the use of computer vision and machine learning methods to identify facial characteristics for the study of facial characteristics in economics. We analyze facial appearance premia for head football coaches at big-time college sports programs to illustrate this methodology. Specifically, we estimate facial attractiveness and aggressiveness premia using quantitative measures of these characteristics from a neural network approach applied to observable facial features. Parametric regression results show evidence of a salary discount for attractive employees along with evidence of an aggressiveness premium. Nonparametric gradient results provide similar qualitative implications.		[Guo, Guodong] West Virginia Univ, Benjamin M Statler Coll Engn & Mineral Resources, Lane Dept Comp Sci & Elect Engn, Morgantown, WV USA; [Humphreys, Brad R.] West Virginia Univ, John Chambers Coll Business & Econ, Dept Econ, Morgantown, WV USA; [Wang, Qiangchang] Shandong Univ, Sch Software, Jinan, Shandong, Peoples R China; [Zhou, Yang] Univ North Texas, Coll Liberal Arts & Social Sci, Dept Econ, Denton, TX USA; [Zhou, Yang] Coll Liberal Arts & Social Sci, Dept Econ, 1155 Union Circle 311457, Denton, TX 76203 USA; [Zhou, Yang] Coll Liberal Arts & Social Sci, Dept Econ, 1155 Union Circle 311457, Denton, TX 76203 USA								4							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000951294700001	26	Article; Article		
J	Jo, Iseul; Lee, Hae-Dong								Joint Coordination and Muscle-Tendon Interaction Differ Depending on The Level of Jumping Performance								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				22	2			189	195		10.52082/jssm.2023.189			JUN 2023	2023	The countermovement jump is a popular measurement modality to evaluate muscle power in sports and exercise. Muscle power is essential to achieve a high jump, yet the well-coordinated movement of the body segments, which optimizes the stretch-shortening cycle (SSC) effects, is also required. Among the proposed explanations of SSC effects, this study investigated whether the ankle joint kinematics, kinetics, and muscle-tendon interaction depend on the level of jump skill and the jump task. Sixteen healthy males were grouped as a function of their jump height (High jumpers; greater than 50 cm, Low jumpers; less than 50 cm). They were instructed to jump with two intensities; light effort (20 % of their height) and maximal effort. Joint kinematics and kinetics of the lower limbs were analyzed using a 3-dimensional motion analysis system. The muscle-tendon interaction was investigated using B-mode real-time ultrasonography. As the jump intensity increased, all participants jumped with increased joint velocity and power. However, the high jumper shows less fascicle shortening velocity (-0.2 +/- 0.1 m/s) than the low jumper group (-0.3 +/- 0.1 m/s) and greater tendon velocity, which indicated the capability of elastic energy recoil. In addition, the delayed onset time of ankle extension in the high jumper implies better use of the catapult mechanism. The findings of this study showed that the muscle-tendon interaction differs depending on the jump skill level, suggesting a more efficient neuromuscular control in skilled jumpers.		[Jo, Iseul] Yonsei Univ, Grad Sch, Dept Phys Educ, Seoul, South Korea; [Lee, Hae-Dong] Yonsei Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Coll Educ Sci, Seoul, South Korea; [Jo, Iseul; Lee, Hae-Dong] Yonsei Univ, Frontier Res Inst Convergence Sports Sci, Coll Educ Sci, Seoul, South Korea; [Lee, Hae-Dong] Yonsei Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Coll Educ Sci, Seoul, South Korea								6							Sport Sciences	WOS:000971288700001	46	Article; Article		
J	Alfano, Vincenzo; Ercolano, Salvatore								Training in lockdown: The impact of stringency measures on the Tokyo 2020 Olympic Games								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	2			710	722		10.1177/17479541231163234			APR 2024	2024	Due to COVID-19, the 32nd Olympic Games were postponed temporarily for the first time, apart from those cancelled during the First and Second World Wars. Did the pandemic also affect the results? We aim to understand the impact of stringency measures on athletes' performance in the Olympics. For many athletes, the Olympics are the pinnacle of their careers, and they follow intense training schedules to arrive at the Games in peak physical condition. Stringency measures may have affected their results by making it harder for them to train effectively, to access sports infrastructure, to meet teammates, and more generally to follow an athletic lifestyle. Our quantitative analysis shows that stringency measures had an effect on the number of Olympic medals won, especially in team sports. This is consistent with the idea that stricter non-pharmaceutical interventions made it harder for teams to train together and achieve the necessary chemistry and harmony to succeed in such a competitive event. Furthermore, women were more severely penalized by higher stringency measures than men in team events.		[Alfano, Vincenzo] Univ Napoli Parthenope, DiSEGIM, Naples, Italy; [Alfano, Vincenzo] Ctr Econ Studies CES Ifo, Munich, Germany; [Ercolano, Salvatore] Univ Basilicata, Dept Math Comp Sci & Econ, Potenza, Italy; [Alfano, Vincenzo] Univ Napoli Parthenope, DiSEGIM, Naples, Italy; [Alfano, Vincenzo] Ctr Econ Studies CES Ifo, Munich, Germany								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000948674300001	45	Article; Article		
J	Magee, Christopher; Wolaver, Amy								Crowds and the Timing of Goals and Referee Decisions<SUP> 1 </SUP>								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				24	6			801	828		10.1177/15270025231160761			AUG 2023	2023	This paper investigates how crowds affect the timing of events during football matches. In theory, the presence of fans influences the urgency of the players on the field, and the magnitude of this effect grows during the match. Thus, crowds should lead to a faster increase during the match in goals scored, yellow cards, red cards, and penalty kicks. We test the hypothesis using a data set including pandemic ghost games and we find strong support for the hypothesis as it relates to goals, yellow cards, and penalty kicks but not as it relates to red cards.		[Magee, Christopher; Wolaver, Amy] Bucknell Univ, Dept Econ, Lewisburg, PA USA; [Magee, Christopher] Bucknell Univ, Dept Econ, Lewisburg, PA 17837 USA; [Magee, Christopher] Bucknell Univ, Dept Econ, Lewisburg, PA 17837 USA								4							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000945720500001	27	Article; Article		
J	Hunter, Alice Rebecca; Morgan, Kevin; Harris, Kerry; Santos, Sofia; Mouchet, Alain								Developing the use of explicitation techniques in team games as a pedagogical tool for coaching practice								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	4			1025	1035		10.1177/17479541231159384			AUG 2023	2023	Previous research has examined the use of phenomenological interviews post-performance with the aim of gaining subjective knowledge of the lived experience of players. However, to date, explicitation techniques have not been used within actual coaching sessions to enable the coach to gain greater insight into players' decision-making experiences. The aim of the study was to develop the use of explicitation techniques as a pedagogical tool within coaching sessions. As the coach, I (the first author) was one of the participants in the study. I recruited five Korfball players (M = 2, F = 3, aged between 21 and 26 years) as participants to develop my use of explicitation techniques with. The study used an Action Research (AR) approach and data collection methods included audio recordings of the explicitation techniques, fieldnotes, analytic memos and focus groups. Thematic data analysis was used to identify trends and patterns and make sense of the multiple sources of data. The findings were focused on the pedagogical strategies and adaptations used to develop the use of the explicitation techniques in coaching practice. These revealed that facilitating an evocative state through questioning requires practice and experience but is beneficial for coaching practice to understand players' lived experiences. The approach enabled me to gain greater insight into the players' reactive decision-making processes and a better understanding of what they were seeing and feeling in decision-making moments. It is anticipated that in turn, this will enable myself and other coaches to design and facilitate better coaching sessions.		[Hunter, Alice Rebecca; Morgan, Kevin; Harris, Kerry; Santos, Sofia; Mouchet, Alain] Bournemouth Univ, Dept Sport & Event Management, Poole, England; [Hunter, Alice Rebecca] Bournemouth Univ, Dept Sport & Event Management, Poole, England								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000943784000001	38	Article; Article		
J	Lopez-Belmonte, Oscar; Ruiz-Navarro, Jesus J.; Gay, Ana; Cuenca-Fernandez, Francisco; Mujika, Inigo; Arellano, Raul								Analysis of pacing and kinematics in 3000 m freestyle in elite level swimmers								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	4			921	937		10.1080/14763141.2023.2184418			APR 3 2025	2025	This study aimed to determine elite swimmers' pacing strategy in the 3000 m event and to analyse the associated performance variability and pacing factors. Forty-seven races were performed by 17 male and 13 female elite swimmers in a 25 m pool (20.7 +/- 2.9 years; 807 +/- 54 FINA points). Lap performance, clean swim velocity (CSV), water break time (WBT), water break distance (WBD), stroke rate (SR), stroke length (SL) and stroke index (SI) were analysed including and excluding the first (0-50 m) and last lap (2950-3000 m). The most common pacing strategy adopted was parabolic. Lap performance and CSV were faster in the first half of the race compared to the second half (p < 0.001). WBT, WBD, SL and SI were reduced (p < 0.05) in the second half compared to the first half of the 3000 m when including and excluding the first and last laps for both sexes. SR increased in the second half of the men's race when the first and last laps were excluded. All studied variables showed significant variation between the two halves of the 3000 m, the highest variation being obtained in WBT and WBD, suggesting that fatigue negatively affected swimming kinematics.		[Lopez-Belmonte, Oscar; Ruiz-Navarro, Jesus J.; Gay, Ana; Cuenca-Fernandez, Francisco; Arellano, Raul] Univ Granada, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sports, Aquat Lab, Granada, Spain; [Mujika, Inigo] Univ Basque Country, Fac Med & Nursing, Dept Physiol, Leioa, Spain; [Mujika, Inigo] Univ Finis Terrae, Fac Med, Sch Kinesiol, Exercise Sci Lab, Santiago, Chile; [Arellano, Raul] Univ Granada, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sports, Aquat Lab, Granada, Spain								13							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000943777300001	48	Article; Article		
J	Rittenberg, Benjamin S. P.; Barnhart, Grace E.; Neyedli, Heather F.; Young, Bradley W.; Dithurbide, Lori								Psychosocial factors predicting the usage of technology by golfers								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	5			1649	1657		10.1177/17479541221148719			OCT 2023	2023	Technology has become an important resource in sport that can help athletes improve their performance. However, the factors that predict the use of technology among athletes are unknown. In an effort to understand the current use of technology, we examined factors that impact technology use in sport. Human technology research in other domains suggests that an individual's trust in technology may be an important predictor of whether they use technology. Specific to sport, an athlete's use of a coach, self-regulated learning, skill level, playing experience, and gender may also influence their technology use. Therefore, the purpose of the present study was to determine which factors predict golfers' use of technology and, through a secondary analysis, to explore how predictive factors differed between athletes who used technology and/or a coach. A one-time survey that gathered demographic and golfing-specific (Skill Level, years of playing Experience) information, and measured technology use, coach use, trust in technology, and self-regulated learning was completed by 313 golfers. Logistic regression determined that golfers' use of a coach, trust in technology, self-regulated learning, and skill level predicted their use of technology. Further, a two-way factorial analysis of variance demonstrated that there were differences in trust in technology, self-regulated learning, and skill level between golfers who did and did not use technology. The findings of this novel study create a foundation for future research in this area and are the first step in determining how athletes can best use technology in their training and competition.		[Rittenberg, Benjamin S. P.; Barnhart, Grace E.; Neyedli, Heather F.; Dithurbide, Lori] Dalhousie Univ, Sch Hlth & Human Performance, Halifax, NS, Canada; [Young, Bradley W.] Univ Ottawa, Sch Human Kinet, Ottawa, ON, Canada; [Dithurbide, Lori] Dalhousie Univ, Sch Hlth & Human Performance, Stairs House,POB 15000,6230 South St, Halifax, NS B3H 4R2, Canada; [Dithurbide, Lori] Dalhousie Univ, Sch Hlth & Human Performance, Stairs House,POB 15000,6230 South St, Halifax, NS B3H 4R2, Canada								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000942919800001	35	Article; Article		
J	Sato, Takaaki; Fujihara, Kazuya; Yamada, Mayuko Harada; Chou, Kaori; Yaguchi, Yuta; Kitazawa, Masaru; Ishiguro, Hajime; Osawa, Taeko; Yamada, Takaho; Kodama, Satoru; Kato, Kiminori; Sone, Hirohito								Utility of a Physical Fitness Score in Screening for Chronic Diseases								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				22	1			98	110		10.52082/jssm.2023.98			MAR 2023	2023	We developed a new Physical Score (PS) consisting of compre-hensive physical fitness indicators and elucidated the association between the resultant PS and metabolic diseases, i.e., diabetes, hypertension, dyslipidemia, fatty liver, and metabolic syndrome (MetS), among Japanese. Analyzed were 49,850 persons (30,039 men) aged 30 to 69 y who underwent physical fitness tests. Prin-cipal component analysis was performed on the correlation ma-trix of the physical fitness test results (relative grip strength, sin-gle-leg balance with eyes closed, and forward bending) according to sex and age. We defined the PS as the first principal component score. A formula was developed for various age groups com-prised of men and women from 30 to 69 years of age from which the PS for each age and sex was calculated. The PS for both men and women was normally distributed with a value of 0 +/- 1.15-1.16. Multivariate logistic regression analysis showed that the risk of metabolic diseases increased approximately 1.1 -1.6 times per each 1-point reduction in the PS. The association between PS and MetS was particularly strong in that a 1-point reduction in the PS increased the risk of MetS by 1.54 times (95% confidence in-terval 1.46 to 1.62) in men and by 1.21 times (1.15 to 1.28) in women. The association between a lower PS and disease risk was stronger in younger men for fatty liver and in older men for MetS. Conversely, in women, the association between a lower PS and disease risk was stronger in older women for fatty liver and in younger women for MetS. For diabetes, hypertension, and dyslipidemia, the change in the impact of PS reductions across age groups was small. The PS is a useful and simple non-invasive tool for screening Japanese people for metabolic diseases.		[Sato, Takaaki; Fujihara, Kazuya; Yamada, Mayuko Harada; Chou, Kaori; Yaguchi, Yuta; Kitazawa, Masaru; Ishiguro, Hajime; Osawa, Taeko; Yamada, Takaho; Kodama, Satoru; Kato, Kiminori; Sone, Hirohito] Niigata Univ Fac Med, Dept Hematol Endocrinol & Metab, Niigata, Japan; [Kodama, Satoru; Kato, Kiminori] Niigata Univ Grad Sch Med & Dent Sci, Dept Prevent Noncommunicable Dis & Promot Hlth Che, Niigata, Japan; [Fujihara, Kazuya] Niigata Univ Fac Med Dept Hematol ogy, Endocrinol & Metab Niigata, Niigata 9518520, Japan; [Fujihara, Kazuya] Niigata Univ Fac Med Dept Hematol ogy, Endocrinol & Metab Niigata, Niigata 9518520, Japan								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:000939402700001	41	Article; Article		
J	Hicks, Dylan S.; Drummond, Claire; Williams, Kym J.; Tillaar, Roland van den								Force-Velocity Profiling in Club-Based Field Hockey Players: Analyzing the Relationships between Mechanical Characteristics, Sex, and Positional Demands								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				22	1			142	155		10.52082/jssm.2023.142			MAR 2023	2023	The purpose of this study was to investigate differences between sex and positional demands in club-based field hockey players by analyzing vertical force-velocity characteristics. Thirty-three club-based field hockey athletes (16 males age: 24.8 +/- 7.3yrs, body mass: 76.8 +/- 8.2kg, height: 1.79 +/- 0.05m; 17 females age: 22.3 +/- 4.2yrs, body mass: 65.2 +/- 7.6kg, height: 1.66 +/- 0.05m) were classified into two key positional groups (attacker or defender) based on dominant field position during gameplay. Force velocity (F-v) profiles were established by performing countermovement jumps (CMJ) using a three-point loading protocol ranging from body mass (i.e., zero external mass, 0%) to loads corresponding to 25% and 50% of their own body mass. Across all loads, between-trial reliability of F-v and CMJ variables was determined by intraclass correlation coefficients (ICCs) and coefficient of variation (CV) and deemed to be acceptable (ICC: 0.87 0.95, CV% 2.8 8.2). Analysis by sex identified male athletes had significantly greater differences in all F-v variables (12.81 40.58%, p < 0.001, ES = 1.10 3.19), a more enhanced F-v profile (i.e., greater theoretical maximal force, velocity, and power values), plus overall stronger correlations between relative maximal power (PMAX) and jump height (r = 0.67, p < 0.06) when compared to female athletes (-0.71< r >= 0.60, p = 0.08). Male attackers demonstrated a more 'velocity-oriented' F-v profile compared to defenders due to significant mean differences in theoretical maximal velocity (v0) (6.64%, p < 0.05, ES: 1.11), however differences in absolute and relative theoretical force (F0) (15.43%, p < 0.01, ES = 1.39) led to female attackers displaying a more 'force oriented' profile in comparison to defenders. The observed mechanical differences identify the underpinning characteristics of position specific expression of PMAX should be reflected in training programmes. Therefore, our findings suggest F-v profiling is acceptable to differentiate between sex and positional demands in club-based field hockey players. Furthermore, it is recommended field hockey players explore a range of loads and exercises across the F-v continuum through on-field and gym-based field hockey strength and conditioning practices to account for sex and positional mechanical differences.		[Hicks, Dylan S.; Drummond, Claire; Williams, Kym J.] Flinders Univ S Australia, SHAPE Res Ctr, Bedford Pk, Australia; [Tillaar, Roland van den] Nord Univ, Dept Sport Sci & Phys Educ, Oslo, Norway; [Tillaar, Roland van den] Nord Univ, Dept Sport Sci & Phys Educ, Oslo, Norway								6							Sport Sciences	WOS:000942498000001	70	Article; Article		
J	Skinner, Annie M.; Rowlands, Alex V.; Vlachopoulos, Dimitris; Barker, Alan R.; Janz, Kathleen F.; Moore, Sarah A.								The Influence of Accelerometer Epoch Length on Associations of Physical Activity Intensity and Volume with Bone Outcomes								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				22	1			117	132		10.52082/jssm.2023.117			MAR 2023	2023	Two accelerometer metrics (intensity-gradient and average -accel-eration) can be used to determine the relative contributions of physical activity (PA) volume and intensity for health, but it is unknown whether epoch length influences the associations de-tected. This is important when considering bone health, as bone is particularly responsive to high intensity PA, which may be un-derestimated by longer epochs. This study aimed to assess the as-sociations between average-acceleration, a proxy measure of PA volume, and intensity-gradient, reflective of PA intensity distri-bution, from PA data from 1-s to 60-s epochs at age 17 to 23 years with bone outcomes at age 23 years. This is a secondary analysis of 220 participants (124 females) from the Iowa Bone Develop-ment Study, a longitudinal study of bone health from childhood to early adulthood. Accelerometer-assessed PA data, captured at age 17 to 23 years, were summarised over 1-s, 5-s, 15-s, 30-s, and 60-s epochs, to generate average-acceleration and intensity -gra-dient from each epoch length, averaged across ages. Regression analysed associations between mutually adjusted average -accel-eration and intensity-gradient with dual-energy X-ray absorp-tiometry assessed total-body-less-head (TBLH) bone mineral content (BMC), spine areal bone mineral density (aBMD), hip aBMD, and femoral neck cross-sectional area and section modu-lus at age 23 years. Intensity-gradient was positively associated with TBLH BMC in females, with spine aBMD in males, and with hip aBMD and geometry in both sexes, when a 1 to 5-s epoch was used. Average-acceleration was positively associated with TBLH BMC, spine aBMD and hip aBMD in males, generally when the adjustment for intensity-gradient was from > 1-s epochs. Intensity and volume were important for bone outcomes in both sexes and males, respectively. A 1 to 5-s epoch length was most appropriate to assess the mutually adjusted associations of intensity-gradient and average-acceleration with bone outcomes in young adults.		[Skinner, Annie M.; Vlachopoulos, Dimitris; Barker, Alan R.] Univ Exeter, Childrens Hlth & Exercise Res Ctr, St Lukes Campus,Heavitree Rd, Exeter EX1 2LU, Devon, England; [Rowlands, Alex V.] Univ Leicester, Diabet Res Ctr, Assessment Movement Behav Grp AMBer, Leicester Lifestyle & Hlth Res Grp, Leicester, England; [Rowlands, Alex V.] NIHR Leicester Biomed Res Ctr, Leicester, England; [Rowlands, Alex V.] Univ South Australia, Sansom Inst Hlth Res, Div Hlth Sci, Alliance Res Exercise Nutr & Act ARENA, Adelaide, Australia; [Janz, Kathleen F.] Univ Iowa, Dept Hlth & Human Physiol, Iowa City, IA USA; [Janz, Kathleen F.] Univ Iowa, Dept Epidemiol, Iowa City, IA USA; [Moore, Sarah A.] Dalhousie Univ, Sch Hlth & Human Performance, Halifax, NS, Canada; [Skinner, Annie M.] Univ Exeter, Childrens Hlth & Exercise Res Ctr, St Lukes Campus,Heavitree Rd, Exeter EX1 2LU, Devon, England								10							Sport Sciences	WOS:000953238200013	46	Article; Article		
J	Rahimian, Pegah; Van Haaren, Jan; Toka, Laszlo								Towards maximizing expected possession outcome in soccer								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	1			230	244		10.1177/17479541231154494			FEB 2024	2024	Soccer players need to make many decisions throughout a match in order to maximize their team's chances of winning. Unfortunately, these decisions are challenging to measure and evaluate due to the low-scoring, complex, and highly dynamic nature of soccer. This article proposes an end-to-end deep reinforcement learning framework that receives raw tracking data for each situation in a game, and yields optimal ball destination location on the full surface of the pitch. Using the proposed approach, soccer players and coaches are able to analyze the actual behavior in their historical games, obtain the optimal behavior and plan for future games, and evaluate the outcome of the optimal decisions prior to deployment in a match. Concisely, the results of our optimization model propose more short passes (Tiki-Taka playing style) in all phases of a ball possession, and higher propensity of low distance shots (i.e. shots in attack phase). Such a modification will let the typical teams to increase their likelihood of possession ending in a goal by 0.025.		[Rahimian, Pegah] Budapest Univ Technol & Econ, Fac Elect Engn & Informat, Dept Telecommun & Media Informat, Budapest, Hungary; [Van Haaren, Jan] Katholieke Univ Leuven, Club Brugge, Leuven, Belgium; [Toka, Laszlo] Budapest Univ Technol & Econ, Fac Elect Engn & Informat, Dept Telecommun & Media Informat, MTA BME Informat Syst Res Grp, Budapest, Hungary; [Rahimian, Pegah] Budapest Univ Technol & Econ, Dept Telecommun & Media Informat, Magyartudosok korutja 2, H-1117 Budapest, Hungary; [Rahimian, Pegah] Budapest Univ Technol & Econ, Fac Elect Engn & Informat, Dept Telecommun & Media Informat, Budapest, Hungary; [Rahimian, Pegah] Budapest Univ Technol & Econ, Dept Telecommun & Media Informat, Magyartudosok korutja 2, H-1117 Budapest, Hungary								15							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000936262400001	24	Article; Article		
J	de Moura, Samara Silva; Dias Martins-Junior, Francisco de Assis; de Oliveira, Emerson Cruz; Coelho, Daniel Barbosa; Boari, Daniel; Lima-Silva, Adriano Eduardo; Motta-Santos, Daisy; Souza Dos Santos, Robson Augusto; Becker, Lenice Kappes								Effects of oral HPΒCD-angiotensin-(1-7) supplementation on recreational mountain bike athletes: a crossover study								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				52	1			65	76		10.1080/00913847.2023.2175587			JAN 2 2024	2024	BackgroundSupplementation with Angiotensin-(1-7) [(Ang-1-7)] has received considerable attention due to its possible ergogenic effects on physical performance. The effects of a single dose of Ang-(1-7) on the performance of mountain bike (MTB) athletes during progressive load tests performed until the onset of voluntary fatigue have previously been demonstrated. This study tested the effects of Ang-(1-7) in two different exercise protocols with different metabolic demands: aerobic (time trial) and anaerobic (repeated sprint).MethodsTwenty one male recreational athletes were given capsules containing an oral formulation of HP beta CD-Ang-(1-7) (0.8 mg) and HP beta CD-placebo (only HP beta CD) over a 7-day interval; a double-blind randomized crossover design was used. Physical performance was examined using two protocols: a 20-km cycling time trial or 4 x 30-s repeated all-out sprints on a leg cycle ergometer. Data were collected before and after physical tests to assess fatigue parameters, and included lactate levels, and muscle activation during the sprint protocol as evaluated by electromyography (EMG); cardiovascular parameters: diastolic and systolic blood pressure and heart rate; and performance parameters, time to complete (time trial), maximum power and mean power (repeated sprint).ResultsSupplementation with an oral formulation of HP beta CD-Ang-(1-7) reduced basal plasma lactate levels and promoted the maintenance of plasma glucose levels after repeated sprints. Supplementation with HP beta CD-Ang-(1-7) also increased baseline plasma nitrite levels and reduced resting diastolic blood pressure in a time trial protocol. HP beta CD-Ang-(1-7) had no effect on the time trial or repeat sprint performance, or on the EMG recordings of the vastus lateralis and vastus medialis.ConclusionsSupplementation with HP beta CD-Ang-(1-7) did not improve physical performance in time trial or in repeated sprints; however, it promoted the maintenance of plasma glucose and lactate levels after the sprint protocol and at rest, respectively. In addition, HP beta CD-Ang-(1-7) also increased resting plasma nitrite levels and reduced diastolic blood pressure in the time trial protocol.		[de Moura, Samara Silva] Univ Fed Ouro Preto, Hlth & Nutr, PPGSN, Ouro Preto, Brazil; [de Oliveira, Emerson Cruz; Coelho, Daniel Barbosa; Becker, Lenice Kappes] Univ Fed Ouro Preto, Phys Educ Sch, Ouro Preto, Brazil; [Boari, Daniel] Fed Univ ABC, Biomed Engn, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Lima-Silva, Adriano Eduardo] Univ Tecnol Fed Parana, Human Performance Res Grp, Curitiba, Brazil; [Motta-Santos, Daisy] Univ Fed Minas Gerais, Sch Phys Educ Physiotherapy & Occupat Therapy, Dept Sports, Belo Horizonte, Brazil; [Souza Dos Santos, Robson Augusto] Univ Fed Minas Gerais, Dept Physiol & Biophys, Belo Horizonte, Brazil; [Souza Dos Santos, Robson Augusto] MCT, CNPQ, NANOBIOPHAR, Natl Inst Sci & Technol, Belo Horizonte, Brazil; [Becker, Lenice Kappes] Univ Fed Ouro Preto, Phys Educ Sch, Morro Cruzeiro, BR-35400000 Ouro Preto, Brazil								4							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000934223900001	40	Article; Article		
J	Butler, David; Butler, Robert; Maxcy, Joel; Woodworth, Simon								Outcome Uncertainty and Viewer Demand for Basic Cable Boxing								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				26	2			196	213		10.1177/15270025231156052			FEB 1 2025	2025	We examine the uncertainty of outcome hypothesis and consider direct demand for professional boxing using a new dataset for basic cable broadcasts. Our analysis covers 103 broadcasts in the United States from February 2017 to February 2021 for Premier Boxing Champions (FOX) and Top Rank Boxing (ESPN). Using a generalized linear model, we estimate a demand function for basic cable broadcasts and place specific emphasis on adopting alternative measures of outcome uncertainty. We find no evidence that increasing balance between boxers increases viewership figures on basic cable broadcasts. Consistent with pay-per-view boxing viewership, our results demonstrate that bout quality impacts demand for cable broadcasts. Furthermore, we find no evidence of a declining viewership trend, a finding relevant to the industry given the general decrease in viewership trends for main events and pay-per-view broadcasts. Fans continue to demonstrate a preference for the welterweight division.		[Butler, David; Butler, Robert] Univ Coll Cork, Dept Econ, Western Rd, Cork T12 N1FK, Ireland; [Maxcy, Joel] Drexel Univ, Dept Sport Management, LeBow Coll Business, Philadelphia, PA USA; [Woodworth, Simon] Univ Coll Cork, Dept Business Informat Syst, Cork, Ireland; [Butler, Robert] Univ Coll Cork, Dept Econ, Western Rd, Cork T12 N1FK, Ireland								3							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000935334300001	46	Article; Article		
J	Magruder, Matthew L.; Caughey, Sarah; Gordon, Adam M.; Capotosto, Salvatore; Rodeo, Scott A.								Trends in utilization, demographics, and costs of platelet-rich plasma injections: a ten-year nationwide investigation								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				52	1			89	97		10.1080/00913847.2023.2178816			JAN 2 2024	2024	IntroductionPlatelet-Rich Plasma (PRP) has become one of the most popular biologic treatments in orthopedic surgery. Despite this, its utilization over the last decade has not been investigated.MethodsWe conducted a search using Current Procedural Terminology codes to identify patients who received PRP injections between 2010 and 2019 using the PearlDiver database. The purpose was to 1) determine annual trends of PRP injections of the ankle, hip, knee, shoulder, and elbow for cartilaginous, tendinous, ligamentous, meniscal/labral, and miscellaneous pathologies; 2) compare baseline demographics of patients receiving these injections; and 3) analyze costs.ResultsA total of 23,716 patients who received PRP injections were identified; 54.4% were female. The incidence of PRP injections was between 1.6 and 4.3 per 100,000 orthopedic patients. The most common anatomic locations targeted for PRP therapy was the knee (36.7%), followed by the shoulder/elbow (30.5%), then the ankle (19.6%) and hip (13.6%). Subgroup analysis revealed that most common use of PRP was for knee cartilaginous pathologies, followed by shoulder/elbow tendinous pathologies. The number of injections used in the knee significantly increased between 2010 and 2019 (p< 0.001), and trended toward significantly increasing in the shoulder/elbow (p = 0.055). Average annual costs for PRP injections ranged from $711.65 for ankles and $1,711.63 for hips; costs significantly changed for 3 of the 4 anatomic locations. By 2019, average PRP injection costs for each area clustered around $1000.ConclusionBetween 2010 and 2019, there was an increase in usage of PRP injections in the knee (cartilaginous pathologies) and the shoulder/elbow (tendinous pathologies). PRP costs demonstrated early variability but clustered around $1000 by 2019. Further studies into drivers of prices and cost-effectiveness of PRP are needed to provide clarity into the true costs to patients and healthcare providers.		[Magruder, Matthew L.; Gordon, Adam M.] Maimonides Hosp, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Brooklyn, NY 11219 USA; [Caughey, Sarah; Rodeo, Scott A.] Hosp Special Surg, Dept Regenerat Med, New York, NY USA; [Gordon, Adam M.] Boston Univ, Questrom Sch Business, Boston, MA USA; [Capotosto, Salvatore] SUNY Stony Brook, Renaissance Sch Med, Stony Brook, NY USA; [Gordon, Adam M.] Maimonides Hosp, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Brooklyn, NY 11219 USA								19							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000937967000001	42	Article; Article		
J	Watanabe, Nicholas M.; Soebbing, Brian P.; Chahardovali, Tarlan; Huang, Yinle								The Emergence of Mixed Martial-Arts and the Future of Boxing: An Analysis of Consumer Interest and Compensation								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				26	2			172	195		10.1177/15270025231156058			FEB 1 2025	2025	Despite its long-standing history as the most popular and mainstream combat sport, boxing has been confronted with increased competition from mixed martial arts (MMA) in recent decades. The dominant organization in the MMA market, the Ultimate Fighting Championship (UFC), has grown to become a multibillion dollar organization. In this article, we directly compare consumer interest and fighter compensation between boxing and the UFC to consider the economic potential for these combat sports into the future. Overall, our conclusions indicate that boxing has continued to be more lucrative as a whole, with the key factor being the presence of superstar athletes.		[Watanabe, Nicholas M.; Chahardovali, Tarlan] Univ South Carolina, Dept Sport & Entertainment Management, Coll Hospital Retail & Sport Management, Columbia, SC 29208 USA; [Soebbing, Brian P.; Huang, Yinle] Univ Alberta, Fac Kinesiol Sport & Recreat, Edmonton, AB, Canada; [Watanabe, Nicholas M.] Univ South Carolina, Dept Sport & Entertainment Management, Coll Hospital Retail & Sport Management, Columbia, SC 29208 USA								2							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000934580200001	34	Article; Article		
J	Card, Ryan K.; Harrington, Justin M.; Reyes, Nathan P.; Huish, Eric G.; Pettegrew, Jonathan								Does playing surface affect the risk of anterior cruciate ligament injuries in the National Football League? A look at the 2017-2021 NFL seasons								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				52	1			98	101		10.1080/00913847.2023.2178817			JAN 2 2024	2024	BackgroundAnterior cruciate ligament (ACL) injuries are devastating injuries for athletes. Prior studies have shown increased ACL injury rates on non-natural surfaces versus natural grass in several sports. The purpose of this study is to calculate the prevalence of ACL injuries in the NFL on natural versus non-natural surfaces to determine if there is a significant increase on non-natural surfaces.MethodsAccessing publicly available data for NFL seasons beginning with the 2017-2018 season through 2021-2022 seasons, all ACL injuries with publicly available data concerning timing and playing surface were recorded and categorized according to playing surface. Practice injuries or those without an identifiable playing surface were excluded. Incidence rates, defined as ACL ruptures per game, were calculated. ACL injuries were recorded for each playing surface, as well as the combined category of non-natural grass surface. Odds ratio was calculated to compare the risk of ACL rupture on non-natural surfaces vs natural grass.ResultsDuring the 2017-2021 NFL seasons, 173 ACL ruptures were identified with known surfaces. Injury rate for non-natural surfaces was 0.134 compared to 0.097 for grass. Injury rate ratio for non-natural vs natural grass surfaces was 1.211, a 21.1% increased risk of ACL injury in the NFL on non-natural surfaces vs natural grass. OR for non-natural surfaces 1.239 (95% CI 0.900-1.704). Based on these findings there is a trend toward increased risk of ACL injury on non natural grass surfaces, however this did not reach statistical significance.ConclusionNumerous published studies show trends toward increasing rates of ACL injuries on non-natural playing surfaces vs natural grass. Based on our findings the difference is not statistically significant, however it does trend toward increased risk of ACL injury with non-natural surfaces. Further studies should be performed with larger sample sizes in order to further determine the risk of non-natural surfaces.		[Card, Ryan K.; Harrington, Justin M.; Reyes, Nathan P.; Huish, Eric G.; Pettegrew, Jonathan] Valley Consortium Med Educ Orthoped Surg Residency, Modesto, CA 95351 USA; [Card, Ryan K.; Harrington, Justin M.; Reyes, Nathan P.; Huish, Eric G.] San Joaquin Gen Hosp, Dept Orthoped Surg, French Camp, CA USA; [Card, Ryan K.] Valley Consortium Med Educ Orthoped Surg Residency, Modesto, CA 95351 USA								2							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000937966600001	19	Article; Article		
J	Merza, Eman Y.; Pearson, Stephen J.; Mallows, Adrian J.; Malliaras, Peter								The relationship between psychological, cognitive, and contextual factors and rehabilitation outcomes in Achilles tendinopathy: A prospective feasibility cohort study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				60				132	140		10.1016/j.ptsp.2023.02.002			MAR 2023	2023	Objectives: This study aimed to investigate the feasibility of conducting a full-scale study investigating the influence of patient-related factors on rehabilitation outcomes in Achilles tendinopathy (AT). A secondary aim was to investigate preliminary relationships between patient-related factors and clinical outcomes at 12- and 26- weeks.Design: feasibility cohort.Setting: Australian healthcare settings.Methods: Participants with AT receiving physiotherapy in Australia were recruited via treating physiotherapists and online. Data were collected online at baseline, 12- and 26-weeks. Progression criteria for a full-scale study were recruitment rate of >= 10 per month, conversion rate >= 20%, and response rate to questionnaires >= 80%. The relationship between patient-related factors and clinical outcomes was investigated using Spearman's rho correlation coefficient. Results: The average recruitment rate was 5/month, conversion rate was 97%, and response rate to questionnaires was >= 97% at all timepoints. There was a fair to moderate correlation (rho = 0.225 to 0.683) between patient-related factors and clinical outcomes at the 12-week, but no to weak correlation at the 26-week (rho = 0.002 to 0.284).Conclusions: Feasibility outcomes suggest a future full-scale cohort study is feasible with the caveat of utilizing strategies to improve recruitment rate. Preliminary bivariate correlations at 12-weeks warrant further investigations in larger studies.		[Merza, Eman Y.; Malliaras, Peter] Monash Univ, Fac Med Nursing & Hlth Sci, Dept Physiotherapy, Melbourne, Vic 3199, Australia; [Mallows, Adrian J.] Univ Salford, Ctr Hlth Sport & Rehabil Sci Res, Manchester CO4 3SQ, England; [Merza, Eman Y.] Monash Univ, Fac Med Nursing & Hlth Sci, Dept Physiotherapy, Melbourne, Vic 3199, Australia								4							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000989858600001	50	Article; Article		
J	Kosa, Lili; Kormendi, Janos; Ihasz, Ferenc; Koteles, Ferenc								Dissociations between coaches' fatigue rating, athletes' perceived fatigue, and objective training load								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	4			1003	1009		10.1177/17479541231156082			AUG 2023	2023	Players' fatigue after practice is an important indicator of the actual training status for the coach. However, fatigue is not a unitary construct; it has objective (physiological) and perceived (experiential) aspects, which are not necessarily strongly related. The present study aimed to assess the association between coaches' and athletes' perception of fatigue and objectively assessed training load (TL). Participants were 61 elite players of five sport teams of two sports (basketball and football) and their coaches. Players' and coaches' perception of fatigue and objective data on TL provided by the Polar Team Pro system was obtained for 276 practice sessions overall. The association between coaches' and athletes' fatigue rating was .43 (p < .001), between coaches' fatigue rating and TL was .5 (p < .001), and between athletes' fatigue rating and TL was .45 (p < .001). Linear regression with TL as the criterion variable and coaches' and athletes' fatigue rating as predictor variables explained 32.8% of the total variance. As the discordance between coaches' estimation of fatigue, athletes' perceived fatigue, and objective TL appears substantial, coaches should always take into consideration the latter two indicators. Future research with a translational focus is needed to help coaches to find an optimal balance among various indicators of fatigue in the determination of the load for the subsequent training sessions.		[Kosa, Lili; Kormendi, Janos] Eotvos Lorand Univ, Doctoral Sch Psychol, Budapest, Hungary; [Kosa, Lili; Kormendi, Janos; Koteles, Ferenc] Eotvos Lorand Univ, Inst Hlth Promot & Sport Sci, Budapest, Hungary; [Ihasz, Ferenc] Eotvos Lorand Univ, Inst Sport Sci, Budapest, Hungary; [Koteles, Ferenc] Karoli Gaspar Univ Reformed Church Hungary, Budapest, Hungary; [Koteles, Ferenc] Karoli Gaspar Univ Reformed Church, Inst Psychol, Becs Ut 324, H-1037 Budapest, Hungary								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000932163800001	61	Article; Article		
J	Hahm, Jeongbeom; Choi, Heedong; Matsuoka, Hirotaka; Kim, Jiyoung; Byon, Kevin K. K.								Understanding the relationship between acceptance of multifunctional health and fitness features of wrist-worn wearables and actual usage								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				24	2			333	358		10.1108/IJSMS-08-2022-0163			APR 3 2023	2023	PurposeThe purpose of this study was to identify existing users' acceptance of the multidimensional health and fitness features of wrist-worn wearable devices (WWDs) required for each stage of physical activity (i.e. before, during and after) and examine the relationship between its acceptance (i.e. knowledge acquisition, perceived usefulness and perceived ease of use) and the actual use of its health and fitness attributes.Design/methodology/approachBoth qualitative and quantitative approaches were taken to analyze the relationships. A focus group interview was conducted (N = 9) to design the research model, including the operationalized definition of the study constructs. A questionnaire survey was conducted with respondents in South Korea (N = 480). Partial least squares structural equation modeling via Smart PLS 3.0 was employed to test the hypotheses.FindingsWhen users learned to use fitness functions and perceived them as useful for physical activity without causing any difficulty, they tended to use those functions more, which provided enhanced health benefits in the digitalized interactive environment of WWDs.Originality/valueThis research is one of the first to examine the relationship between the perceived user value of WWDs and their actual usage within a digitalized and interactive environment. The results are expected to offer theoretical insights into how well users accept the health and fitness components of WWDs. Practically, it will build awareness of what makes users adopt and use WWDs, helping practitioners design better health promotions and campaigns associated with WWDs.		[Hahm, Jeongbeom] Univ Malaya, Fac Sport & Exercise Sci, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia; [Choi, Heedong] Korea Univ, Seoul, South Korea; [Matsuoka, Hirotaka] Waseda Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Tokyo, Japan; [Kim, Jiyoung] Korea Nazarene Univ, Cheonan, South Korea; [Byon, Kevin K. K.] Indiana Univ Bloomington, Dept Kinesiol, Bloomington, IN 47405 USA; [Byon, Kevin K. K.] Indiana Univ Bloomington, Dept Kinesiol, Bloomington, IN 47405 USA								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000929510500001	58	Article; Article		
J	Groves, Jevon; Clements, Dan								Exploring the perceptions of leadership in Hong Kong rugby								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	1			283	293		10.1177/17479541231154074			FEB 2024	2024	The concept of leadership within sports coaching continues to fascinate and intrigue a multitude of stakeholders. There is still a need for a greater understanding of its role within a complex, dynamic field of inquiry that seemingly relies heavily on the 'coach as leader' for a multitude of outcomes (e.g. performance success, athlete development, social outcomes). Given the call for more contextually specific and action orientated research, the aim of this study was to explore the perceptions of coach leadership within the Hong Kong rugby union environment. The study adopted an interpretive paradigm to gain deep insight into coaches' and players perceptions of leadership in rugby. Data was collected from 16 participants via three separate online focus groups. Qualitative thematic analysis was used to analyse and interpret the data. The findings suggest that for leadership to be effective, coaches must possess a socio-cultural understanding of their context, have a clear vision for their team and have a principle of transformational and value-based leadership to assist with decision making. Additionally, coaches must become role models and demonstrate authentic leadership characteristics to be able to build and maintain relationships with the people in their organisation through effective communication. Sharing leadership appeared to be an effective method adopted by coaches to enhance leadership throughout a rugby organisation. We suggest that the results provide a grounding for coach learning within a unique coaching context.		[Groves, Jevon] Hong Kong Sports Inst, Shatin, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [Clements, Dan] Welsh Rugby Union, Cardiff, Wales; [Groves, Jevon] Hong Kong Sports Inst, Shatin, 25 Yuen Wo Rd, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [Groves, Jevon] Hong Kong Sports Inst, Shatin, 25 Yuen Wo Rd, Hong Kong, Peoples R China								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000933870500001	65	Article; Article		
J	Gottlieb, Uri; Hoffman, Jay R.; Springer, Shmuel								Dynamic postural control in individuals with and without chronic ankle instability-do the modified star-excursion balance test and jump-landing stabilization have the same control mechanism?								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				60				104	111		10.1016/j.ptsp.2023.01.011			MAR 2023	2023	Objective: To examine the relationship between two dynamic postural tasks in subjects with and without chronic ankle instability (CAI).Design: Cross-sectional study.Setting: Biomechanics lab.Participants: Thirty subjects with CAI and 30 healthy controls.Main outcome measure: Performance of two dynamic postural control tests: the modified Star-Excursion Balance Test (mSEBT) and an assessment of a single limb jump-landing on a force plate that yielded two outcomes: time to stabilization (TTS) and the absolute average force in the mediolateral plane during the first 0.4 s after landing (AAFML).Results: In the CAI group, a significant correlation was found between the mSEBT score and the AAFML (r = -0.54, p < 0.01), but not between the mSEBT or TTS or between the AAFML and the TTS. However, in the control group, a significant correlation was found between AAFML and the TTS (r = 0.43, p < 0.05), but not between the mSEBT and TTS or between the mSEBT and AAFML.Conclusion: These results suggest that there is no association between the different dynamic balance tasks. The different pattern of association in individuals with CAI may indicate altered central neural control. Clinicians and researchers should therefore not use a single task to assess dynamic postural control. (c) 2023 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Gottlieb, Uri; Hoffman, Jay R.; Springer, Shmuel] Ariel Univ, Dept Physiotherapy, Neuromuscular & Human Performance Lab, Ariel, Israel; [Springer, Shmuel] Ariel Univ, 65 Ramat HaGolan St, IL-40700 Ariel, Israel; [Springer, Shmuel] Ariel Univ, 65 Ramat HaGolan St, IL-40700 Ariel, Israel								17							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000992971900001	43	Article; Article		
J	Trunt, Aaron; MacFadden, Lisa N.								The influence of modeling parameters for computing joint kinetics in adolescent and adult pitchers								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	4			874	888		10.1080/14763141.2023.2170825			APR 3 2025	2025	Baseball pitching is a well-studied area of sports biomechanics partially due to high upper extremity (UE) injury rates. Joint kinetics have not been linked directly to UE injury in pitchers but are often used in lieu of injury data as a proxy for injury risk. Pitchers exhibit adaptations in the throwing arm that may affect body segment inertial parameters (BSIPs); however, these are unaccounted for in traditional modelling methods and may contribute to the lack of evidence linking joint kinetics to injury. Therefore, this study aimed to describe the BSIPs of the throwing arm in adolescent and adult pitchers and compare joint kinetics computed from traditional modelling methods to those using individualised BSIPs. Forty-five pitchers underwent dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA) scans and motion capture sessions in a biomechanics laboratory. Individual BSIPs from the DXA scans were used to estimate UE joint kinetics via inverse dynamics and compared to joint kinetics computed from scaled BSIPs. Throwing arm BSIPs in pitchers were significantly different from studies of the general population. Variable levels of agreement and significant differences in joint kinetics existed between methods, indicating that using joint kinetics computed via scaled models to identify pitchers at risk of injury may be inappropriate.		[Trunt, Aaron] Sanford Hlth, Sanford Sports Sci Inst, Sioux Falls, SD 57117 USA; [Trunt, Aaron; MacFadden, Lisa N.] Univ South Dakota, Dept Biomed Engn, Sioux Falls, SD 57069 USA; [Trunt, Aaron] Sanford Hlth, Sanford Sports Sci Inst, Sioux Falls, SD 57117 USA; [Trunt, Aaron] Univ South Dakota, Dept Biomed Engn, Sioux Falls, SD 57069 USA								4							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000921970800001	33	Article; Article		
J	Talukdar, Kaushik; McGuigan, Mike; Harrison, Craig								Practical Strategies in Developing Strength and Plyometric Training to Improve Sprinting Speed in Female Student Athletes Within a School Curriculum								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				45	1			122	130		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000713			FEB 2023	2023	Sprinting speed plays a crucial role in many sports, and it is considered a fundamental motor skill. Various training methods can be used to improve sprinting speed. Researchers have shown strength and plyometric training (PT) to be effective in improving sprinting speed. However, most studies have reviewed the effects of strength and PT on sprinting performance in adults and young males. There is a paucity of research that has reviewed the effects of strength and PT on sprinting performance in young females across maturation (pre-peak height, mid-peak height, and post-peak height velocity: peak height velocity student athletes, age 10-16 years). Moreover, no previous review has provided practical strength and PT strategies for young female student-athletes that acknowledge important factors such as growth, forces, and enjoyment. Therefore, this review highlights the importance of progressive strength and PT on sprinting performance in young females and provides practical training programs that can be implemented within a school curriculum. More specifically, this review provides exercise progressions in strength and power training for an eight-week training block that can be easily implemented by strength and conditioning coaches within a school term.		[Talukdar, Kaushik] St Cuthberts Coll, Auckland, New Zealand; [Talukdar, Kaushik; McGuigan, Mike; Harrison, Craig] Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand, Auckland, New Zealand; [Talukdar, Kaushik] Auckland Univ Technol, Fac Hlth & Environm Sci, Auckland, New Zealand; [Talukdar, Kaushik] Athlete Inst, Auckland, New Zealand; [Harrison, Craig] Edith Cowan Univ, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, Joondalup, WA, Australia; [Talukdar, Kaushik] St Cuthberts Coll, Auckland, New Zealand; [Talukdar, Kaushik] Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand, Auckland, New Zealand; [Talukdar, Kaushik] Auckland Univ Technol, Fac Hlth & Environm Sci, Auckland, New Zealand; [Talukdar, Kaushik] Athlete Inst, Auckland, New Zealand								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:000925825500011	42	Article; Article		
J	Ryan, Chloe; Uthoff, Aaron; McKenzie, Chloe; Cronin, John								New Perspectives of the Traditional and Modified 5-0-5 Change of Direction Test								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				45	1			83	92		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000723			FEB 2023	2023	Change of direction (COD) ability is considered essential for successful participation in many field and court sports. Several COD models that currently exist identify technique, leg strength qualities, and straight sprint speed as the key determinants of COD performance. This narrative review discusses the original COD model, focusing on specific leg strength qualities (concentric, eccentric, isometric, and reactive strength) and their relationship with 5-0-5 COD performance. It is clear from the existing literature that each of these leg strength qualities contributes to the performance of the 5-0-5 COD test; however, it is unclear which are most at play during the phases of performing a COD. This review introduces a new COD model and a way to split the modified 5-0-5 COD test into 4 distinct phases (acceleration, deceleration, 180(O) turn, and reacceleration). This new perspective and proposed method of testing provides greater diagnostic value to the modified 5-0-5 COD test and allows coaches and practitioners to be more targeted with feedback and programming to improve COD and sporting performance.		[Ryan, Chloe; Uthoff, Aaron; McKenzie, Chloe; Cronin, John] Univ Technol, Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand, Strength & Conditioning, Auckland, New Zealand; [Ryan, Chloe] Univ Technol, Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand, Strength & Conditioning, Auckland, New Zealand								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:000925825500008	45	Article; Article		
J	Lord, Rhiannon; Kavaliauskas, Mykolas								Sociological Tools for Improving Women's Representation and Experiences in Strength and Conditioning Coaching								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				45	1			40	48		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000726			FEB 2023	2023	Women are underrepresented in strength and conditioning (S&C) coaching, arguably more so than women in sport coaching. They account for approximately 6-16% of strength and conditioning coaches at all levels, thus negatively affecting the gendered experiences of women working in S&C. Based on evidence from coaching research, this is likely because of longstanding patterns of structural bias and discrimination, which is inherent in sport, but it is important for future strength and conditioning coaches (SCCs), both men and women, that more equitable practices and opportunities are implemented. In this article, we present 3 sociological perspectives as tools for those working in S&C, including individual coaches, educators, governing bodies, and organizations, to critically examine their gendered practices and environments. We hope that by doing sociology within their day-to-day practice, those working in S&C can develop a better awareness of structural bias and forms of discrimination that affect women SCCs' experiences and then, where possible, make positive changes for women working in the field.		[Lord, Rhiannon] Abertay Univ, Div Sport & Exercise Sci, Dundee, Angus, Scotland; [Kavaliauskas, Mykolas] Edinburgh Napier Univ, Sch Appl Sci, Edinburgh, Scotland; [Lord, Rhiannon] Abertay Univ, Div Sport & Exercise Sci, Dundee, Angus, Scotland								7							Sport Sciences	WOS:000925825500004	57	Article; Article		
J	Till, Kevin; Collins, Neil; McCormack, Sam; Owen, Cameron; Weaving, Dan; Jones, Ben								Challenges and Solutions for Physical Testing in Sport: The Profiling Physical Qualities Tool								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				45	1			29	39		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000710			FEB 2023	2023	The measurement, analysis, and reporting of physical qualities within sport is vital for practitioners to support athlete development. However, several challenges exist to support this process (e.g., establishing comparative data, managing large data sets) within sport. This article presents 7 challenges associated with physical testing in sport and offers solutions to overcome them. These solutions are supported by a description of the Profiling Physical Qualities (ProPQ) tool. The ProPQ tool uses advanced data analysis, visualization, and interactive elements, to enhance stakeholders' use of data to optimize player development and coaching practices. The ProPQ is currently used across rugby league in England.		[Till, Kevin; Collins, Neil; McCormack, Sam; Owen, Cameron; Weaving, Dan; Jones, Ben] Leeds Beckett Univ, Carnegie Sch Sport, Leeds, England; [Till, Kevin; Jones, Ben] Leeds Rhinos Rugby League Club, Leeds, England; [Collins, Neil; McCormack, Sam; Owen, Cameron; Jones, Ben] Rugby Football League, England Performance Unit, Leeds, England; [Jones, Ben] Univ New England, Sch Sci & Technol, Armidale, NSW, Australia; [Jones, Ben] Univ Cape Town, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Human Biol, Divison Exercise Sci & Sports Med, Cape Town, South Africa; [Jones, Ben] Sport Sci Inst South Africa, Cape Town, South Africa; [Till, Kevin] Leeds Beckett Univ, Carnegie Sch Sport, Leeds, England; [Till, Kevin] Leeds Rhinos Rugby League Club, Leeds, England								9							Sport Sciences	WOS:000925825500003	68	Article; Article		
J	Harris, Dale M.; Oranchuk, Dustin J.; Latella, Christopher								Neuromuscular adaptations to different set configurations during a periodized power training block in elite junior Judokas								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	1			323	331		10.1177/17479541221151195			FEB 2024	2024	Although the impacts of traditional sets (TS) versus cluster (CL) sets resistance training have been broadly explored among recreationally trained populations, no studies have previously compared these set configurations among elite Judokas. Twenty-two elite male and female Judokas (age = 17.5 +/- 1.2 years) performed identical periodized 4-week hypertrophy and strength blocks (8 weeks in total). Following this, for the final 4-week power training block, the cohort was separated into either TS (n = 11) or CL (n = 11) set structures. CL were prescribed by including 45-second intra-set rest every two repetitions. One-repetition maximum (1RM) and peak barbell velocities of the back squat and bench press, and countermovement (CMJ) jump height were assessed before and following each 4-week mesocycle. Significant strength and power improvements were observed after the 4-week hypertrophy training block (1RM bench press = Delta 3.82 kg, ES [95% CI] = 1.34 [0.76, 1.93], p < 0.001; 1RM squat = Delta 4.71 kg, ES = 0.52 [0.07, 0.96], p = 0.024; CMJ height = Delta 0.54 cm, ES = 0.62 [0.16, 1.07], p = 0.008) and after the 4-week maximal strength training block (1RM bench press = Delta 1.5 kg, ES = 0.68 [0.21, 1.41], p = 0.004; 1RM squat = Delta 5.47 kg, ES = 0.61 [0.15, 1.06], p = 0.010; CMJ height = Delta 0.45 cm, ES = 0.71 [0.23, 1.17], p = 0.003). However, no time x group differences were observed between the TS and CL groups following the 4-week power training block. Though traditional periodized resistance training improved neuromuscular qualities of elite junior Judokas, no between-group neuromuscular differences using either TS or CL suggests that both methods may be used as part of periodized training programs.		[Harris, Dale M.] Victoria Univ, Year Coll 1, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Harris, Dale M.] Victoria Univ, Inst Hlth & Sport IHeS, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Oranchuk, Dustin J.] Auckland Univ Technol, Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand, Auckland, New Zealand; [Oranchuk, Dustin J.] Acumen Hlth, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Latella, Christopher] Edith Cowan Univ, Ctr Human Performance, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, Joondalup, WA, Australia; [Latella, Christopher] Edith Cowan Univ, Neurophysiol Res Lab, Joondalup, WA, Australia; [Harris, Dale M.] Victoria Univ, Year Coll 1, Footscray Pk Campus, Melbourne, Vic 3011, Australia; [Harris, Dale M.] Victoria Univ, Year Coll 1, Footscray Pk Campus, Melbourne, Vic 3011, Australia								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000919964100001	42	Article; Article		
J	Lu, Huei-Fu								Can sports-based corporate social responsibility performance reflect firms' market values and risks? Intertemporal evidence from Taiwan iSports corporate award-winning firms								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				24	4			585	605		10.1108/IJSMS-10-2022-0191			OCT 11 2023	2023	PurposeWith the growing popularity of sports in Taiwan, the Sports Administration under the Ministry of Education introduced the Taiwan iSports Corporate Award campaign. This emphasised sports for employees and assisted in developing and supporting corporate social responsibility (CSR) activities in the sports industry through collaboration with firms, thereby enhancing their corporate image, facilitating the recruitment of high-quality employees and highlighting healthy human resources and brand value. Can sports-based CSR performance reflect firms' market values and reduce their market risks? This study regards Taiwan iSports Corporate Award announcements as important sports-based CSR disclosures and incorporates financial econometrics to examine the relationship between the announcement of sports-based CSR performance and firms' market values and risks.Design/methodology/approachAn event study is conducted to clarify the reactions of the Taiwan iSports Corporate Award announcement event on the abnormal returns of award-winning firms during the 2016-2021 period, and a regression discontinuity design (RDD) model is employed to verify the robustness of the empirical results using the event study method.FindingsTaiwan iSports Corporate Award announcements are not significantly reflected in the positive abnormal returns of award-winning firms. No causal relationship is found between the two. However, there are signs of relatively less systematic risks when investing in award-winning firms than in the market.Originality/valueThis study provides empirical evidence and managerial implications for Taiwan iSports Corporate Award-winning firms. It effectively enables business operators, sponsors or investors to understand the reactions of announcing sports-based CSR performance on the financial market and provides references for corporate organizations' CSR and sustainable development.		[Lu, Huei-Fu] Aletheia Univ, Dept Sport Management, New Taipei City, Taiwan; [Lu, Huei-Fu] Aletheia Univ, Dept Sport Management, New Taipei City, Taiwan								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000918352600001	73	Article; Article		
J	Mullally, Elaine M.; Atack, Alexandra C.; Glaister, Mark; Clark, Nicholas C.; Brown, Nicola								A cross-sectional retrospective survey of injury situation and prevalence in female recreational netball players with a focus on knee injuries								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				60				70	74		10.1016/j.ptsp.2023.01.003			MAR 2023	2023	Objectives: To examine situations of injury and injury prevalence in female adult recreational netball players with a focus on knee injuries.Design: Cross sectional retrospective online survey.Participants: 193 female adult recreational netball players.Main outcome measures: Any injury sustained in the previous 12 months, situation of injury, any knee injuries sustained in the previous five years, the length of time unable to play netball, and knee injury management.Results: In the previous 12 months, 61% of respondents sustained injury to the lower limb, and 27% to the upper limb. Lower limb injury situations were mostly landings (46%). Upper limb injury situations were mostly collisions with an opponent (27%). 46% reported sustaining a knee injury in the previous five years. Following knee injury, players were unable to play netball for 6.8 +/- 7.0 months (training); and 8.2 +/- 7.4 months (matches) respectively.Conclusions: Lower limb injury is more common than upper limb injury in recreational adult female adult netball players. Landing was the most common situation of injury for the lower limb including knee injuries. In the previous five years, nearly half of the players had sustained a knee injury resulting in more than six months out of the game.(c) 2023 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).		[Mullally, Elaine M.; Atack, Alexandra C.; Glaister, Mark; Brown, Nicola] St Marys Univ, Fac Sport Hlth & Appl Sci, Waldegrave Rd, Twickenham TW1 4SX, England; [Clark, Nicholas C.] Univ Essex, Sch Sport Rehabil & Exercise Sci, Wivenhoe Pk, Colchester CO4 3SQ, Essex, England; [Mullally, Elaine M.] St Marys Univ, Fac Sport Hlth & Appl Sci, Waldegrave Rd, Twickenham TW1 4SX, England								5							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000924996400001	30	Article; Article		
J	Hawkins, Rebecca M. M.; Swann, Christian; Jackman, Patricia C. C.								Exploring How Active and Insufficiently Active Individuals Respond to Specific and Non-Specific Physical Activity Goals								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				95	1			60	68		10.1080/02701367.2022.2147894			JAN 2 2024	2024	Purpose: This study aimed to extend understanding of goal setting in physical activity (PA) by exploring qualitatively active and insufficiently active individuals' experiences of pursuing specific and non-specific goals. Methods: Twelve active (M-age = 25.00 years) and nine insufficiently active (M-age = 24.33 years) adults were interviewed after participating in three 6-minute walking tests, during which they pursued specific and non-specific (open and DYB) goals and completed a no-goal control condition. Content analysis was used to examine each subgroup independently, before a between-group comparison to explore similarities and differences in experiences was undertaken. Results: Several strategies were employed to enhance trustworthiness. Our analysis was organised into seven categories: (1) perception of challenge; (2) perceived control; (3) performance satisfaction; (4) motivational intensity; (5) enjoyment; (6) self-efficacy; and (7) strategies for pursuing goals. Our findings suggest that active participants responded more positively to specific goals, with differences in the cognitions experienced before, during, and after the goal conditions. Conversely, insufficiently active participants responded more positively to non-specific goals, with differences in the cognitions experienced before, during, and after the goal conditions and more negatively to specific goals. Conclusion: Findings extend understanding of specific and non-specific goals in PA and underline the need to consider goal specificity in the prescription of PA for certain population groups most in need of intervention.		[Hawkins, Rebecca M. M.; Jackman, Patricia C. C.] Univ Lincoln, Lincoln, England; [Swann, Christian] Southern Cross Univ, Lismore, Australia; [Hawkins, Rebecca M. M.] Univ Lincoln, Sch Sport & Exercise Sci, Lincoln LN6 7TS, England; [Hawkins, Rebecca M. M.] Univ Lincoln, Sch Sport & Exercise Sci, Lincoln LN6 7TS, England								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000917804300001	45	Article; Article		
J	Koutlas, Aggelos; Smilios, Ilias; Kokkinou, Eleni Maria; Myrkos, Aristides; Kounoupis, Anastasios; Dipla, Konstantina; Zafeiridis, Andreas								NIRS-Derived Muscle-Deoxygenation and Microvascular Reactivity During Occlusion-Reperfusion at Rest Are Associated With Whole-Body Aerobic Fitness								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				95	1			127	139		10.1080/02701367.2022.2159309			JAN 2 2024	2024	Purpose: Near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) indices during arterial occlusion-reperfusion maneuver have been used to examine the muscle's oxidative metabolism and microvascular function-important determinants of whole-body aerobic-fitness. The association of NIRS-derived parameters with whole-body VO(2)max was previously examined using a method requiring exercise (or electrical stimulation) followed by multiple arterial occlusions. We examined whether NIRS-derived indices of muscle deoxygenation and microvascular reactivity assessed during a single occlusion-reperfusion at rest are (a) associated with maximal/submaximal indices of whole-body aerobic-fitness and (b) could discriminate individuals with different VO(2)max. We, also, investigated which NIRS-parameter during occlusion-reperfusion correlates best with whole-body aerobic-fitness. Methods: Twenty-five young individuals performed an arterial occlusion-reperfusion at rest. Changes in oxygenated- and deoxygenated-hemoglobin (O(2)Hb and HHb, respectively) in vastus-lateralis were monitored; adipose tissue thickness (ATT) at NIRS-application was assessed. Participants also underwent a maximal incremental exercise test for VO(2)max, maximal aerobic velocity (MAV), and ventilatory-thresholds (VTs) assessments. Results: The HHbslope and HHbmagnitude of increase (occlusion-phase) and O(2)Hbmagnitude of increase (reperfusion-phase) were strongly correlated with VO(2)max (r = .695-.763, p < .001) and moderately with MAV (r = .468-.530; p < .05). O(2)Hbmagnitude was moderately correlated with VTs (r = .399-.414; p < .05). After controlling for ATT, the correlations remained significant for VO(2)max (r = .672-.704; p < .001) and MAV (r = .407; p < .05). Individuals in the high percentiles after median and tritile splits for HHbslope and O(2)Hbmagnitude had significantly greater VO(2)max vs. those in low percentiles (p < .01-.05). The HHbslope during occlusion was the best predictor of VO(2)max. Conclusion: NIRS-derived muscle deoxygenation/reoxygenation indices during a single arterial occlusion-reperfusion maneuver are strongly associated with whole-body maximal indices of aerobic-fitness (VO(2)max, MAV) and may discriminate individuals with different VO(2)max.		[Koutlas, Aggelos; Kounoupis, Anastasios; Dipla, Konstantina; Zafeiridis, Andreas] Aristotle Univ Thessaloniki, Thessaloniki, Greece; [Smilios, Ilias; Kokkinou, Eleni Maria; Myrkos, Aristides] Democritus Univ Thrace, Komotini, Greece; [Zafeiridis, Andreas] Aristotle Univ Thessaloniki, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci Serres, Ag Ioannis 62110, Serres, Greece; [Zafeiridis, Andreas] Aristotle Univ Thessaloniki, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci Serres, Ag Ioannis 62110, Serres, Greece								15							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000917575600001	91	Article; Article		
J	Leyhr, Daniel; Murr, Dennis; Romann, Michael; Eichler, Katrin; Basten, Lajos; Hauser, Thomas; Luedin, Dennis; Hoener, Oliver								Assessing biological maturity timing by MRI and coaches' eye in elite youth soccer players: A comparison between objective and subjective diagnostics utilizing correlation and single case analyses								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	4			994	1002		10.1177/17479541231152820			AUG 2023	2023	The importance of considering information related to athletes' biological maturation within talent identification and development processes is frequently emphasized by both sport scientists and practitioners. Although there is evidence for the use of objective diagnostics for assessing biological maturation, little is known about its subjective determinations by coaches. Such approaches are particularly relevant when scientific support is limited. Therefore, the current study aimed to compare a practical subjective approach (coaches' eye) to assess biological maturity timing (BMT) with objective reference diagnostics (MRI). For this purpose, data were collected from 63 male elite soccer players of the U12 and U14 age group who were part of the German talent promotion program. Players' BMT (i.e., skeletal - chronological age) was assessed by MRI and a subjective rating of two coaches. Data analyses revealed high-rank correlations (r(s) = .55; p < .001) for the total sample as well as for U14 players (r(s) = .65; p < .001) and moderate rank correlations for U12 players (r(s) = .42; p < .05). Single case analyses showed substantial agreements between the diagnostics. However, particularly for U12 players, judgements did not always correspond with the MRI rankings. Although coaches seem to have the ability for recognizing the earliest and latest maturing players in the sample, inconsistencies exist in single cases, especially for players that were identified on-time by objective MRI diagnostics. Although utilizing subjective coach assessments as an alone-standing tool to assess a player's BMT is not recommended in applied practice, its use can be beneficial when applied in addition to common objective diagnostics or in circumstances where objective data are not available.		[Leyhr, Daniel; Murr, Dennis; Hoener, Oliver] Eberhard Karls Univ Tubingen, Inst Sports Sci, Wilhelmstr 124, D-72074 Tubingen, Germany; [Leyhr, Daniel] Eberhard Karls Univ Tubingen, Methods Ctr, Tubingen, Germany; [Romann, Michael; Luedin, Dennis] Swiss Fed Inst Sport Magglingen SFISM, Dept Elite Sport, Magglingen, Switzerland; [Eichler, Katrin; Basten, Lajos] Goethe Univ Hosp, Dept Diagnost & Intervent Radiol, Frankfurt, Germany; [Basten, Lajos] Univ Hosp Cologne, Dept Diagnost & Intervent Radiol, Cologne, Germany; [Hauser, Thomas] DFB Acad, Med Ctr, Frankfurt, Germany; [Leyhr, Daniel] Eberhard Karls Univ Tubingen, Inst Sports Sci, Wilhelmstr 124, D-72074 Tubingen, Germany								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000922413500001	48	Article; Article		
J	Fuchs, Philip X.; Chou, Yi-Cheng; Chen, Wei-Han; Fiolo, Nicholas J.; Shiang, Tzyy-Yuang								Accuracy of a local positioning system for time-series speed and acceleration and performance indicators in game sports								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	2			291	305		10.1080/14763141.2022.2110513			FEB 1 2025	2025	The objective was to determine the reliability and validity of a local positioning system (LPS) promising high accuracy at reduced pro-duct costs. Fifty-five random static positions in a gym (54.8 x 26.0 m) were obtained 10 times via LPS (50 Hz) and measuring tape. An athlete's LPS-derived peak and time-series speed and acceleration during dynamic movements (n = 80) were compared with Vicon (100 Hz). Reliability and validity were assessed via Intraclass and Concordance Correlation Coefficients (ICC/CCC), root mean square errors, Bland-Altman plots, and analysis of variance. ICC3,1 (>= 0.999) and CCC (0.387-0.999) were calculated for static positions (errors < 0.22 m). CCC for time-series speed and acceleration, and peak speed, acceleration, and deceleration were 0.884-0.902, 0.777- 0.854, 0.923, 0.486, and 0.731, respectively. Errors were larger in time-series acceleration (14.37 +/- 3.77%) than in speed (11.99 +/- 5.78%) (eta(2)(p) = 0.472, p < 0.001) and in peak acceleration (28.04 +/- 14.34%) and deceleration (25.07 +/- 14.90%) than in speed (7.34 +/- 6.07%) (eta(2)(p) = 0.091, p < 0.01). LPS achieved excellent reliability and moderate-to-excellent validity of time-series speed and accelera-tion. The system accurately measured peak speed but not peak acceleration and deceleration. The system is suitable for analyses based on instantaneous speed and acceleration in game sports (e.g., energy estimations).		[Fuchs, Philip X.; Chou, Yi-Cheng; Chen, Wei-Han; Fiolo, Nicholas J.; Shiang, Tzyy-Yuang] Natl Taiwan Normal Univ, Dept Athlet Performance, Taipei, Taiwan; [Fuchs, Philip X.] Univ Salzburg, Dept Sports & Exercise Sci, Salzburg, Austria; [Shiang, Tzyy-Yuang] Natl Taiwan Normal Univ, Dept Athlet Performance, Taipei, Taiwan								4							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000919424800001	31	Article; Article		
J	Arscott, Robert								Market Efficiency and Censoring Bias in College Football Gambling								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				24	5			664	689		10.1177/15270025221148991			JUN 2023	2023	The team totals and point spread betting lines jointly predict team scores in college football games. The gambling market's score predictions are shown to be biased due to censoring at zero points. This presents arbitrage opportunities for gamblers who place wagers on the team totals line in cases for which expected bias is high. A naive betting strategy that exploits this bias using only information contained within the two betting lines themselves yields a win percentage of over 55 percent over the past two decades. This significantly exceeds the typical transaction costs associated with wagers, indicating the market is semi-strong inefficient.		[Arscott, Robert] Syracuse Univ, Whitman Sch Management, Syracuse, NY USA; [Arscott, Robert] Syracuse Univ, Whitman Sch Management, 721 Univ Ave, Syracuse, NY 13244 USA; [Arscott, Robert] Syracuse Univ, Whitman Sch Management, 721 Univ Ave, Syracuse, NY 13244 USA								1							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000913952900001	26	Article; Article		
J	Zandbergen, Marit A.; Ter Wengel, Xanthe J.; van Middelaar, Robbert P.; Buurke, Jaap H.; Veltink, Peter H.; Reenalda, Jasper								Peak tibial acceleration should not be used as indicator of tibial bone loading during running								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	10			2953	2970		10.1080/14763141.2022.2164345			OCT 3 2025	2025	Peak tibial acceleration (PTA) is a widely used indicator of tibial bone loading. Indirect bone loading measures are of interest to reduce the risk of stress fractures during running. However, tibial compressive forces are caused by both internal muscle forces and external ground reaction forces. PTA might reflect forces from outside the body, but likely not the compressive force from muscles on the tibial bone. Hence, the strength of the relationship between PTA and maximum tibial compression forces in rearfoot-striking runners was investigated. Twelve runners ran on an instrumented treadmill while tibial acceleration was captured with accelerometers. Force plate and inertial measurement unit data were spatially aligned with a novel method based on the centre of pressure crossing a virtual toe marker. The correlation coefficient between maximum tibial compression forces and PTA was 0.04 +/- 0.14 with a range of -0.15 to +0.28. This study showed a very weak and non-significant correlation between PTA and maximum tibial compression forces while running on a level treadmill at a single speed. Hence, PTA as an indicator for tibial bone loading should be reconsidered, as PTA does not provide a complete picture of both internal and external compressive forces on the tibial bone.		[Zandbergen, Marit A.; Ter Wengel, Xanthe J.; van Middelaar, Robbert P.; Buurke, Jaap H.; Veltink, Peter H.; Reenalda, Jasper] Univ Twente, Fac Elect Engn Math & Comp Sci EEMCS, Dept Biomed Signals & Syst, Enschede, Netherlands; [Zandbergen, Marit A.; Buurke, Jaap H.; Reenalda, Jasper] Roessingh Res & Dev, Dept Rehabil Technol, Enschede, Netherlands; [Zandbergen, Marit A.] Univ Twente, Fac Elect Engn Math & Comp Sci EEMCS, Dept Biomed Signals & Syst, Enschede, Netherlands								37							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000913145600001	59	Article; Article		
J	Businari, Guilherme Borsetti; Brigatto, Felipe Alves; de Camargo, Julio Benvenutti Bueno; Soares, Enrico Gori; Braz, Tiago Volpi; Batista, Danilo Rodrigues; Col, Luan Oenning; Dias, Wellington Goncalves; Rosolem, Jhenipher Moniky; Prestes, Jonato; Marchetti, Paulo Henrique; Lopes, Charles Ricardo								Chronic Effects of Inter-Set Static Stretching on Morphofunctional Outcomes in Recreationally Resistance-Trained Male and Female								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				95	1			10	23		10.1080/02701367.2022.2134547			JAN 2 2024	2024	Purpose: The purpose of this study was to compare the effects of resistance training (RT) with inter-set static stretching (IS) versus traditional RT (TRT) on morphofunctional outcomes in recreationally resistance-trained male and female. Methods: Twenty-two recreationally-trained subjects were allocated to IS group (n = 12) or TRT (n = 10) and completed eight weeks of RT. The only difference between the groups was that IS group included static stretching between sets, while the TRT rested between the sets. Ultrasound images, dynamic and isometric strength tests for the elbow flexors and elbow extensors were evaluated pre- and post-intervention period. Results: Total training volume (TTV) was greater in TRT than IS (p = .031). TRT and IS caused similar increases in maximal dynamic and isometric strength. Fascicle length of the brachialis increased following TRT (p = .033); muscle thickness and the pennation angle of the distal portion of the triceps brachii increased following IS (p = .035 and p = .007, respectively). There were no significant changes in thickness and architecture for biceps brachii in either group. There were no significant differences between groups for any muscle strength and morphology outcome. Conclusion: IS negatively affects TTV but does not affect muscle strength and architecture of recreationally resistance-trained male and female.		[Businari, Guilherme Borsetti; Brigatto, Felipe Alves; de Camargo, Julio Benvenutti Bueno; Soares, Enrico Gori; Braz, Tiago Volpi; Batista, Danilo Rodrigues; Dias, Wellington Goncalves; Rosolem, Jhenipher Moniky; Lopes, Charles Ricardo] Univ Metodista Piracicaba, Piracicaba, Brazil; [Braz, Tiago Volpi] Fac Amer, Americana, Brazil; [Col, Luan Oenning; Lopes, Charles Ricardo] Adventist Univ Ctr Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Prestes, Jonato] Univ Catolica Brasilia, Brasilia, Brazil; [Marchetti, Paulo Henrique] Calif State Univ Northridge, Northridge, CA USA; [Brigatto, Felipe Alves] Methodist Univ Piracicaba UNIMEP, Coll Hlth Sci FACIS, Grad Program Sci Human Movement, Campus Taquaral Rodovia Acucar Km 156, Piracicaba, SP, Brazil; [Brigatto, Felipe Alves] Methodist Univ Piracicaba UNIMEP, Coll Hlth Sci FACIS, Grad Program Sci Human Movement, Campus Taquaral Rodovia Acucar Km 156, Piracicaba, SP, Brazil								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000913533700001	34	Article; Article		
J	Jenner, Brooke; Nottle, Carmel; Walters, Julie L.; Saunders, Steven W.; Leicht, Anthony S.; Crowther, Robert G.								Reliability of the running vertical jump test in female team sport athletes								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				60				47	53		10.1016/j.ptsp.2023.01.005			MAR 2023	2023	Injury rates to the lower limb have increased over the past 40 years, coinciding with increases in female sport participation rates. Sport specific tests such as the running vertical jump (RVJ) are utilised for injury risk profiling, however the test-retest reliability is unknown. Objectives: The aim of this study was to investigate the test-retest reliability of the thorax, pelvis and lower limb joint angular kinematics and kinetics for the RVJ test in female team sport athletes.Design: Three-dimensional motion capture with force plate integration was utilised as participants performed five trials on each limb on three separate days.Setting: Testing occurred in a biomechanics laboratory.Participants: Thirty-four females (Australian Rules Football = 15, Netball = 12, Soccer = 7) participated in this study.Main Outcome Measures: Intraclass correlation coefficients (ICC), effect sizes and typical errors (TE) of segment and joint angular kinematics and kinetics were calculated.Results: Poor to excellent reliability (ICC =-0.12 -0.92), small to large effect sizes (0.00-0.90) and TE (0.02-289.24) were observed across segment and joint angular kinematics and kinetics.Conclusions: The RVJ test is recommended when analysing ground reaction forces and joint angular kinematics in female team sport athletes.(c) 2023 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Jenner, Brooke; Nottle, Carmel; Walters, Julie L.; Crowther, Robert G.] Univ South Australia, UniSA Allied Hlth & Human Performance, Adelaide 5001, Australia; [Jenner, Brooke; Nottle, Carmel; Walters, Julie L.; Crowther, Robert G.] Univ South Australia, Alliance Res Exercise Nutr & Act ARENA, Adelaide 5001, Australia; [Saunders, Steven W.] Saunders Physiotherapy, Adelaide 5000, Australia; [Leicht, Anthony S.] James Cook Univ, Sport & Exercise Sci, Townsville, Qld 4811, Australia; [Jenner, Brooke] Univ South Australia, UniSA Allied Hlth & Human Performance, Adelaide 5001, Australia								2							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000923140700001	34	Article; Article		
J	Casimiro-Artes, Miguel A.; Hileno, Raul; Garcia-de-Alcaraz, Antonio								Applying Unsupervised Machine Learning Models to Identify Serve Performance Related Indicators in Women's Volleyball								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				95	1			47	53		10.1080/02701367.2022.2142494			JAN 2 2024	2024	In volleyball, the effect of different factors on serve performance has usually been analyzed with traditional statistical techniques such as logistic regression or discriminant analysis. Purpose: In this study, two of the main models used in unsupervised machine learning (cluster and principal component analysis) were applied to achieve these objectives: (a) to create groups of players considering their serve coefficient, age, height, and team ranking, and (b) to identify which variables related to the serve (type and performance), the players (role, age, and height), and the teams (ranking, match location, and quality of opposition) most explained the total variance of the data during an entire women's volleyball season. Method: A total of 20,936 serves were analyzed during the 132 matches played in the 2017-2018 season in the Liga Iberdrola (women Spanish first division). The variables were related to the serving action (type of serve and performance), the players' traits (player role, age, and height), and the teams' characteristics (final ranking, match location, quality of opposition, and tournament). Results: Cluster analysis showed five groups of players differing in age, serve coefficient, team ranking, and height. Principal component analysis showed how the first five components explained 72.12% of the total variance. From these components, serve coefficient, team ranking, match location, quality of opposition, and player role each contributed more than 10%. Conclusions: These findings can help coaches to improve talent selection and players' development according to competition demands.		[Casimiro-Artes, Miguel A.] Realtrack Syst SL, Almeria, Spain; [Hileno, Raul] Univ Lleida, Natl Inst Phys Educ Catalonia, Lleida 25192, Spain; [Garcia-de-Alcaraz, Antonio] Univ Almeria, Almeria, Spain; [Hileno, Raul] Univ Lleida, Natl Inst Phys Educ Catalonia, Lleida 25192, Spain								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000917868200001	30	Article; Article		
J	Oliveira, Gledson Tavares Amorim; Costa, Eduardo Caldas; Santos, Tony Meireles; Bezerra, Ricardo Andrade; Lemos, Telma Maria Araujo Moura; Mortatti, Arnaldo Luis; Elsangedy, Hassan Mohamed								Effect of High-Intensity Interval, Moderate-Intensity Continuous, and Self-Selected Intensity Training on Health and Affective Responses								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				95	1			31	46		10.1080/02701367.2022.2141674			JAN 2 2024	2024	Purpose: To compare the effects of 12-week high-intensity interval (HIIT), moderate-intensity continuous (MICT), and self-selected intensity training (SSIT) on health outcomes and affective responses. Methods: Seventy-three overweight/obese inactive adults (62% woman; age, 31.4 +/- 7.2 years; height, 1.66 +/- 0.09 cm; Body mass index, 28.9 +/- 2.7 kg.m(-2)) who were randomized into HIIT (n = 23), MICT (n = 24) and SSIT (n = 26) groups. The training was conducted three times per week in an outdoor environment, with 4 weeks under direct supervision and 8 weeks with semi-supervision. Cardiorespiratory fitness, body composition, and metabolic profile were evaluated at baseline and at the end of the 4(th) and 12(th) weeks. Core affect was measured during all training sessions. Results: Peak oxygen uptake improved in all groups after 4 and 12 weeks compared with baseline. Only the SSIT had reductions in body fat throughout the intervention. No improvements were observed in the metabolic profile across all groups. SSIT was perceived as more pleasurable than HIIT; however, there were no differences in affective responses between SSIT and MICT. Affective responses in-task (e.g. negative and positive peak, rate of change and affect at the end of the exercise session) predicted the HIIT and SSIT exercises attendance rate. Conclusion: Regardless of the exercise training protocol, overweight/obese inactive adults improved health outcomes, which suggests the prescribing HIIT, MICT, and SSIT in outdoor environments. SSIT should be considered in order to optimize the pleasure during training sessions. Affective response more positive in-task of the HIIT and SSIT is associated with greater attendance rate in these exercise protocols.		[Oliveira, Gledson Tavares Amorim; Costa, Eduardo Caldas; Bezerra, Ricardo Andrade; Lemos, Telma Maria Araujo Moura; Mortatti, Arnaldo Luis; Elsangedy, Hassan Mohamed] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Norte, Natal, RN, Brazil; [Santos, Tony Meireles] Univ Fed Pernambuco, Recife, PE, Brazil; [Elsangedy, Hassan Mohamed] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Norte, Dept Phys Educ, 101 Lagoa Nova,Univ Campus, BR-59078970 Natal, Brazil; [Elsangedy, Hassan Mohamed] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Norte, Dept Phys Educ, 101 Lagoa Nova,Univ Campus, BR-59078970 Natal, Brazil								10							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000912897000001	63	Article; Article		
J	Krause, Anne; de Moreira, Ivo da Mota; Walser, Nicolas; Memmert, Daniel; Ritzmann, Ramona								Whole-Body Electromyostimulation Impacts Physiological Responses During Aerobic Running: A Randomized Trial								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	4			1133	1140		10.1080/02701367.2022.2120949			OCT 2 2023	2023	Objective: The aim of the current study was to evaluate the physiological and metabolic responses to running with whole-body electromyostimulation (wbEMS) compared to running without electromyostimulation (control, CG). Methods: Twenty healthy participants (9 male/11 female, age 42 +/- 7 years) conducted an incremental step test with respiratory gas analysis until exhaustion. Trials were conducted as wbEMS and CG in a random order. As outcome measures, (A) objective total exhaustion, (B) athletic responses (max. time and velocity) and (C) physiological and metabolic responses (V'O-2/ kg, V'E, EE, RER, lactate) were compared. (D) The impact on the skeletal muscle was assessed prior, 48 h & 72 h after trial. Results: During both trials, participants (A) ran until total exhaustion. Nonetheless, (B) time and velocity till exhaustion as well as (C) RER prior to the first lactate threshold and V'E were reduced with wbEMS. All other correlates did not differ significantly between wbEMS and CG. Following 48 h and 72 h after the trial with wbEMS, (D) the impact on the skeletal muscle was 7- to 9-fold higher compared to baseline values. Values differed significantly to those after running without wbEMS. Conclusion: With the additional stimulation during voluntary activation, wbEMS induces earlier fatigue and a shift in energy metabolism toward fat utilization. Even during aerobic endurance tasks, a great impact on the skeletal muscle indicated by the rise in CK could be observed which promotes wbEMS as an alternative training stimulus that is easy-to-apply and effective during endurance training.		[Krause, Anne; de Moreira, Ivo da Mota; Memmert, Daniel] German Sport Univ Cologne, Cologne, Germany; [Walser, Nicolas; Ritzmann, Ramona] Rennbahnklinik, Muttenz, Switzerland; [Ritzmann, Ramona] Univ Freiburg, Freiburg, Germany; [Krause, Anne] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Training & Comp Sci Sport, Sportpk Muengersdorf 6, D-50933 Cologne, Germany; [Krause, Anne] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Training & Comp Sci Sport, Sportpk Muengersdorf 6, D-50933 Cologne, Germany								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000917869200001	46	Article; Article		
J	Beerse, Matthew; Callahan, Cian; Barrios, Joaquin								Self-directed kinematic adjustments when learning the kettlebell swing in young adults								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	4			842	858		10.1080/14763141.2022.2161409			APR 3 2025	2025	The kettlebell swing is a complex exercise shown to provide cardiovascular and strength benefits. However, novice kinematic pattern differences might limit the effectiveness of the kettlebell swing to fully realise those benefits. The purpose of this study was to assess how novices self-directed their learning of the kettlebell swing using only an instructional video. Twelve young adults performed kettlebell swings sets over one week. We captured kinematic data of their first sets without practice, sets within-day following practice, and sets one week later following practice. The subjects received no augmented feedback. Ankle, knee, hip, and shoulder mean and variability kinematics were compared. In addition, the relative timing of peak sagittal plane angular velocity of the hip and shoulder was evaluated to determine whether the hips led to the shoulders. Within-day subjects reduced hip and shoulder peak extension, knee and hip peak flexion, and hip peak flexion velocity. Between-day subjects reduced mean hip peak flexion and range of motion, as well as peak knee flexion. Our results suggest novices prioritised improving consistency early in practice and then adjusted their kinematic pattern over the week. Moreover, most subjects transitioned to the hips leading shoulders, suggesting this is a perceivable coordination pattern by intrinsic feedback.		[Beerse, Matthew; Callahan, Cian] Univ Dayton, Dept Hlth & Sport Sci, Dayton, OH 45469 USA; [Barrios, Joaquin] Univ Dayton, Dept Phys Therapy, Dayton, OH USA; [Beerse, Matthew] Univ Dayton, Dept Hlth & Sport Sci, Dayton, OH 45469 USA								1							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000907254900001	38	Article; Article		
J	Chou, Ssu-Yun; Jang, Wooyoung (William); Ma, Shang Chun; Chang, Ching-Hung; Byon, Kevin. K. K.								Is mobile gaming a new pillar of esports? Exploring players' in-game purchases in PC and mobile platforms by using flow and clutch								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				24	2			311	332		10.1108/IJSMS-07-2022-0134			APR 3 2023	2023	PurposeThe tremendous market growth of mobile platforms for esports underscores the need to understand players' psychological states and consumption behavior. Based on flow theory, this study examines players' psychological states (flow and clutch experiences) and consumption behavior based on the interaction effects of playing frequency, playing duration and players' levels on the PC (LOL - League of Legends) and mobile (LOLWR - League of Legends: Wild Rift) versions of the same esports title.Design/methodology/approachData were collected from 930 valid responses and analyzed with confirmatory factor analysis and multiple regression (PROCESS macro, Model 3).FindingsThere are two main findings. First, across PC and mobile participants, casual gamers (low playing frequency and duration) have firm purchase intention when they have a clutch experience, but flow experience hinders their purchasing intention. Second, hardcore gamers' (high playing frequency and duration) psychological states are clearly distinguished according to technological platforms. Flow experience is the most effective for their purchase intention in the PC platform, but both flow and clutch states are important in the mobile platform. Flow experience is essential overall for hardcore gamers to intend their in-game item purchasing.Originality/valueThis study has two primary originality/values. First, this study explores flow and clutch together to measure psychological states and the impact on the purchase intention of in-game items. Second, the interacting effects of playing frequency, duration, and skill level with technical platforms (i.e. PC and mobile) for esports gaming.		[Chou, Ssu-Yun; Ma, Shang Chun] Natl Cheng Kung Univ, Inst Phys Educ Hlth & Leisure Studies, Tainan, Taiwan; [Jang, Wooyoung (William)] Univ West Georgia, Dept Sport Management Wellness & Phys Educ, Carrollton, GA USA; [Chang, Ching-Hung] Natl Univ Kaohsiung, Dept Kinesiol Hlth & Leisure Studies, Kaohsiung, Taiwan; [Byon, Kevin. K. K.] Indiana Univ Bloomington, Dept Kinesiol, Bloomington, IN USA; [Ma, Shang Chun] Natl Cheng Kung Univ, Inst Phys Educ Hlth & Leisure Studies, Tainan, Taiwan								17							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000905954400001	59	Article; Article		
J	Park, Sangchul; Lee, Hyun-Woo								Emphasizing effort vs talent in personal trainers' performance: consumption response of personal fitness training customers								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				24	2			359	374		10.1108/IJSMS-06-2022-0115			APR 3 2023	2023	PurposeFitness service companies often promote the companies' personal training service by attributing trainers' competent characteristics, qualifications or/and service provision to their effort or talent. This promotion is called performance attribution promotion. Utilizing attribution theory and the theory's adjacent studies, this study investigated whether and why performance attribution promotion affects consumers' service purchase of personal fitness training.Design/methodology/approachThe authors developed the experimental stimuli of performance attribution promotion and validated those through a pretest (N = 200). Using the validated stimuli, the authors conducted an experiment with employing a single factor between-subject design (performance attribution promotion: effort vs talent) based on random assignment (N = 200).FindingsThe analysis results revealed that attributing trainers' competent characteristics, qualifications or/and service provision to effort (vs talent) leads to a higher level of service registration intention. Moreover, this effect was mediated by the perceived teaching expertise but not by the perceived teaching trustworthiness.Originality/valueThese findings enrich the literature by illuminating a new mechanism and consequence of performance attribution promotion. The authors' study also extends the marketing studies related to expertise perception by presenting the attribution of visible features as one of the characteristics determining expertise perception. Finally, the authors' findings also have implications for fitness service companies and other stakeholders that seek to effectively leverage trainers' competent outcomes for consumer acquisition.		[Park, Sangchul] Alma Coll, Dept Business Adm, Alma, MI 48801 USA; [Lee, Hyun-Woo] Texas A&M Univ, Div Sport Management, College Stn, TX USA; [Park, Sangchul] Alma Coll, Dept Business Adm, Alma, MI 48801 USA								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000905959900001	52	Article; Article		
J	Pronczuk, Magdalena; Trybek, Grzegorz; Terbalyan, Artur; Markowski, Jaroslaw; Pilch, Jan; Krzysztofik, Michal; Kostrzewa, Maciej; Mostowik, Aleksandra; Maszczyk, Adam								The Effects of EEG Biofeedback Training on Visual Reaction Time in Judo Athletes								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				89	1			247	258		10.5114/jhk/174272			2023	2023	The aim of the study was to expand the current knowledge on the effects of EEG biofeedback training on the reaction time of judo athletes, as well as to develop an optimal EEG training protocol in terms of the number of sessions and their duration that would significantly improve the reaction time of athletes. The study included 24 male athletes from the national team of the Polish Judo Association. The selected group was randomly divided into two subgroups: experimental and control. The study was conducted in four cycles varying in terms of frequency and duration of neurofeedback (NFB) sessions, both in the control and experimental groups. In the experimental group, each training cycle consisted of 15 sessions, followed by a four-week break. The effects of NFB training on the visual reaction time of judo athletes were evaluated using computerized simple and complex reaction time tests along with selected trials of the Vienna Test System (VTS). Following NFB training according to the theta/beta1 protocol, while maintaining appropriate duration and frequency of individual training sessions, statistically significant improvements in reaction times to visual stimuli of athletes, both in simple and complex tasks, were observed in the experimental group. No such changes were found in the control group. The greatest improvement in reaction times was observed in complex tasks, indicating the high effectiveness of EEG biofeedback training in enhancing this ability.		[Pronczuk, Magdalena; Terbalyan, Artur; Krzysztofik, Michal; Kostrzewa, Maciej; Mostowik, Aleksandra; Maszczyk, Adam] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ, Inst Sport Sci, Katowice, Poland; [Trybek, Grzegorz] Pomeranian Med Univ, Dept Oral Surg, Szczecin, Poland; [Markowski, Jaroslaw] Med Univ Silesia, Dept Laryngol, Fac Med Sci, Katowice, Poland; [Pilch, Jan] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ, Dept Physiol & Med Sci, Katowice, Poland; [Maszczyk, Adam] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ, Inst Sport Sci, Katowice, Poland								11							Sport Sciences	WOS:001147030100019	24	Article; Article		
J	Ipekoglu, Gokhan; Cetin, Tugba; Apaydin, Necdet; Calcali, Tugce; Senel, Ebru								The Role of AGT, AMPD1, HIF1α, IL-6 Gene Polymorphisms in the Athletes' Power Status: A Meta-Analysis								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				89	1			77	87		10.5114/jhk/169262			2023	2023	This meta-analysis was designed to investigate the relationship between genetic polymorphisms (AGT rs699, AMPD1 rs17602729, HIF1 alpha rs11549465, IL-6 rs1800795) and power athletes' status. Only case-control studies were included in the meta-analysis. A systematic search of the PubMed and Web of Science databases was performed to identify relevant studies and 23 studies met the inclusion criteria for the meta-analysis. The data from the included studies were pooled and analyzed using a random effects or fix effects model. The effect size was calculated as the odds ratio or a risk ratio with 95% confidence intervals. The results showed that certain genetic polymorphisms, AGT rs699 Thr allele, HIF1A rs11549465 Ser allele and AMPD1 rs17602729 C allele, were significantly more prevalent in power athletes (p < 0.05). When examining the genotype frequency distribution of AGT rs699 and AMPD1 rs17602729, significant differences were found in both the dominant and recessive models (p < 0.05). The results indicate that these gene polymorphisms play a role in power athlete status, however, new and more comprehensive studies are needed to confirm these results.		[Ipekoglu, Gokhan; Apaydin, Necdet; Senel, Ebru] Ordu Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Ordu, Turkiye; [Cetin, Tugba] Karabuk Univ, Sch Phys Educ & Sports, Karabuk, Turkiye; [Calcali, Tugce] Giresun Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Giresun, Turkiye; [Cetin, Tugba] Karabuk Univ, Sch Phys Educ & Sports, Karabuk, Turkiye								7							Sport Sciences	WOS:001147030100007	32	Article; Article		
J	Castillo-Rodriguez, Alfonso; Rodriguez Caparros, Jesus Lorenzo; Figueiredo, Antonio; Tomas Gonzalez-Fernandez, Francisco; Onetti-Onetti, Wanesa								Cause-Effect: The Relationship between Role and Experience with Psychological and Physical Responses in the Competition Context in Soccer Referees								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				89	1			289	300		10.5114/jhk/169174			2023	2023	This study analyzed the effects of psychological responses (impulsivity, self-esteem, self-confidence, and anxiety) in baseline and pre-competitive contexts of national soccer referees (SRs), their control of the game (yellow and red cards), and physical performance (PP) according to the role (assistant or main referee), and experience in the category. Twenty-seven national SRs from Spain participated in this study. Baseline and pre-competitive psychological data were collected through the Competitive State Anxiety Inventory-2 (CSAI-2 test), Urgency, Premeditation (lack of), Perseverance (lack of), Sensation Seeking, Positive Urgency, Impulsive Behavior Scale (UPPS-P test), and Rosenberg tests. Furthermore, WIMU PROT inertial devices were used to monitor PP. The results indicated that a lack of perseverance and self-esteem were higher in the main SRs and somatic anxiety in assistant SRs. Experience of SRs was related to anxiety, self-confidence, self-esteem, impulsivity dimensions, and PP metrics (p < 0.05). Finally, red cards were related to positive and negative urgency (r = 0.38 and r = 0.35, p < 0.05, respectively). In conclusion, the main SRs and SRs with more experience had better psychological characteristics and PP in a competitive context. However, yellow and red cards were not associated with these factors, although red cards were related with urgency. Based on these data, specific training programs could be incorporated to enhance emotional control in SRs with less experience to achieve greater performance and professional development.		[Castillo-Rodriguez, Alfonso; Rodriguez Caparros, Jesus Lorenzo; Tomas Gonzalez-Fernandez, Francisco] Univ Granada, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sports, Granada, Spain; [Figueiredo, Antonio] Univ Coimbra, Fac Sport Sci & Phys Educ, Res Unit Sport & Phys Act, Coimbra, Portugal; [Onetti-Onetti, Wanesa] Univ Internac La Rioja, Fac Educ, Logrono, Spain; [Tomas Gonzalez-Fernandez, Francisco] Univ Granada, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sports, Granada, Spain								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:001147030100023	48	Article; Article		
J	Alanen, Aki-Matti; Gibson, Eric S.; Critchley, Meghan; Benson, Lauren C.; Jordan, Matthew J.; Ferber, Reed; Pasanen, Kati								Differences in Situational Patterns During Change of Direction Movements Greater than 90° in Youth Male and Female Soccer Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				89	1			149	160		10.5114/jhk/169524			2023	2023	Change of direction (COD) maneuvers in soccer create tactical advantages, but also expose the player to an increased risk of injury. COD ability is commonly tested with pre-planned drills including cuts greater than 90 degrees. These tests do not take into consideration positional differences players encounter during games. This case-series study used principal component analysis (PCA) to examine situational differences during COD movements between playing positions in youth soccer games. For each of the four teams included (26 females, 27 males), one game was analyzed using video-analysis. Two independent reviewers identified situational patterns and a PCA was used to examine differences between playing positions. Three principal components explained 89% of the variation in the data and were categorized as the total quantity of CODs, attacking/goal-scoring and defensive reacting types of CODs. One-way ANOVA on the individual principal component (PC) scores showed significant differences (p < 0.05) between centre midfielders, goalkeepers, and centrebacks in the quantity of CODs (PC1), and between wingers and fullbacks and centre backs in attacking/goal-scoring CODs (PC2), whereas PC3 was not different between playing positions. Differences between playing positions suggest that training and testing protocols in soccer could be enhanced to better match the individual and playing position-based needs.		[Alanen, Aki-Matti; Gibson, Eric S.; Jordan, Matthew J.; Pasanen, Kati] Univ Calgary, Fac Kinesiol, Integrat Neuromuscular Sport Performance Lab, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Alanen, Aki-Matti; Gibson, Eric S.; Critchley, Meghan; Benson, Lauren C.; Pasanen, Kati] Univ Calgary, Fac Kinesiol, Sport Injury Prevent Res Ctr, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Benson, Lauren C.] Tonal Strength Inst, San Francisco, CA USA; [Jordan, Matthew J.] Univ Calgary, Fac Kinesiol, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Jordan, Matthew J.; Ferber, Reed; Pasanen, Kati] Univ Calgary, McCaig Inst Bone & Joint Hlth, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Ferber, Reed] Running Injury Clin, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Ferber, Reed] Univ Calgary, Cumming Sch Med, Fac Nursing, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Pasanen, Kati] Univ Calgary, Alberta Childrens Hosp, Res Inst, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Pasanen, Kati] UKK Inst, Tampere Res Ctr Sports Med, Tampere, Finland; [Alanen, Aki-Matti] Univ Calgary, Fac Kinesiol, Integrat Neuromuscular Sport Performance Lab, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Alanen, Aki-Matti] Univ Calgary, Fac Kinesiol, Sport Injury Prevent Res Ctr, Calgary, AB, Canada								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:001147030100013	43	Article; Article		
J	Huminska-Lisowska, Kinga; Chmielowiec, Krzysztof; Chmielowiec, Jolanta; Stronska-Pluta, Aleksandra; Bojarczuk, Aleksandra; Dzitkowska-Zabielska, Magdalena; Lubkowska, Beata; Spieszny, Michal; Surala, Olga; Grzywacz, Anna								Association Between the rs4680 Polymorphism of the COMT Gene and Personality Traits among Combat Sports Athletes								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				89	1			89	99		10.5114/jhk/168789			2023	2023	Physical performance has been the focus of studies examining genetic influences in martial arts. There has been little quantitative analysis of the interaction between psychological traits and gene variants in athletes. This study aimed to determine whether the rs4680 polymorphism of the COMT gene (catechol-O-methyltransferase) was linked to other sports phenotypes such as temperament, mental toughness, and stress tolerance. In our study, we concentrated on the case-control analysis of athletes in the aspect of their personality traits in association with the COMT gene polymorphism. Participants comprised 258 combat sports athletes and 278 healthy male individuals as a control group. Psychometric properties were assessed with the Revised Temperament and Character Inventory (TCI-R). COMT polymorphism testing was performed using real-time PCR. We found a statistically significant effect of a complex factor COMT rs4680 genotype with combat athletes/controls and novelty seeking (F-2,F-530 = 5.958, p = 0.0028, eta(2) = 0.022), self-management (F-2,F-530 = 6.772, p = 0.0012, eta(2) = 0.025), and with self-transcendence skills (F-2,F-530 = 9.387, p = 0.00009, eta(2) = 0.034). The results are important for encouraging further studies on the genetic makeup of athletes in conjunction with personality traits. Due to the multigene and multifactorial nature of determinants of sports predispositions, we propose to take into account also other features, especially when studying genes related to cerebral neurotransmission. It is a holistic departure, and it clearly illustrates the relationship between the given characteristics of an athlete.		[Huminska-Lisowska, Kinga; Bojarczuk, Aleksandra; Dzitkowska-Zabielska, Magdalena; Lubkowska, Beata] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, Fac Phys Educ, Gdansk, Poland; [Huminska-Lisowska, Kinga; Spieszny, Michal] Univ Phys Educ Krakow, Inst Sports Sci, Krakow, Poland; [Chmielowiec, Krzysztof; Chmielowiec, Jolanta] Univ Zielona Gora, Dept Hyg & Epidemiol, Coll Med, Zielona Gora, Poland; [Stronska-Pluta, Aleksandra; Grzywacz, Anna] Pomeranian Med Univ, Independent Lab Hlth Promot, Szczecin, Poland; [Surala, Olga] Inst Sport, Natl Res Inst, Warsaw, Poland; [Grzywacz, Anna] Pomeranian Med Univ, Independent Lab Hlth Promot, Szczecin, Poland								13							Sport Sciences	WOS:001147030100008	29	Article; Article		
J	Sabag, Eran; Lidor, Ronnie; Arnon, Michal; Morgulev, Elia; Bar-Eli, Michael								Teamwork and Decision Making among Basketball Referees: The 3PO Principle, Refereeing Level, and Experience								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				89	1			313	326		10.5114/jhk/169439			2023	2023	In this study, the three-person officiating (3PO) principle was employed as an innovative method to examine decision-making (DM) processes among basketball referees. We aimed at exploring whether the ranking, experience, and teamwork among 25 basketball referees could predict accuracy of DM in ambiguous situations taken from basketball games. An analysis of 283 officiating cases taken from 100 filmed games was conducted. The events were then classified by nine experts according to whether the officiating decision was accurate, and which referee (Lead, Centre or Trail) was standing in the main coverage area, as per the 3PO principle, when the decision was made. Our findings indicate that the teamwork (coordination) component was associated with the quality of DM. Of the 283 events, 60 decisions (21%) were not made from the recommended position according to the 3PO principle; 49 of those decisions were incorrect. The findings are discussed from both developmental and instructional perspectives.		[Sabag, Eran; Lidor, Ronnie; Arnon, Michal; Morgulev, Elia; Bar-Eli, Michael] Levinsky Wingate Acad Coll, Dept Movement & Sport Sci, Netanya, Israel; [Sabag, Eran; Morgulev, Elia] Kaye Acad Coll Educ, Dept Phys Educ, Beer Sheva, Israel; [Bar-Eli, Michael] Ben Gurion Univ Negev, Guilford Glazer Fac Business & Management, Dept Business Adm, Beer Sheva, Israel; [Sabag, Eran] Levinsky Wingate Acad Coll, Dept Movement & Sport Sci, Netanya, Israel; [Sabag, Eran] Kaye Acad Coll Educ, Dept Phys Educ, Beer Sheva, Israel								9							Sport Sciences	WOS:001147030100025	55	Article; Article		
J	Hileno, Raul; Gonzalez-Franque, Marc; Iricibar, Albert; Laporta, Lorenzo; Garcia-de-Alcaraz, Antonio								Comparison of Rally Length between Women and Men in High-Level Spanish Volleyball								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				89	1			171	185		10.5114/jhk/167053			2023	2023	The aim of this study was to evaluate whether the rally length in high-level Spanish volleyball was longer in women than in men. A total of 1,786 rallies were observed: 792 for women and 994 for men. The recorded variables were match (quarter-final 1, quarter-final 2, semi-final 1, semi-final 2, final), gender (men, women), rally length (seconds), pseudo-rally (no, yes), and terminal event (ball out of sight, ball in/out, fault). Different non-parametric statistical techniques were used to compare the rally length between groups or subsets of data, i.e., the Kruskal-Wallis H test, the Mann-Whitney U test, quantile regression, and survival analysis. The mean and median rally length was significantly and slightly longer in women than in men. The rally length difference between genders was barely 1 s in quantile 0.5 or median, while in quantile 0.95, it was just over 4 s. In women, the probability of ending the rally at 3.9, 5.1, 10.2, and 43.9 s (at 4.4, 6.3, 11.6, and 43.9 s without pseudo-rallies) was 25%, 50%, 75%, and 100%, respectively. In men, the probability of ending the rally at 3.2, 4.3, 7.9, and 29.1 s (at 3.9, 4.8, 8.8, and 29.1 s without pseudo-rallies) was 25%, 50%, 75%, and 100%, respectively. These temporal thresholds can help volleyball coaches to train their players in a coherent manner.		[Hileno, Raul; Gonzalez-Franque, Marc; Iricibar, Albert] Univ Lleida, Natl Inst Phys Educ Catalonia, Lleida, Spain; [Laporta, Lorenzo] Univ Fed Santa Maria, Nucleo Estudos Performance Anal Esportes NEPAE UF, Ctr Educ Fis & Desportos, Santa Maria, RS, Brazil; [Garcia-de-Alcaraz, Antonio] Univ Almeria, Fac Educ Sci, Almeria, Spain; [Laporta, Lorenzo] Univ Fed Santa Maria, Nucleo Estudos Performance Anal Esportes NEPAE UF, Ctr Educ Fis & Desportos, Santa Maria, RS, Brazil								8							Sport Sciences	WOS:001147030100015	42	Article; Article		
J	Doma, Kenji; Connor, Jonathan D.; Nakamura, Fabio Y.; Leicht, Anthony S.								Intra-Session Reliability of Sprint Performance on a Non-Motorised Treadmill for Healthy Active Males and Females								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				88	1			163	171		10.5114/jhk/163180			2023	2023	This study examined the intra-session reliability of sprint performance on a non-motorized treadmill amongst healthy, active male and female adults. One hundred and twenty participants (males n = 77; females n = 45) completed two familiarization sessions, followed by a third session that consisted of three trials (T1, T2, T3) of maximal sprints (4-s), interspersed by three minutes of recovery. Combining males and females exhibited moderate-to-excellent test-retest reliability (intra-class correlation coefficient, ICC), minimal measurement error (coefficient of variation, CV) and trivial differences between trials (effect size, ES) for speed, power, total work and acceleration (ICC = 0.82-0.98, CV = 1.31-8.45%, ES = 0.01-0.22). The measurement error was improved between comparisons of T1 vs. T2 (CV = 1.62-8.45%, ES = 0.12-0.22) to T2 vs. T3 (CV = 1.31-6.56%, ES = 0.01-0.07) and better for females (CV = 1.26-7.94%, ES = 0.001-0.26) than males (CV = 1.33-8.53%, ES = 0.06-0.31). The current study demonstrated moderate-to-excellent reliability and good-moderate measurement error during a 4-s sprint on a non-motorized treadmill. However, sex had a substantial impact with females exhibiting better values. Practitioners should employ at least two separate trials within a session, in addition to multiple familiarization sessions, to achieve reliable non-motorized treadmill sprint performances.		[Doma, Kenji; Connor, Jonathan D.; Leicht, Anthony S.] James Cook Univ, Sport & Exercise Sci, Townsville, Qld, Australia; [Nakamura, Fabio Y.] Univ Maia ISMAI, Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev CIDESD, Maia, Portugal; [Doma, Kenji] James Cook Univ, Sport & Exercise Sci, Townsville, Qld, Australia								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:001126122800010	25	Article; Article		
J	Piotrowicz, Zofia; Czuba, Milosz; Chalimoniuk, Malgorzata; Langfort, Jozef								The Impact of Acute Mild Normobaric Hypoxia and a Single Bout of Exercise to Volitional Exhaustion on Cognitive Performance in Endurance and Strength-Trained Athletes: The role of BDNF, EP-1, Catecholamines and Lactate								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				88	1			77	93		10.5114/jhk/168282			2023	2023	The aim of the study was to examine whether a single bout of exercise to volitional exhaustion, performed under moderate normobaric hypoxia (H), would affect psychomotor performance (PP) in differently trained athletes. For this purpose, ten strength-trained (S) athletes, ten endurance-trained (E) athletes and ten healthy men leading a sedentary lifestyle as a control (C) group performed voluntarily two graded exercise tests until volitional exhaustion (EVE) under normoxia (N) and H (FiO(2) = 14.7%). We measured the peripheral level of the brain derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), choice reaction time (CRT) and the number of correct reactions (NCR) as indices of PP. Psychomotor tests were performed at rest, immediately after the EVE and 3 minutes after the EVE. Venous blood samples were collected at rest, immediately after cessation of each EVE, and 1 h after each EVE. The results showed that the EVE significantly (p < 0.05) impaired CRT under N and H, and NCR under H only in the E group. The higher WRmax in the E compared to the S and C groups was associated with a significant (p < 0.005) increase in adrenaline (A) and noradrenaline (NA). There were no significant differences between conditions (N vs. H) in the BDNF at rest and after exercise. The EVE impaired cognitive function only in the E group; higher involvement of the sympathetic nervous system, A and NA may also play a role in this phenomenon. Therefore, it can be concluded that exposure to H did not have a negative impact on CRT or NCR. Moreover, BDNF did not improve cognitive function.		[Piotrowicz, Zofia; Langfort, Jozef] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ, Inst Sport Sci, Katowice, Poland; [Czuba, Milosz] Univ Zielona Gora, Coll Med, Dept Appl & Clin Physiol, Zielona Gora, Poland; [Chalimoniuk, Malgorzata] Jozef Pilsudski Univ Phys Educ Warsaw, Dept Phys Educ & Hlth Biala Podlaska, Biala Podlaska, Poland; [Piotrowicz, Zofia] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ, Inst Sport Sci, Katowice, Poland								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:001126122800018	67	Article; Article		
J	Wodarski, Piotr								Trend Change Analysis as a New Tool to Complement the Evaluation of Human Body Balance in the Time and Frequency Domains								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				88	1			51	62		10.5114/jhk/163058			2023	2023	Trend change analysis is a tool that complements the assessment of human body stability and provides information on the number and frequency of postural corrections during an examination. The present research aims to determine the possibility of using this method of analysis to investigate postural stability during tests of standing with open eyes (OE) and closed eyes (CE). A total of 118 participants (67 females, 51males) aged 23 (SD 1.3) were assessed. Tests involved standing on a stabilographic platform for 50 s. Trend change analysis was used to evaluate displacement values of the center of pressure (COP). Values for the COP courses as well as values associated with trend change analysis, such as: TCI, MACD_t and MACD_V were determined. Histograms of distribution were plotted for TCI values. The present study provides information on alterations of the strategy used for maintaining balance, which are associated with the number of postural corrections and COP displacement between corrections for measurements taken during the standing test with CE in relation to OE measurements. The strategy demonstrated an ability to detect a smaller number of quick corrections, an increased number of corrections of longer duration, and the elongation of displacement between subsequent postural corrections. Slight standard deviations in TCI and MACD_t values calculated during trend change analysis, for both the OE and CE conditions, made it possible to classify these values as indexes of postural stability with significant sensitivity to slight changes.		[Wodarski, Piotr] Silesian Tech Univ, Dept Biomechatron, Fac Biomed Engn, Gliwice, Poland; [Wodarski, Piotr] Silesian Tech Univ, Dept Biomechatron, Fac Biomed Engn, Gliwice, Poland								6							Sport Sciences	WOS:001126122800004	34	Article; Article		
J	Albaladejo-Saura, Mario; Vaquero-Cristobal, Raquel; Garcia-Roca, Juan A.; Esparza-Ros, Francisco								What Variables Allow the Differentiation between More and Less Successful Adolescent Volleyball Players?								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				88	1			229	242		10.5114/jhk/166107			2023	2023	Kinanthropometric and physical fitness variables have been habitually used for the detection of sports talent in adolescent populations. Considering these variables, players who obtained better scores than their peers in kinanthropometric and physical fitness variables have been traditionally selected for promotion in their teams, without taking into account the possible effect of the maturation process. The aim of the present study was to analyse the differences between adolescent volleyball players in terms of success assessment and the age category, as well as to identify variables that may predict success in volleyball. A total of 101 volleyball players in the U14 age category (28 boys and 73 girls; age = 13.28 +/- 0.49 years) and 99 players in the U16 age category (20 boys and 79 girls; age = 15.24 +/- 0.59 years) participated in the study. Significant differences were observed in biological maturation in male groups (p < 0.001-0.041), kinanthropometric variables related to bone structure and muscle mass in male groups (p < 0.001-0.048), in variables related to adipose tissue in the U16 female group (p = 0.012-0.032) and in physical fitness tests related to muscle strength and power (p < 0.001-0.049), indicating that more successful (MS) players showed a more advanced biological maturation process, higher values of kinanthropometric variables related to bone structure and muscle mass, and lower values in variables related to adipose tissue, as well as higher levels of physical fitness. The difference in biological maturation and its relationship with structural and muscular anthropometric variables in boys, and physical fitness tests related to muscle strength and power in both boys and girls, are of great importance in the selection process of sports talent in volleyball. These findings should be considered by clubs and coaches, who could be discarding players who could improve their sports performance in later stages when their maturational development is equalised.		[Albaladejo-Saura, Mario; Vaquero-Cristobal, Raquel; Esparza-Ros, Francisco] Univ Catolica Murcia UCAM, Int Kinanthropometry Chair, Murcia, Spain; [Vaquero-Cristobal, Raquel; Garcia-Roca, Juan A.] Univ Catolica Murcia UCAM, Fac Sport Sci, Murcia, Spain; [Garcia-Roca, Juan A.] Univ Catolica Murcia UCAM, Ctr Olymp Studies, Murcia, Spain; [Vaquero-Cristobal, Raquel] Univ Catolica Murcia UCAM, Int Kinanthropometry Chair, Murcia, Spain; [Vaquero-Cristobal, Raquel] Univ Catolica Murcia UCAM, Fac Sport Sci, Murcia, Spain								12							Sport Sciences	WOS:001126122800013	46	Article; Article		
J	Garbisu-Hualde, Arkaitz; Gutierrez, Laura; Fernandez-Pena, Eneko; Santos-Concejero, Jordan								Intermittent Voluntary Isometric Contractions Effects on Performance Enhancement and Sticking Region Kinematics in the Bench Press								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				87				105	117		10.5114/jhk/161777			2023	2023	During the last years, post-activation performance enhancement (PAPE) has gained notorious popularity due to the capacity to improve the acute rate of force development (RFD) using different strategies with different muscle contraction regimes as conditioning stimuli. The aim of the present study was to analyse the role of a maximal isometric post-activation performance enhancement (PAPE) protocol in performance and its effects on the kinematics of the sticking region. Twenty-one trained participants (age 26.4 +/- 5.4 years) underwent two experimental sessions: an experimental session consisting of a single set and a single repetition of the bench press at the 93% of 1RM (which is considered a traditional conditioning activity to induce PAPE) (TRAD) and an isometric experimental session (ISO) consisting of 15 maximal voluntary isometric contractions in the sticking region of the medium grip bench press lasting 1 s with a 1 s rest interval between contractions. Both TRAD and ISO experimental conditions improved performance from post0 to post4, post8, post12 and post16, but only the ISO condition improved performance from the start of the lift to the start of the sticking region from pre to post (p < 0.001), and only the ISO condition improved maximum (p = 0.005) and minimum (p = 0.025) peak velocities. The results of this study suggest that short duration maximal voluntary isometric contractions improve the velocity of the lift prior to the initiation of the sticking region, which ultimately improves the impulse and facilitates the lift.		[Garbisu-Hualde, Arkaitz; Gutierrez, Laura; Fernandez-Pena, Eneko; Santos-Concejero, Jordan] Univ Basque Country UPV EHU, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Vitoria, Spain; [Garbisu-Hualde, Arkaitz] Univ Basque Country UPV EHU, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Vitoria, Spain								8							Sport Sciences	WOS:001115586600002	32	Article; Article		
J	Muyor, Jose M.; Rodriguez-Ridao, David; Oliva-Lozano, Jose M.								Comparison of Muscle Activity between the Horizontal Bench Press and the Seated Chest Press Exercises Using Several Grips								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				87				23	34		10.5114/jhk/161468			2023	2023	This study aims to compare muscle activity in the pectoralis major, anterior deltoid, and triceps brachii in the horizontal bench press exercise with a prone grip at 150% and 50% of the biacromial width and the seated chest press exercise with two types of grips (a neutral grip at similar to 150% of the biacromial width and a prone grip at similar to 200% of the biacromial width). Twenty physically active adults performed a set of 8 repetitions at 60% of the one repetition maximum. The results showed that the clavicular portion of the pectoralis major had significantly greater muscle activity in the seated chest press exercise with a neutral grip (similar to 30% of the maximal voluntary isometric contraction (MVIC)) than in the lying bench press exercise with a prone grip at 150% of the biacromial width (similar to 25% MVIC). The muscle activity of the anterior deltoid was not significantly different across any exercise or grip evaluated (similar to 24% MVIC). The muscle activity of the triceps brachii was significantly higher in the lying bench press exercise with a grip at 50% biacromial width (similar to 16% MVIC) than at 150% of the biacromial width (similar to 12% MVIC). In conclusion, all exercises and grips showed similar muscle activity, and the selection of these exercises should not be based exclusively on the grounds of muscle activation but rather on the load capacity lifted, the level of technique of the participant, and/or the transference to the specific sporting discipline or event.		[Muyor, Jose M.; Rodriguez-Ridao, David; Oliva-Lozano, Jose M.] Univ Almeria, Fac Educ Sci, Hlth Res Ctr, Almeria, Spain; [Muyor, Jose M.] Univ Almeria, Fac Educ Sci, Hlth Res Ctr, Almeria, Spain								7							Sport Sciences	WOS:001115586600016	39	Article; Article		
J	Lemoyne, Jean; Trudeau, Francois; Grondin, Simon								The Relative Age Effect in Ice Hockey: Analysis of Its Presence, Its Fading and of a Reversal Effect among Junior and Professional Leagues								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				87				119	131		10.5114/jhk/161573			2023	2023	This study analyzes the relative age effect (RAE) among the world's best junior hockey leagues and in the NHL. Despite the prevalence of RAE in ice hockey, past research suggests its fading-reversal over time, which may occur at later stages of athletic development. The hypothesis of the RAE reversal was tested with two sources of raw data files from the 2021-2022 season: 15 of the best international junior and minor professional leagues (N = 7 399) and the NHL (N = 812). Birth quartile distributions were analyzed to verify the prevalence of RAE and quantile regression was used to test the reversal of RAE hypotheses. Advanced hockey metrics were aggregated from multiple data sources and used to compare early born with late born players using birth quartiles. Prevalence of the RAE was verified with crosstabs analyses and quantile regression was used to test the reversal effect. Results indicated that the RAE still prevailed in ice hockey, with higher magnitude in Canadian leagues. Regression analyses showed that late-born junior and minor pro players, despite getting less exposure in terms of games played, attained levels of offensive production similar to those of early born players. Late-born players able to emerge in the NHL performed similarly and sometimes displayed better performance (in some markers). Results suggest that stakeholders should find ways to pay special attention to late born players in talent identification processes and offer them opportunities to develop at the highest levels.		[Lemoyne, Jean; Trudeau, Francois] Univ Quebec Trois Rivieres, Dept Human Kinet, Trois Rivieres, PQ, Canada; [Lemoyne, Jean; Trudeau, Francois] Univ Quebec Trois Rivieres, Grp Interdisciplinaire Rech Appl Sante GIRAS, Trois Rivieres, PQ, Canada; [Lemoyne, Jean; Trudeau, Francois] Univ Quebec Trois Rivieres, Lab Rech Hockey, Trois Rivieres, PQ, Canada; [Grondin, Simon] Univ Laval, Sch Psychol, Quebec City, PQ, Canada; [Lemoyne, Jean] Univ Quebec Trois Rivieres, Dept Human Kinet, Trois Rivieres, PQ, Canada; [Lemoyne, Jean] Univ Quebec Trois Rivieres, Grp Interdisciplinaire Rech Appl Sante GIRAS, Trois Rivieres, PQ, Canada; [Lemoyne, Jean] Univ Quebec Trois Rivieres, Lab Rech Hockey, Trois Rivieres, PQ, Canada								13							Sport Sciences	WOS:001115586600008	43	Article; Article		
J	Matykiewicz, Patryk; Krzysztofik, Micha l; Zajac, Adam								A Comparison of Basic Training Variables in the Standard and Cambered Bar Bench Press Performed to Volitional Exhaustion								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				87				201	210		10.5114/jhk/162516			2023	2023	The objective of this study was to compare the impact of cambered and standard barbells used during the bench press exercise on the number of performed repetitions and mean velocity during a bench press training session that included 5 sets performed to volitional failure at 70% of one-repetition maximum (1RM) (for each barbell type). An additional objective was to determine whether there would be any difference in neuromuscular fatigue assessed by peak velocity changes during bench press throws performed 1 and 24 hours after the cessation of each session. The research participants included 12 healthy resistance-trained men. Participants performed 5 sets of the bench press exercise to volitional failure against 70% of 1RM with the cambered or standard barbell. The Friedman's test showed an overall trend of a significant decrease in the mean velocity (p < 0.001) and a number of performed repetitions (p < 0.001) from the first to the fifth set (p < 0.006 and p < 0.02, respectively for all) under both conditions, yet neither bar showed significant differences between the corresponding sets. Two-way ANOVA indicated a significant main effect of time (p < 0.001) for peak velocity during the bench press throw. The post-hoc comparisons showed significantly lower peak velocity during the bench press throw one hour after the bench press compared to pre (p = 0.003) and 24-hour post intervention (p = 0.007). Both barbells caused a similar decrease in peak barbell velocity during the bench press throw performed one hour after the bench press training session, with values returning to baseline 24 hours later. This indicates that bench press workouts with either a standard or a cambered barbell present the same training demands.		[Matykiewicz, Patryk; Krzysztofik, Micha l; Zajac, Adam] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Inst Sport Sci, Katowice, Poland; [Matykiewicz, Patryk] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Inst Sport Sci, Katowice, Poland								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:001115586600011	25	Article; Article		
J	Lockie, Robert G.; Orr, Robin M.; Montes, Fernando; Dawes, J. Jay								Change-of-Direction Speed in Firefighter Trainees: Fitness Relationships and Implications for Occupational Performance								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				87				225	233		10.5114/jhk/161545			2023	2023	Change-of-direction (COD) speed and ability could assist a firefighter moving about the fire ground more efficiently. There has been limited investigations of COD speed in firefighter trainees, and what measures of fitness could contribute to faster performance in a test such as the Illinois agility test (IAT), which measures longer COD speed. This study analyzed archival data from 292 trainees (262 males, 30 females). The trainees completed the following fitness tests at their training academy: IAT, push-ups, pull-ups, leg tucks, 20-m multistage fitness test to measure estimated maximal aerobic capacity (VO2max), backwards overhead 4.54-kg medicine ball throw (BOMBT), 10-repetition maximum (10RM) deadlift, and a 91.44-m farmer's carry with 2 x 18-kg kettlebells. Independent samples t-tests compared male and female trainees to determine the need to control for trainee sex in the analyses. Partial correlations, controlling for trainee sex, analyzed relationships between the IAT and fitness tests. Stepwise regression analyses controlling for trainee sex determined if any fitness test predicted the IAT. On average, male trainees outperformed females in all fitness tests (p <= 0.002). The IAT significantly related to all fitness tests (r = +/- 0.138-0.439, p <= 0.019), and was predicted by trainee sex, estimated VO2max, the 10RM deadlift, BOMBT, and the farmer's carry (R = 0.631; R-2 = 0.398; adjusted R-2 = 0.388). The results indicate the trainees who are generally fit may perform well in a range of different fitness tests, including the IAT. Nonetheless, improving muscular strength (measured by the 10RM deadlift), total-body power (BOMBT), and metabolic capacity (estimated VO2max, farmer's carry) could enhance COD speed in firefighter trainees.		[Lockie, Robert G.] Calif State Univ Fullerton, Dept Kinesiol, Fullerton, CA 92831 USA; [Orr, Robin M.] Bond Univ, Tact Res Unit, Robina, Qld, Australia; [Montes, Fernando] Los Angeles Cty Fire Dept, Los Angeles, CA USA; [Dawes, J. Jay] Oklahoma State Univ, Tact Fitness & Nutr Lab, Stillwater, OK USA; [Lockie, Robert G.] Calif State Univ Fullerton, Dept Kinesiol, Fullerton, CA 92831 USA								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:001115586600003	32	Article; Article		
J	Rabano-Munoz, Alberto; Suarez-Arrones, Luis; Requena, Bernardo; Asian-Clemente, Jose A.								Internal and External Loads of Young Elite Soccer Players during Defensive Small-Sided Games								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				87				179	188		10.5114/jhk/162027			2023	2023	The aim of this study was to evaluate the effects of different time periods on the internal and external loads of soccer players during small-sided games (SSGs). Seventeen young soccer players performed a SSG of 5 vs. 5 + 5 with 2 floaters, where two teams had possession of the ball, and one had to recover it. With established periods of 30 s (SSG(30)), 1 min (SSG(1)) or 2 min (SSG(2)), teams participated in a defensive role for these periods of time. Total distance covered, moderate speed running distance, high speed running distance, sprint running distance, accelerations, decelerations and Player Load were monitored using global positioning systems devices. The maximal heart rate and modified training impulse were monitored using heart rate monitors. The rating of perceived exertion (RPE) was also measured. Data showed a small increase between SSG(30) and SSG(1) in Player Load (ES = -0.35; p < 0.01), and a small increase in high speed running (ES = -0.41; p < 0.05) and sprinting (ES = -0.47; p < 0.01) between SSG(30) and SSG(2). Also, SSG(1) showed a small increase in sprinting (ES = -0.57; p < 0.01) and accelerations (ES = -0.37; p < 0.05) with respect to SSG(2). In addition, SSG(2) showed a small increase in the RPE with respect to SSG(30) (ES = 0.46; p < 0.05). The results indicate that shorter defensive periods in SSGs increased high speed running, while longer defensive periods promoted greater perceived exertion. Manipulation of the duration of defensive periods in SSGs is a variable that should be considered in soccer training.		[Rabano-Munoz, Alberto; Asian-Clemente, Jose A.] Real Betis Balompie, Performance Dept, Seville, Spain; [Suarez-Arrones, Luis; Asian-Clemente, Jose A.] Univ Pablo de Olavide, Dept Sport Sci, Seville, Spain; [Suarez-Arrones, Luis; Requena, Bernardo; Asian-Clemente, Jose A.] Football Sci Inst, Performance Dept, Granada, Spain; [Rabano-Munoz, Alberto] Real Betis Balompie, Performance Dept, Seville, Spain								12							Sport Sciences	WOS:001115586600013	48	Article; Article		
J	Berlanga, Luis A.; Lopez-Samanes, Alvaro; Martin-Lopez, Julio; de la Cruz, Ruben Martinez; Garces-Rimon, Marta; Roberts, Justin; Bertotti, Gabriele								Dietary Nitrate Ingestion Does Not Improve Neuromuscular Performance in Male Sport Climbers								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				87				47	57		10.5114/jhk/161812			2023	2023	Beetroot juice (BJ) is commonly used as an ergogenic aid in endurance and team sports, however, the effect of this supplement on climbing performance is barely studied. The purpose of the current study was to investigate the effect of acute BJ ingestion on neuromuscular and biochemical variables in amateur male sport climbers. Ten physically active sport climbers (28.8 +/- 3.7 years) underwent a battery of neuromuscular tests consisting of the half crimp test, the pull-up to failure test, the isometric handgrip strength test, the countermovement jump (CMJ) and the squat jump (SJ). Participants performed the neuromuscular test battery twice in a cross-over design separated by 10 days, 150 min after having consumed either 70-mL of BJ (6.4 mmol NO3-) or a 70-mL placebo (0.0034 mmol NO3-). In addition, nitrate (NO3-) and nitrite (NO2-) saliva concentrations were analysed, and a side effect questionnaire related to ingestion was administrated. No differences were reported in particular neuromuscular variables measured such as the CMJ (p = 0.960; ES = 0.03), the SJ (p = 0.581; ES = -0.25), isometric handgrip strength (dominant/non dominant) (p = 0.459-0.447; ES = 0.34-0.35), the pull-up failure test (p = 0.272; ES = 0.51) or the maximal isometric half crimp test (p = 0.521-0.824; ES = 0.10-0.28). Salivary NO3- and NO2- increased significantly post BJ supplementation compared to the placebo (p < 0.001), while no side effects associated to ingestion were reported (p = 0.330-1.000) between conditions (BJ/placebo ingestion). Acute dietary nitrate supplementation (70-mL) did not produce any statistically significant improvement in neuromuscular performance or side effects in amateur sport climbers.		[Berlanga, Luis A.] Ctr Estudios Univ Cardenal Spinola CEU, Phys Act & Sports, Seville, Spain; [Berlanga, Luis A.; Lopez-Samanes, Alvaro; Martin-Lopez, Julio; de la Cruz, Ruben Martinez; Bertotti, Gabriele] Univ Francisco Vitoria, Fac Hlth Sci, Exercise Physiol Grp, Madrid, Spain; Sputnik Climbing, Physiotherapy, Madrid, Spain; [Garces-Rimon, Marta] Univ Francisco Vitoria, Grp Invest Biotecnol Alimentaria, Madrid, Spain; [Roberts, Justin] Anglia Ruskin Univ, Cambridge Ctr Sport & Exercise Sci CCSES, Sch Psychol & Sport Sci, East Rd, Cambridge, England; [Berlanga, Luis A.] Ctr Estudios Univ Cardenal Spinola CEU, Phys Act & Sports, Seville, Spain; [Berlanga, Luis A.] Univ Francisco Vitoria, Fac Hlth Sci, Exercise Physiol Grp, Madrid, Spain								7							Sport Sciences	WOS:001115586600019	49	Article; Article		
J	Akba, Anna; Marsza, Wojciech; Brachman, Anna; Juras, Grzegorz								Influence of Target Width and Distance on Postural Adjustments in a Fencing Lunge								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				87				35	45		10.5114/jhk/161572			2023	2023	The aim of this study was to examine whether target width and target distance influence the planning phase of a fencing lunge (early and anticipatory postural adjustments) as well as the execution phase of a fencing lunge. Eight elite female fencers participated in the study. The displacement of the center of foot pressure, muscle activity of the tibialis anterior, and kinematics of center of mass were recorded using force plates. The results show that target width and distance have no effect on early and anticipatory postural adjustments as well as the acceleration and velocity of the center of mass at the moment of foot-off. However, a greater target distance was associated with a greater max center of mass acceleration and velocity, and larger target width resulted in a greater max center of mass acceleration during lunging (p < 0.05). We suppose that the effect of task parameters on preparing a fencing lunge may be mitigated due to the specific technique adopted by expert fencers and the ballistic nature of a fencing lunge.		[Akba, Anna; Marsza, Wojciech; Brachman, Anna; Juras, Grzegorz] Acad Phys Educ, Inst Sport Sci, Dept Human Motor Behav, Katowice, Poland; [Akba, Anna] Acad Phys Educ, Inst Sport Sci, Dept Human Motor Behav, Katowice, Poland								6							Sport Sciences	WOS:001115586600005	27	Article; Article		
J	Clark, Kenneth P.; Ryan, Laurence J.; Meng, Christopher R.; Stearne, David J.								Horizontal Foot Speed During Submaximal and Maximal Running								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				87				1	9		10.5114/jhk/159578			2023	2023	Horizontal foot speed is fundamental for running synchronization and stability, and may also be important for sprinting performance. In this investigation, we quantified the following during steady-speed running: (a) peak forward foot speed during the swing phase, (b) backward foot speed at touchdown, and (c) ground speed difference (GSD), i.e., the difference between forward running speed and backward foot speed at touchdown. We hypothesized that forward and backward foot speed would be significantly and positively correlated with top speed, and that GSD would be significantly and negatively correlated with top speed. Participants (20 male, 20 female) completed 40-m submaximal and maximal effort running trials, with kinematic data collected from 31-39 m. Across top speed trials, forward foot speed (r = 0.90, p < 0.001) and backward foot speed (r = 0.85, p < 0.001) were significantly and positively correlated with running speed. However, counter to expectations, GSD values slightly increased with top speed (r = 0.36, p = 0.027). These findings indicate that forward and backward foot speeds are important variables for sprinting performance, but faster runners may not necessarily exhibit lower GSD values at top speed.		[Clark, Kenneth P.; Meng, Christopher R.; Stearne, David J.] West Chester Univ, Dept Kinesiol, W Chester, PA 19383 USA; [Clark, Kenneth P.] West Chester Univ, Dept Kinesiol, W Chester, PA 19383 USA								6							Sport Sciences	WOS:001115586600015	25	Article; Article		
J	Macinskas, Eligijus; Stasiule, Loreta; Puzas, Kestutis; Stasiulis, Arvydas								Physiological Variables that Contribute to Aerobic Fitness in Boys during Early Adolescence in the Context of Basketball Training and the Maturity Level								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				86	1			145	154		10.5114/jhk/159627			2023	2023	The aim of this study was to assess physiological variables that contribute to aerobic fitness in respect to basketball training and the maturity level in adolescent boys. Our subjects were 28 basketball-trained and 22 control-group boys (average age: 11.83 +/- 0.43 years). An incremental treadmill running test to exhaustion was performed twice with a 1-year interval between the sessions to determine the following peak aerobic fitness variables: oxygen uptake, stroke volume, cardiac output, minute ventilation, and others. Maturity offset was used to evaluate the maturity level. The basketball-trained group exhibited a higher peak ratio-scaled oxygen uptake (1st session: 50.55 +/- 6.21 and 46.57 +/- 5.68 ml/kg/min in basketball and control-group boys, respectively, p = 0.024; 2nd session: 54.50 +/- 6.50 and 45.33 +/- 5.99 ml/kg/min, respectively, p < 0.001) during both testing sessions. During the 2nd session, the basketball-trained group also showed a significantly higher peak arteriovenous oxygen difference (basketball-trained boys: 14.02 +/- 2.17 ml/100 ml; control-group boys: 12.52 +/- 2.49 ml/100 ml; p = 0.027) and peak minute ventilation (basketball-trained boys: 96.08 +/- 21.71 l/min; control-group boys: 83.14 +/- 17.85 l/min; p = 0.028). The maturity level among the basketball-trained boys was correlated with peak variables: oxygen uptake, stroke volume, cardiac output, and minute ventilation, but not with the ratio-scaled oxygen uptake. In conclusion, basketball training at a young age among boys improved aerobic fitness compared with sedentary boys. More mature basketball players were not superior to their less mature peers regarding aerobic fitness after adjusting for body dimensions.		[Macinskas, Eligijus; Stasiule, Loreta; Puzas, Kestutis; Stasiulis, Arvydas] Lithuanian Sports Univ, Dept Hlth Promot & Rehabil, Kaunas, Lithuania; [Macinskas, Eligijus] Lithuanian Sports Univ, Dept Hlth Promot & Rehabil, Kaunas, Lithuania								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:001126121300013	32	Article; Article		
J	Pawlowski, Michal; Furmanektz, Mariusz P.; Bacik, Bogdan; Skowronek, Tomasz								The Impact of Fatigue on the Sense of Local and Global Rhythmic Movement								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				86	1			51	61		10.5114/jhk/159604			2023	2023	Efficient movement control and the mechanisms responsible for the sense of rhythm are still not fully understood. The purpose of this paper was to estimate the influence of fatigue on the sense of rhythm defined as specific order of movements and their rhythmic perception. It was examined in a holistic way, by analyzing both global and local aspects of the movement. Twenty adult participants (20.2 +/- 0.4 years, ten females) took part in the experiment. The fatigue protocol was applied in four blocks, which consisted of 30-s consecutive jumping with 80% of maximal effort. Immediately after each fatigue block, the rhythm performance was evaluated in global and local tests. The global test was based on 45 continuous jumps and was divided into an assisted and an unassisted phase using the Optojump Next System. The local test was performed by bilateral tapping of lower limbs by means of the Vienna Test System. The hypothesis about the significant effect of fatigue on the sense of rhythm was falsified. In particular, we observed the lack of differences between global and local aspects of the movement. Moreover, female participants showed a better sense of rhythm than males. Regardless of the fatigue protocol, participants made larger errors with a lower movement frequency in local rhythmic tasks. The coefficient of variation showed that sex differences were only significant in the unassisted phase of the global rhythmic task. We suggest that movement variability metrics may provide additional information about the sense of rhythm, which should be explored more in future studies, not only dependent on fatigue.		[Pawlowski, Michal; Furmanektz, Mariusz P.; Bacik, Bogdan; Skowronek, Tomasz] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ, Inst Sport Sci, Katowice, Poland; [Furmanektz, Mariusz P.] Univ Rhode Isl, Dept Phys Therapy, Kingston, RI 02881 USA; [Furmanektz, Mariusz P.] Northeastern Univ, Dept Phys Therapy Movement & Rehabil Sci, Boston, MA 02115 USA; [Pawlowski, Michal] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ, Inst Sport Sci, Katowice, Poland								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001126121300020	46	Article; Article		
J	Rebelo, Andre; Pereira, Joao R.; Martinho, Diogo, V; Valente-dos-Santos, Joao								Effects of a Velocity-Based Complex Training Program in Young Female Artistic Roller Skating Athletes								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				86	1			217	234		10.5114/jhk/159654			2023	2023	Complex training consists of a near maximal strength effort followed by a biomechanically similar explosive exercise. One of many complex training methods that have been proposed is the French Contrast Method. The aim of this study was to analyze the effects of the French Contrast Method on maximal strength and power of young female artistic roller skating athletes with the help of velocity-based training to prescribe the intervention program. Eighteen female artistic roller skating athletes, divided into an experimental group (EG) and a control group (CG), participated in this study. The EG performed complex training via the French Contrast Method. The CG did not perform any additional training besides their regular roller skating practices. All participants were tested on the 1-RM back squat and hip thrust, the load-velocity profile assessment of both exercises previously stated, the countermovement jump, and the drop jump. A significant increase in mean concentric velocity (MCV) of the hip thrust exercise from 10 to 60% of 1-RM in the EG was observed. Significant differences between groups were observed for the MCV of the hip thrust from 10 to 90% of 1-RM. There were also significant increases in the 1-RM back squat and 1-RM hip thrust over time in the EG. For the vertical jump variables, there were significant differences between groups for both contact time and the reactive strength index with and without an arm swing. The results of this study suggest that a 6-week training intervention with the use of the French Contrast Method can significantly improve maximal strength and power.		[Rebelo, Andre; Pereira, Joao R.; Martinho, Diogo, V; Valente-dos-Santos, Joao] Univ Lusofona, CIDEFES, Lisbon, Portugal; [Rebelo, Andre; Pereira, Joao R.; Valente-dos-Santos, Joao] Sporting Clube Portugal, Ctr Sports Optimizat, COD, Lisbon, Portugal; [Pereira, Joao R.; Martinho, Diogo, V; Valente-dos-Santos, Joao] Univ Coimbra, Res Unity Sport & Phys Act CIDAF, Fac Sport Sci & Phys Educ, UID DTP 04213-2020, Coimbra, Portugal; [Martinho, Diogo, V] Polytech Coimbra, Coimbra Hlth Sch, Dietet & Nutr, Coimbra, Portugal; [Rebelo, Andre] Univ Lusofona, CIDEFES, Lisbon, Portugal; [Rebelo, Andre] Sporting Clube Portugal, Ctr Sports Optimizat, COD, Lisbon, Portugal								16							Sport Sciences	WOS:001126121300016	48	Article; Article		
J	Jones, Sam; Nunome, Hiroyuki; Augustus, Simon; Peacock, James C. A.; Ball, Kevin; Bezodis, Neil E.								Understanding the effects of ball orientation in Rugby Union place kicking: the preferences of international kickers and the kinematics of the foot-ball impact								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	1			13	28		10.1080/14763141.2022.2159507			JAN 2 2025	2025	Rugby Union place kicking is influential to match outcome. Previous research has analysed kicker motion prior to ball contact in detail, but ball orientation and the impact phase are typically ignored. This study aims to firstly identify the ball orientations used by international place kickers, and secondly to experimentally analyse the foot-ball interaction in trained kickers using different ball orientations. Overall, 25.5% of the international kickers used an upright ball orientation, 27.5% used a diagonal orientation and 47.1% used a horizontal orientation. However, ball orientation preference was not significant in predicting kick outcome in a binomial logistic regression model. To address the second aim, ball orientation was experimentally manipulated and lower limb and ball kinematics were captured using high-speed (4000 Hz) video. Whilst the impact location on the ball differed significantly between most ball orientation conditions, the impact location relative to the global vertical was largely consistent across all conditions. This was likely due to kickers adopting very consistent lower limb kinematics, although the shank and ankle angles at impact were affected by ball orientation conditions for some kickers. Impact durations also differed between some conditions, although this did not appear to affect the impact efficiency.		[Jones, Sam; Bezodis, Neil E.] Swansea Univ, Appl Sports TechnolExercise & Med A STEM Res Ctr, Swansea, Wales; [Nunome, Hiroyuki] Fukuoka Univ, Fac Sports & Hlth Sci, Fukuoka, Japan; [Augustus, Simon] Kingston Univ, Dept Appl Human Sci, London, England; [Peacock, James C. A.; Ball, Kevin] Victoria Univ, Inst Hlth & Sport, Footscray, Australia; [Jones, Sam] Swansea Univ, Appl Sports TechnolExercise & Med A STEM Res Ctr, Swansea, Wales								1							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000904942700001	27	Article; Article		
J	Zhao, Chen; Jowett, Sophia								Before supporting athletes, evaluate your coach-athlete relationship: Exploring the link between coach leadership and coach-athlete relationship								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	3			633	641		10.1177/17479541221148113			JUN 2023	2023	The overall quality of coach-athlete relationship has been shown to positively associate with coach leadership effectiveness on athletes' outcomes. Nonetheless, others also showed no associations when each subdimension of coach-athlete relationship was separately examined. This study used canonical correlation analysis (CCA) to examine the complete set of correlations between coach transformational leadership (six dimensions) and quality coach-athlete relationship (six dimensions). A total of 213 athletes (122 male; 91 female) from various performance levels and sports completed a multi-section questionnaire. CCA revealed positive, negative and no correlations between the coach transformational leadership and coach-athlete relationship variable sets. For example, the Direct Commitment dimension of the coach-athlete relationship was negatively related to the Individualised Support dimension and positively associated with the High-Performance Expectation dimension of coach transformational leadership. In light of these results, we discuss whether viewing the coach-athlete relationship as an inherent dimension embedded within the conceptualisation of coach leadership is suitable and accurate.		[Zhao, Chen; Jowett, Sophia] Loughborough Univ, Sch Sport Exercise & Hlth Sci, Loughborough, England; [Zhao, Chen] Loughborough Univ, Sch Sport Exercise & Hlth Sci, Loughborough LE11 3TU, Leics, England; [Zhao, Chen] Loughborough Univ, Sch Sport Exercise & Hlth Sci, Loughborough LE11 3TU, Leics, England								28							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000904945100001	50	Article; Article		
J	He, Qixiang; Komar, John; Kee, Ying Hwa								Key considerations in the week-to-week forecasting of individual match actions in football								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	1			221	229		10.1177/17479541221147764			FEB 2024	2024	Short-term forecasting of performance in football is crucial in week-to-week decision making. The current study presented novel contributions regarding the considerations that should be accounted for in the prediction of match actions performed in competitive matches. First, the study examined whether the quantity and recency of training data used to build a prediction model significantly influenced predictive accuracy. Three prediction models were built with the exponential moving weighted average (EMWA) method, each differing in the quantity of training data used (three, five, and seven preceding match days). Next, the study examined if contextual constraints, such as type of match action being predicted, playing position, or player age, significantly influenced predictive accuracy. Match action data from players in the top five European leagues were collected from the 2014/2015 to the 2019/2020 seasons. The model trained using less but more recent data (three preceding match days) demonstrated the greatest accuracy. Next, within the offensive and defensive phases, match actions differed significantly in predictive accuracy. Lastly, significant differences were found in prediction accuracy between playing positions, whereby actions associated with the primary task of the playing position were more accurately predicted. These findings suggest that in the forecasting of individual match actions, practitioners should seek to train the prediction model using more recent data, instead of including as much data as possible. Furthermore, contextual constraints such as the type of action and playing position of the player must be keenly considered.		[He, Qixiang; Komar, John; Kee, Ying Hwa] Nanyang Technol Univ, Natl Inst Educ, 1 Nanyang Walk, Singapore 637616, Singapore; [Komar, John] Nanyang Technol Univ, Natl Inst Educ, 1 Nanyang Walk, Singapore 637616, Singapore								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000904943300001	30	Article; Article		
J	Maldoddi, Rakesh; Gella, Laxmi								Eye injuries in badminton - players' perspective toward the usage of personal protective equipment								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				52	1			46	51		10.1080/00913847.2022.2159564			JAN 2 2024	2024	ObjectiveWe conducted a survey between April to September 2021 to understand the perspective of badminton players on the usage of personal protective equipment to avoid eye injuries.MethodsThe survey was conducted online. It was disseminated through various social media platforms and via e-mail. The survey was initially shared with university-level badminton players. Both recreational and professional players were included. They were further encouraged to circulate the survey questionnaire among their colleagues.ResultsIn total, the survey received 372 responses. After removing possible duplicates and incomplete responses (n = 28), 92.5% (n = 344) of the responses were included in the final analysis. Among the 344 included responses, recreational and professional players accounted for 77.6% (n = 267) and 22.4% (n = 77), respectively. The mean age +/- SD of the recreational and professional players were 24.1 +/- 6.3 years (range 14-60 years) and 25.7 +/- 6.0 years (range 14-61 years), respectively. A significant difference was noted for self-reported eye injuries between recreational and professional players while playing badminton (chi(2) value = 5.321, p = 0.02). Among the recreational and professional players, 93.6% (n = 250) and 88.3% (n = 68) did not use protective eyewear while playing badminton. Professional players were at higher risk of eye injuries than recreational players (OR = 2.9, 95% CI = 1.1-7.8).ConclusionThe majority of badminton players in both groups agreed that PPE usage would lower the risk of sustaining eye injuries; however, they are ambiguous about the usage of protective eyewear. In contrast, players with self-reported eye injuries were aware of its impacts and encouraged the usage of PPEs associated with badminton. Further studies are warranted to understand and educate badminton players about the causes and impacts of eye injuries in badminton.		[Maldoddi, Rakesh; Gella, Laxmi] Univ Hyderabad, Sch Med Sci, Hyderabad, India; [Gella, Laxmi] Univ Hyderabad, Sch Med Sci, Dept Optometry & Vis Sci, Hyderabad 500046, India; [Gella, Laxmi] Univ Hyderabad, Sch Med Sci, Dept Optometry & Vis Sci, Hyderabad 500046, India								3							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000904703800001	31	Article; Article		
J	Bercades, Luigi T.; Oldham, Anthony R. H.; Lorimer, Anna; Lenetsky, Seth; Millar, Sarah Kate; Sheerin, Kelly								Experiential knowledge of expert coaches on the critical performance factors of the taekwondo roundhouse kick								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	3			668	686		10.1177/17479541221144120			JUN 2023	2023	The primary aim of this study was to capture expert taekwondo coaches' experiential knowledge regarding critical factors that underpin the roundhouse kick. The secondary aim was to explore the coaching-biomechanics interface and translate the coaches' knowledge into observable biomechanical variables for future investigation. The final aim was to elicit further expert knowledge to assess the usefulness of the resulting variables. Six higher themes emerged from interviews involving four coaches: (1) hip flexibility, (2) balance, (3) control/coordination, (4) distance, (5) footwork and (6) speed. These were supported by several sub-themes. The authors translated each theme and sub-themes into biomechanical variables: (1) front knee height, (2) support foot balance, (3) foot velocity, (4) interpersonal distance and (5) cut-kick transition speed. Two separate expert coaches appraised these variables in terms of understanding, importance, coachability and differences in expertise. In attempting to translate expert knowledge to biomechanical variables, we supported the need for a common conceptualisation of knowledge between scientists and coaches.		[Bercades, Luigi T.; Oldham, Anthony R. H.; Lorimer, Anna; Lenetsky, Seth; Millar, Sarah Kate; Sheerin, Kelly] Auckland Univ Technol, Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand, Auckland 1010, New Zealand; [Lorimer, Anna] Bond Univ, Fac Hlth Sci & Med, Gold Coast, Australia; [Lenetsky, Seth] Canadian Sport Inst Pacific, Victoria, BC, Canada; [Millar, Sarah Kate] Univ Canterbury, Fac Hlth, Christchurch, New Zealand; [Bercades, Luigi T.] Auckland Univ Technol, Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand, Auckland 1010, New Zealand								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000904931600001	72	Article; Article		
J	Turner, Mitchell; Beranek, Philipp; Sahrom, Sofyan; Lo, Johnny; Ferrauti, Alexander; Dunican, Ian C.; Cruickshank, Travis								The impact of sleep behaviours, chronotype and time of match on the internal and external outcomes of a tennis match								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	6			2099	2107		10.1177/17479541221130443			DEC 2023	2023	Tennis match performance is often evaluated by a player's internal (heart rate) and external (match analytics) outcomes. Numerous factors could influence these outcomes, including the time of day, which may be advantageous or not depending on a player's chronotype. This study aimed to determine the influence time of day, chronotype and sleep-wake behaviour (SWB) had on internal and external outcomes of tennis matches. Twelve state-level male tennis players, with a mean age of 28 +/- 7, stature of 183 +/- 7 and body mass of 86.6 +/- 17.4 wore an actigraph device and completed a sleep diary for the study duration. Based on rankings, players were paired against the same opponent and completed three tennis matches at 8:00 am, 2:00 pm and 8:00 pm, separated by a minimum of 48 h. Fatigue and chronotype, measured by the Fatigue Severity Scale, Morningness Eveningness Questionnaire and midsleep time, were assessed before matches; motivation, measured by the Intrinsic Motivation Inventory, was assessed after matches. During matches, players wore global positioning systems and heart rate monitors; the match analytics and players' rate of perceived exertion were recorded. Increased unforced errors and decreased winners and forced errors were observed in the evening matches. Decreased total distance and rate of perceived exertion during the second set were found for the evening compared to morning and afternoon matches. Chronotype and sleep-wake behaviour had trivial to weak associations with internal and external outcomes. These results indicate that players and coaches should consider the match times when training for future tournaments.		[Turner, Mitchell; Beranek, Philipp; Sahrom, Sofyan; Dunican, Ian C.; Cruickshank, Travis] Edith Cowan Univ, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, Perth, Australia; [Turner, Mitchell; Beranek, Philipp; Cruickshank, Travis] Edith Cowan Univ, Ctr Precis Hlth, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, Perth, Australia; [Sahrom, Sofyan] Natl Youth Sports Inst, Sports Sci Dept, Singapore, Singapore; [Lo, Johnny] Edith Cowan Univ, Sch Sci, Perth, Australia; [Ferrauti, Alexander] Ruhr Univ Bochum, Fac Sport Sci, Bochum, Germany; [Dunican, Ian C.] Univ Western Australia, Ctr Sleep Sci, Sch Human Sci, Perth, WA, Australia; [Cruickshank, Travis] Perron Inst Neurol & Translat Sci, Perth, Australia; [Turner, Mitchell] Edith Cowan Univ, 270 Joondalup Dr, Perth, WA 6027, Australia; [Turner, Mitchell] Edith Cowan Univ, 270 Joondalup Dr, Perth, WA 6027, Australia								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000903749200001	59	Article; Article		
J	Broman, Daniel; Piussi, Ramana; Thomee, Roland; Senorski, Eric Hamrin								A clinician-friendly test battery with a passing rate similar to a ?gold standard? return-to-sport test battery 1 year after ACL reconstruction: Results from a rehabilitation outcome registry								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				59				144	150		10.1016/j.ptsp.2022.12.009			JAN 2023	2023	Objectives: To 1) present passing rates for different clinician-friendly (CF) test batteries and 2) determine the relationship between passing CF test batteries and passing gold standard (GS) return-to-sport (RTS) muscle function testing, 1 year after ACL reconstruction.Study design: Cross-sectional registry study, level of evidence: 3.Setting: Primary care.Participants: Data from 588 patients (52% women, mean age 29.3 +/- 9.8 years) were extracted from the Project ACL registry.Main outcome measures: The passing rates for the different test batteries.Results: The passing rate for GS test battery was 28% (95% CI, 24-32%) and the passing rate for the CF test battery with the lowest passing rate was 27% (95% CI 24-31%). The two CF test batteries with the strongest relationships with passing GS test battery showed that 51% (95% CI 43-59%) and 49% (95% CI 44-55%) of the patients who passed the respective CF test battery also passed the GS test battery.Conclusion: A CF test battery can be as demanding to pass as a GS test battery, 1 year after ACL reconstruction. However, passing a CF test battery only gives patients a chance similar to a "coin flip" of also passing a GS RTS test battery.(c) 2022 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).		[Broman, Daniel; Piussi, Ramana; Thomee, Roland; Senorski, Eric Hamrin] Sportrehab Sports Med Clin, Stampgatan 14, S-41101 Gothenburg, Sweden; [Piussi, Ramana; Thomee, Roland; Senorski, Eric Hamrin] Univ Gothenburg, Inst Neurosci & Physiol, Sahlgrenska Acad, Dept Hlth & Rehabil, Box 455, SE-40530 Gothenburg, Sweden; [Piussi, Ramana; Senorski, Eric Hamrin] Sahlgrens Acad, Sahlgrenska Sports Med Ctr, Gothenburg, Sweden; [Senorski, Eric Hamrin] Swedish Olymp Comm, Stockholm, Sweden; [Senorski, Eric Hamrin] Sportrehab Sports Med Clin, Stampgatan 14, S-41101 Gothenburg, Sweden								15							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000914750900001	25	Article; Article		
J	Corrigan, John; O'Keeffe, Sinead; O'Connor, Siobhan								Barriers and facilitators to injury prevention in ladies Gaelic football: A qualitative study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				59				151	161		10.1016/j.ptsp.2022.12.008			JAN 2023	2023	Objectives: Injury rates have remained high in ladies Gaelic football over the last decade and treatment costs continue to increase significantly. Injury prevention programmes are a proposed solution and their efficacy has been demonstrated in Gaelic games, however, anecdotally their adoption is low. The aim of this study was to determine the barriers and facilitators to uptake, implementation, and long-term adoption of an injury prevention strategy for adult Ladies Gaelic football players and coaches. Design: Semi-structured interviews were conducted with 23 participants (13 coaches, 10 players). Four coaches were at intercounty level and nine were at club level, while two players competed at intercounty and club level and eight played solely at club level. The interviews were audio-recorded, transcribed verbatim and thematically analysed. Results: Stakeholder attitudes, accessibility, education, communication, and injury prevention programme characteristics were perceived as key barriers to an injury prevention strategy succeeding. Injury prevention promotion, injury prevention programme characteristics, leadership, and communication, were identified as the main factors that would facilitate the success of a strategy. Conclusions: By utilising the views of stakeholders, the initial uptake, adherence, and long-term adoption of an injury prevention strategy in Ladies Gaelic football may be maximised. (c) 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Corrigan, John; O'Keeffe, Sinead; O'Connor, Siobhan] Dublin City Univ, Ctr Injury Prevent & Performance, Sch Hlth & Human Performance, Dublin, Ireland; [Corrigan, John] Dublin City Univ, XB30, Glasnevin Campus,Lonsdale Bldg,Collins Ave Extens,, Dublin, Ireland; [Corrigan, John] Dublin City Univ, XB30, Glasnevin Campus,Lonsdale Bldg,Collins Ave Extens,, Dublin, Ireland								15							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000912085800001	68	Article; Article		
J	Zeff, Samuel; Weir, Gillian; Pataky, Todd C. C.; Hamill, Joseph; van Emmerik, Richard								Modifications to head-trunk coordination dynamics during running and sidestepping								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	3			742	762		10.1080/14763141.2022.2153299			MAR 4 2025	2025	The purpose of this study was to determine how the intrinsic head-trunk coordination dynamics that exist during forward running are modified during a dynamic sidestepping task. Fourteen athletes performed both forward running and sidestepping tasks. Head-trunk coordination and range of motion were assessed during the flight and stance phases in the transverse and sagittal planes. The sidestepping task resulted in greater in-phase head-trunk coordination during stance in the transverse plane (p < .001, ES = -1.71) and in reduced anti-phase coordination between head and trunk in the sagittal plane (p < .001, ES = 1.52). Statistical non-parametric mapping revealed that during sidestepping the sagittal plane coupling angle shifted away from anti-phase earlier during midstance. The sidestepping task resulted in greater transverse and sagittal plane head and trunk range of motion and greater vertical trunk centre of mass displacement. Sidestepping modified the intrinsic coordination dynamics that are present during forward running, with greater transverse plane head contributions and reductions in compensatory sagittal plane head motion, which may occur during the transition from weight acceptance to propulsion during the stance phase. These changes in the intrinsic coordination dynamics of the upper body during sidestepping tasks may impact visual perception and readiness compared to forward running during complex sports tasks.		[Zeff, Samuel; Weir, Gillian; Hamill, Joseph; van Emmerik, Richard] Univ Massachusetts, Dept Kinesiol, Amherst, MA 01003 USA; [Pataky, Todd C. C.] Kyoto Univ, Grad Sch Med, Dept Human Hlth Sci, Kyoto, Japan; [Zeff, Samuel] Univ Massachusetts, Dept Kinesiol, Amherst, MA 01003 USA								3							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000899795800001	56	Article; Article		
J	So, Billy Chun Lung; Lau, Stan Cheuk Ting; Kwok, Wan Yu; Tse, Daniel Hon Ting; Man, Siu Shing								Investigating The Association Between Supraspinatus Tendon Abnormality, Shoulder Pain and Isokinetic Strength in Elite Swimmers: A Cross-Sectional Study								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				22	1			17	27		10.52082/jssm.2023.17			MAR 2023	2023	Shoulder pain is common among elite swimmers due to the tre-mendous stress over shoulders during swimming. Supraspinatus muscle is one of the major prime movers and stabilizers of shoul-der and is highly susceptible to overloading and tendinopathy. An understanding of the relationship between supraspinatus tendon and pain; and between supraspinatus tendon and strength would assist health care practitioners for developing training regime. The objectives of this study are to evaluate 1) the association be-tween structural abnormality of supraspinatus tendon and shoul-der pain and 2) the association between structural abnormality of supraspinatus tendon and shoulder strength. We hypothesized that structural abnormality of supraspinatus tendons positively as-sociated with shoulder pain and negatively associated with shoul-der muscle strength among elite swimmers. 44 elite swimmers were recruited from the Hong Kong China Swimming Associa-tion. Supraspinatus tendon condition was evaluated using diag-nostic ultrasound imaging and shoulder internal and external ro-tation strength was evaluated by the isokinetic dynamometer. Pearson's R was used to study the correlation between shoulder pain and supraspinatus tendon condition and to evaluate the asso-ciation between isokinetic strength of shoulders and supraspina-tus tendon condition. 82 shoulders had supraspinatus tendinopa-thy or tendon tear (93.18%). However, there was no statistically significant association between structural abnormality of suprasp-inatus tendon and shoulder pain. The results showed that there was no association between supraspinatus tendon abnormality and shoulder pain and there was a significant correlation between left maximal supraspinatus tendon thickness (LMSTT) and left external rotation/ concentric (LER/Con) and left external rotation/ eccentric (LER/Ecc) shoulder strength (p < 0.05) while internal rotation/ external rotation (IR/ER) ratio can also be a significant predicator on LMSTT >6mm (R2 = 0.462, F = 7.016, df = 1, p = 0.038). Structural change of supraspinatus tendon was not associ-ated with shoulder pain, but could be a predictor on MSTT >6mm in elite swimmers.		[So, Billy Chun Lung; Lau, Stan Cheuk Ting; Kwok, Wan Yu; Tse, Daniel Hon Ting; Man, Siu Shing] Hong Kong Polytech Univ, Dept Rehabil Sci, Gait & Mot Anal Lab, Hung Hom, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [So, Billy Chun Lung] Hong Kong Polytech Univ, Res Inst Sports Sci & Technol, Hung Hom, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [So, Billy Chun Lung] Hong Kong Polytech Univ, Dept Rehabil Sci, Hung Hom, Kowloon, ST506,Ng Wing Hong Bldg, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [So, Billy Chun Lung] Hong Kong Polytech Univ, Dept Rehabil Sci, Hung Hom, Kowloon, ST506,Ng Wing Hong Bldg, Hong Kong, Peoples R China								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:000913555400001	53	Article; Article		
J	Hebert-Losier, Kim; Boswell-Smith, Caleb; Hanzlikova, Ivana								Effect of an overhead goal on landing error scoring system and jump height measures								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				59				115	121		10.1016/j.ptsp.2022.11.005			JAN 2023	2023	Objectives: Compare overall Landing Error Scoring System (LESS) scores, risk categorisation, specific LESS errors, and double-leg jump-landing jump heights between overhead goal and no goal conditions. Design: Randomised cross-over. Setting: Laboratory. Participants: 76 (51% male). Main outcome measures: Participants landed from a 30-cm box to 50% of their body height and imme-diately jumped vertically for maximum height. Participants completed three trials under two random -ordered conditions: with and without overhead goal. Group-level mean LESS scores, risk catego-risation (5-error threshold), specific landing errors, and jump heights were compared between conditions. Results: Mean LESS scores were greater (0.3 errors, p < 0.001) with the overhead goal, but this small difference was not clinically meaningful. Similarly, although the number of high-risk participants was greater with the overhead goal (p 1/4 0.039), the 9.2% difference was trivial. Participants jumped 2.7 cm higher with the overhead goal (p < 0.001) without affecting the occurrence of any specific LESS errors. Discussion: Performing the LESS with an overhead goal enhances sport specificity and elicits greater vertical jump performances with minimal change in landing errors and injury-risk categorisation. Adding an overhead goal to LESS might enhance its suitability for injury risk screening, although the predictive value of LESS with an overhead goal needs confirmation. (c) 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Hebert-Losier, Kim; Boswell-Smith, Caleb] Univ Waikato, Adams Ctr High Performance, Te Huataki Waiora Sch Hlth, Div Hlth Engn Comp & Sci, 52 Miro St, Tauranga 3116, New Zealand; [Hanzlikova, Ivana] Palacky Univ Olomouc, Fac Phys Culture, Dept Physiotherapy, Trida Miru 177, Olomouc 77111, Czech Republic; [Hebert-Losier, Kim] Univ Waikato, Adams Ctr High Performance, Te Huataki Waiora Sch Hlth, Div Hlth Engn Comp & Sci, 52 Miro St, Tauranga 3116, New Zealand								1							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000905987100001	48	Article; Article		
J	Tsukahara, Yuka; Novak, Melissa; Takei, Seira; Asif, Irfan M.; Yamasawa, Fumihiro; Torii, Suguru; Akama, Takao; Matsumoto, Hideo; Day, Carly								An international study on attitudes and opinions regarding female sports medicine physicians during pregnancy and the postpartum period								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				51	6			603	609		10.1080/00913847.2022.2154624			NOV 2 2023	2023	ObjectivesSupporting female sports medicine physicians to simultaneously be mothers and pursue professional careers is crucial to maintain gender diversity in sports medicine physicians. The purpose of this study is to understand the attitudes toward female sports medicine physicians during pregnancy and postpartum.MethodsAn anonymous online survey was distributed to sports medicine physicians practicing in 51 different countries. They were asked how comfortable they felt with female sports medicine physicians working on the sidelines of sporting events during pregnancy, if the female sports medicine physicians were as productive as their male counterparts after giving birth, and how satisfied they were with the percentage of female sports medicine physicians in their country. Data were analyzed using the chi-square test, and multivariate logistic regression analysis was performed to identify independent variables.ResultsIn total, 1193 physicians (380 [31.9%] female) were included for analysis. Physicians in Asia were the least comfortable with pregnant sports medicine physicians working on the sidelines and those in North America were the most comfortable (odds ratio = 0.28 and 2.51, 95% confidence interval 0.18-0.44 and 1.55-4.06, respectively). More experienced sports medicine physicians (odds ratio = 1.01, 95% confidence interval 1.00-1.03; p < 0.05) and divorced physicians (odds ratio = 0.33, 95% confidence interval 0.12-0.91; p < 0.05) were less comfortable with pregnant female sports medicine physicians working on sidelines, and those trained in orthopedics were less likely to agree that female sports medicine physicians were equally as productive as male counterparts postpartum (odds ratio = 0.29, 95% confidence interval 0.10-0.88; p < 0.05). Female physicians were less satisfied with the percentage of female sports medicine physicians in their country (odds ratio = 0.41, 95% confidence interval 0.27-0.60; p < 0.01) than their male counterparts.ConclusionsFemale sports medicine physicians may experience bias in their practice during pregnancy and postpartum.		[Tsukahara, Yuka] Waseda Univ, Waseda Inst Sport Sci, Tokorozawa, Japan; [Tsukahara, Yuka] Tokyo Womens Coll Phys Educ, Fac Phys Educ, Tokyo, Japan; [Novak, Melissa] Oregon Hlth & Sci Univ, Dept Family Med, Portland, OR USA; [Takei, Seira] Waseda Univ, Waseda Inst Human Growth & Dev, Tokorozawa, Japan; [Asif, Irfan M.] Univ Alabama Birmingham, Dept Family & Community Med, Birmingham Sch Med, Birmingham, AL USA; [Yamasawa, Fumihiro] Marubeni Hlth Promot Ctr, Tokyo, Japan; [Torii, Suguru; Akama, Takao] Waseda Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Tokorozawa, Japan; [Matsumoto, Hideo] Japan Sports Med Fdn, Publ Interest Inc Fdn, Tokyo, Japan; [Day, Carly] Purdue Univ, Dept Hlth & Kinesiol, W Lafayette, IN USA; [Day, Carly] Franciscan Phys Network, W Lafayette, IN USA; [Tsukahara, Yuka] Tokyo Womens Coll Phys Educ, Fac Phys Educ, Tokyo, Japan								5							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000893838600001	34	Article; Article		
J	Urbaczka, J.; Silvernail, J. F.; Jandacka, D.								The effect of fatigue on the ankle and knee kinematics and kinetics in moderately and highly trained healthy non-rearfoot runners								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	3			708	722		10.1080/14763141.2022.2146909			MAR 4 2025	2025	The aim of this study was to compare selected ankle and knee kinematic and kinetic parameters before and after a prolonged exhaustive treadmill run between two groups of non-rearfoot footstrike pattern (NRFP) runners with different training volumes. Twenty-eight habitual NRFP runners were assigned to two groups based on their weekly training volume (Highly-trained (HT)/Moderately-trained (MT)). Participants underwent the VO2max test, and the exhaustive treadmill ran with biomechanical analysis at the beginning and the end. The two-way RMANOVA was used to assess differences between the groups and the phase of the run. A paired t-test was used for post-hoc analysis in case of significant interaction effect. Kinetic results showed significant group effect for ankle plantarflexion moment and hip external rotation moment (end-phase: both greater in MT group). Kinematic results showed significant groupxphase interaction for ankle dorsiflexion angle (end-phase: greater in MT group) at initial contact (IC), peak knee flexion angle (end-phase: greater in MT group), and peak ankle eversion angle during the stance phase (end-phase: greater in HT group). Additionally, a group effect was found for knee flexion angle at IC (end-phase: greater in HT group). This study suggests that HT healthy NRFP runners may have less potential for increased biomechanical risk of AT overload during an exhaustive run.		[Urbaczka, J.; Jandacka, D.] Univ Ostrava, Dept Human Movement Studies, Ostrava, Czech Republic; [Silvernail, J. F.] Univ Nevada, Dept Kinesiol & Nutr Sci, Las Vegas, NV USA; [Urbaczka, J.] Univ Ostrava, Dept Human Movement Studies, Ostrava, Czech Republic								5							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000912180800001	56	Article; Article		
J	Cormier, Tom								Exercise Programming for Polycystic Ovary Syndrome								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				44	6			2	8		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000687			DEC 2022	2022	Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is a common endocrine disorder affecting 20% of women of reproductive age and is associated with insulin resistance, infertility, and cardiovascular disease. Weight loss and exercise improve the prognosis of PCOS and its comorbidities. Exercise programming and assessments are highly individualized because of the characteristic variations of the syndrome.		[Cormier, Tom] Setanta Coll, Thurles, Ireland; [Cormier, Tom] Setanta Coll, Thurles, Ireland								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:000915255100002	49	Article; Article		
J	Batrakoulis, Alexios; Jamurtas, Athanasios Z.; Fatouros, Ioannis G.								Exercise and Type II Diabetes Mellitus: A Brief Guide for Exercise Professionals								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				44	6			64	72		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000731			DEC 2022	2022	Exercise is an effective tool for managing and treating type II diabetes (T2DM) and may be a useful component of a diabetes management program. Both short- or long-term exercise interventions can improve physical fitness, metabolic health, and cardiovascular function in individuals with poor glycemic control. Incorporating aerobic and resistance exercise as part of a comprehensive diabetes management plan can play a vital role in the fight against this chronic metabolic disease. Progression and individualized exercise programming are critical for an effective and enjoyable exercise experience in a gym setting. With respect to safety, exercise professionals should be aware of special considerations and potential complications persons with T2DM can experience when exercising.		[Batrakoulis, Alexios; Jamurtas, Athanasios Z.; Fatouros, Ioannis G.] Univ Thessaly, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Trikala, Greece; [Batrakoulis, Alexios] Univ Thessaly, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Trikala, Greece								31							Sport Sciences	WOS:000915255100008	69	Article; Article		
J	Hanney, William J. J.; Kolber, Morey J. J.; Salamh, Paul A. A.; Bucci, Marino J. J.; Cundiff, Megan B. B.; Haynes, Dominick P. P.								Development of an Effective Client-Practitioner Therapeutic Alliance in the Management of Low Back Pain								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				44	6			9	17		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000698			DEC 2022	2022	Low back pain (LBP) is a significant problem in industrialized society with a considerable economic impact. There are many treatment approaches for LBP; however, many are expensive and possess questionable efficacy. An often-overlooked aspect of care for individuals with LBP is establishment of a positive therapeutic alliance. The therapeutic alliance essentially describes the relationship between the patient or client and practitioner that embodies trust, empathy, and mutual respect. Evidence suggests that when a positive therapeutic alliance exists, outcomes are improved. Unfortunately, practitioners are rarely instructed in how to specifically develop a positive therapeutic alliance. This article intends to highlight the overarching elements of establishing a therapeutic alliance for LBP management.		[Hanney, William J. J.; Bucci, Marino J. J.; Cundiff, Megan B. B.; Haynes, Dominick P. P.] Univ Cent Florida, Coll Hlth Profess & Sci, Sch Kinesiol & Phys Therapy, Orlando, FL 32816 USA; [Kolber, Morey J. J.] Nova Southeastern Univ, Coll Hlth Care Sci, Dept Phys Therapy, Ft Lauderdale, FL USA; [Salamh, Paul A. A.] Univ Indianapolis, Coll Hlth Sci, Krannert Sch Phys Therapy, Indianapolis, IN USA; [Hanney, William J. J.] Univ Cent Florida, Coll Hlth Profess & Sci, Sch Kinesiol & Phys Therapy, Orlando, FL 32816 USA								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:000915255100003	46	Article; Article		
J	Russ, Brian S.								Anemia: Considerations for the Athletic Population								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				44	6			47	57		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000712			DEC 2022	2022	Anemia is a condition characterized by too few red blood cells, leading to diminished oxygen delivery, which can significantly impact exercise participation and athletic performance. The etiology of anemia is multifactorial. Some forms of anemia develop as a result of deficiencies in specific vitamins and minerals and may be modifiable, whereas other types are inherited disorders. Although nonmodifiable, the latter may be managed with the assistance of trained medical professionals. This article will provide an overview of the pathophysiology associated with common forms of anemia and provide an introduction to diagnostic testing procedures and treatment options. Additionally, the signs and symptoms will be discussed to help strength and conditioning professionals recognize this potentially impactful condition. This article concludes with a discussion of the influence iron deficiency has on sports participation.		[Russ, Brian S.] Nova Southeastern Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Ft Lauderdale, FL 33314 USA; [Russ, Brian S.] Nova Southeastern Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Ft Lauderdale, FL 33314 USA								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:000915255100006	90	Article; Article		
J	Charbonnet, Bryan; Sieghartsleitner, Roland; Schmid, Jurg; Zuber, Claudia; Zibung, Marc; Conzelmann, Achim								Maturity-based correction mechanism for talent identification: When is it needed, does it work, and does it help to better predict who will make it to the pros?								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				21	4			640	657		10.52082/jssm.2022.639			DEC 2022	2022	When identifying talent, the confounding influence of maturity status on motor performances is an acknowledged problem. To solve this problem, correction mechanisms have been proposed to transform maturity-biased test scores into maturity-unbiased ones. Whether or not such corrections also improve predictive va-lidity remains unclear. To address this question, we calculated correlations between maturity indicators and motor performance variables among a sample of 121 fifteen-year-old elite youth foot-ball players in Switzerland. We corrected motor performance scores identified as maturity-biased, and we assessed correction procedure efficacy. Subsequently, we examined whether cor-rected scores better predicted levels of performance achievement 6 years after data collection (47 professionals vs. 74 non-profes-sional players) compared with raw scores using point biserial cor-relations, binary logistic regression models, and DeLong tests. Expectedly, maturity indicators correlated with raw scores (0.16 <= | r | <= 0.72; ps < 0.05), yet not with corrected scores. Con-trary to expectations, corrected scores were not associated with an additional predictive benefit (univariate: no significant r- change; multivariate: 0.02 <= Delta AUC <= 0.03,ps > 0.05). We do not interpret raw and corrected score equivalent predictions as a sign of correction mechanism futility (more work for the same output); rather we view them as an invitation to take corrected scores se-riously into account (same output, one fewer problem) and to re-vise correction-related expectations according to initial predictive validity of motor variables, validity of maturity indicators, initial maturity-bias, and selection systems. Recommending maturity-based corrections is legitimate, yet currently based on theoretical rather than empirical (predictive) arguments.		[Charbonnet, Bryan; Sieghartsleitner, Roland; Schmid, Jurg; Zuber, Claudia; Zibung, Marc; Conzelmann, Achim] Univ Bern, Inst Sport Sci, Bern, Switzerland; [Charbonnet, Bryan] Univ Bern, Inst Sport Sci, Bremgartenstr 145, CH-3012 Bern, Switzerland; [Charbonnet, Bryan] Univ Bern, Inst Sport Sci, Bremgartenstr 145, CH-3012 Bern, Switzerland								7							Sport Sciences	WOS:000894710100001	142	Article; Article		
J	Takeuchi, Kosuke; Nakamura, Masatoshi; Matsuo, Shingo; Akizuki, Kazunori; Mizuno, Takamasa								Effects of Speed and Amplitude of Dynamic Stretching on the Flexibility and Strength of the Hamstrings								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				21	4			608	615		10.52082/jssm.2022.608			DEC 2022	2022	Dynamic stretching for more than 90 seconds is useful for improving muscle strength, although dynamic stretching for 30 seconds or less is commonly used in sports settings. The effects of dynamic stretching are influenced by the speed and amplitude of stretching, but no study examined these factors for 30 seconds of dynamic stretching. Therefore, the purpose of the present study was to examine the effects of speed (fast-or slow-speed) and amplitude (normal-or wide amplitude) of dynamic stretching for 30 seconds on the strength (peak torque during maximum isokinetic concentric contraction) and flexibility (range of motion, passive torque at maximum knee extension angle, and muscle-tendon unit stiffness) of the hamstrings. The passive torque and muscle -tendon unit stiffness reflect stretching tolerance and viscoelastic properties of the hamstrings, respectively. Fifteen healthy participants performed 4 types of 30 seconds of dynamic stretching. The muscle strength and flexibility were measured before and immediately after the dynamic stretching. The range of motion did not change after dynamic stretching at low speed and normal amplitude (p = 0.12, d = 0.59, 103.3%), but it was increased by other interventions (p < 0.01, d = 0.90 -1.25, 104.5 -110.1%). In all interventions, the passive torque increased (main effect for time, p < 0.01, d = 0.51 - 0.74, 111.0 - 126.9%), and muscle-tendon unit stiffness did not change. The muscle strength increased only after dynamic stretching at fast speed with normal amplitude (p < 0.01, d = 0.79, 107.1%). The results of the present study indicated that 30 seconds of dynamic stretching at fast speed and with normal amplitude can be beneficial for the measured parameters.		[Takeuchi, Kosuke] Kobe Int Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Fac Rehabil, Kobe, Hyogo, Japan; [Nakamura, Masatoshi] Nishi Kyushu Univ, Fac Rehabil Sci, Kanzaki, Saga, Japan; [Matsuo, Shingo] Nihon Fukushi Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Rehabil, Handa, Aichi, Japan; [Akizuki, Kazunori] Mejiro Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Saitama, Saitama, Japan; [Mizuno, Takamasa] Nagoya Univ, Res Ctr Hlth Phys Fitness & Sports, Nagoya, Aichi, Japan; [Takeuchi, Kosuke] Kobe Int Univ, Fac Rehabil, 9-1-6 Koyocho Naka,Higashinada Ku, Kobe, Hyogo 6580032, Japan; [Takeuchi, Kosuke] Kobe Int Univ, Fac Rehabil, 9-1-6 Koyocho Naka,Higashinada Ku, Kobe, Hyogo 6580032, Japan								11							Sport Sciences	WOS:000889673700001	44	Article; Article		
J	Huang, Wen-Ching; Chiu, Pei Chi; Ho, Chi Hong								The Sprint-Interval Exercise Using a Spinning Bike Improves Physical Fitness and Ameliorates Primary Dysmenorrhea Symptoms Through Hormone and Inflammation Modulations: A Randomized Controlled Trial								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				21	4			595	607		10.52082/jssm.2022.595			DEC 2022	2022	Dysmenorrhea with high prevalence has been categorized as pri-mary dysmenorrhea (PD) and secondary dysmenorrhea due to differences in pathogenesis. A significant number of reproductive females suffering from monthly menstruation have to deal with negative impacts on their quality of life, work/study productivity, activities, and social relationships. In addition to medical treat-ment, exercise has been recognized as a complementary and al-ternative strategy for disease prevention, alleviation, and rehabil-itation. This study aimed to investigate the potential effects of ex-ercise on the severity of primary dysmenorrhea, physiological modulation, and physical fitness. Participants consisted of univer-sity students who were enrolled in the study and divided into a non-PD (Control) and a PD group based on recruiting criteria, the latter being randomly assigned to either an untreated dysmenor-rhea group or a dysmenorrhea group that underwent 10 weeks of high intensity interval training (HIIT) exercise (Dysmen and Dys-menHIIT, respectively). The DysmenHIIT group used spinning bikes and the training intensity was validated by heart rate moni-tors and BORG rating of perceived exertion. Forms containing participant information (premenstrual symptoms, menstrual dis-tress, and a Short Form McGill Pain Questionnaire) as well as physical fitness, biochemical variables, hormone and prostaglan-din (PGE2 and PGF2 alpha) levels were assessed before and after the exercise intervention. After intervention, premenstrual symptoms (anger, anxiety, depression, activity level, fatigue, etc.), men-strual distress symptoms (cramps, aches, swelling, etc.), and pain severity were shown to be significantly mitigated, possibly through hormone (estradiol, prolactin, progesterone, and cortisol) modulation. Furthermore, high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (HsCRP), PGE2 and PGF2 alpha levels were also down-regulated, re-sulting in the amelioration of uterine contraction and inflamma-tion. Participants' physical fitness, including cardiovascular en-durance and explosive force, was significantly improved after HIIT. The 10-week HIIT spinning bike exercise used in this study could be employed as a potential and complementary treatment for PD symptoms alleviation and considered as part of an educa-tional health plan for promoting women's health. However, the effects of HIIT utilizing different exercise methods and account-ing for different age populations and secondary PD warrant fur-ther investigation.		[Huang, Wen-Ching; Chiu, Pei Chi] Natl Taipei Univ Nursing & Hlth Sci, Dept Exercise & Hlth Sci, 365 Ming Te Rd, Taipei 112303, Taiwan; [Ho, Chi Hong] Taipei Vet Gen Hosp, Dept Obstet & Gynecol, Taipei, Taiwan; [Huang, Wen-Ching] Natl Taipei Univ Nursing & Hlth Sci, Dept Exercise & Hlth Sci, 365 Ming Te Rd, Taipei 112303, Taiwan								26							Sport Sciences	WOS:000889673900001	42	Article; Article		
J	Ladak, Ali; Karges-Brown, Joy R.; Ness, Brandon M.; Schweinle, William E.; Ammon, Robin								US physical therapist practice patterns evaluating concussion and clinical practice guideline adherence								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				59				17	24		10.1016/j.ptsp.2022.09.005			JAN 2023	2023	Objectives: To assess the influence of contemporary physical therapy clinical practice guidelines (CPG) on concussion evaluation practice patterns and barriers/facilitators for CPG adherence.Design: Electronic cross-sectional survey.Setting: Online survey platform.Participants: US licensed physical therapists that manage concussion. Main outcome measures: 1) practice patterns 2) knowledge/use of CPG 3) barriers/facilitations to CPG adherence.Results: Knowledge/use of CPG categories significantly predicted the model (x2(1) = 10.966, p < .001) of total vignette scores/practice patterns with a statistically significant effect. A Kruskal-Wallis test indi-cated significant differences in total vignette score means based on knowledge/use between "not aware of the concussion CPG" and "integrated concussion CPG into practice" groups (p < .001, ES = .21). Knowledge/use of the CPG predicted the perceived barriers/facilitators model for three questions: in-vestment in specialized concussion training (x2(1) = 39.52, p < .001), necessary equipment to complete concussion evaluation (x2(1) =16.01, p < .001), and confidence around concussion evaluation knowledge (x2(1) = 27.46, p < .001) with a significant effect.Conclusion: The results of this study provide support for guiding documents like the CPG to positively influence concussion practice patterns and insight into facilitators for guideline adherence. (c) 2022 Published by Elsevier Ltd.		[Ladak, Ali] Childrens Hosp Philadelphia, Ctr Rehabil, Philadelphia, PA USA; [Karges-Brown, Joy R.] Univ South Dakota, Sch Hlth Sci, Dept Phys Therapy, Vermillion, SD USA; [Ness, Brandon M.] Tufts Univ, Dept Publ Hlth & Community Med, Sch Med, Physical Therapy Program, Boston, MA USA; [Schweinle, William E.] Univ South Dakota, Sch Hlth Sci, Dept Res Dev, Vermillion, SD USA; [Ammon, Robin] Univ South Dakota, Div Kinesiol & Sport Management, Vermillion, SD USA; [Ladak, Ali] Childrens Hosp Philadelphia, Ctr Rehabil, 3500 Civ Ctr Blvd, Philadelphia, PA 19104 USA; [Ladak, Ali] Childrens Hosp Philadelphia, Ctr Rehabil, 3500 Civ Ctr Blvd, Philadelphia, PA 19104 USA								4							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000974230700001	24	Article; Article		
J	Csato, Laszlo								A paradox of tournament seeding								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	4			1277	1284		10.1177/17479541221141617			AUG 2023	2023	We analyse a mathematical model of seeding for sports contests with round-robin qualifying tournaments. The standard seeding system based on coefficients measuring the historical performance of the teams is shown to be unfair as it might potentially punish a team for its better results by having to face stronger opponents on average in the next stage. Major football competitions are revealed to suffer from this weakness. Incentive compatibility can be guaranteed by providing each qualified team with the highest coefficient of all teams that are ranked lower in its qualifying tournament for seeding purposes. Our proposal is illustrated by the 2020/21 UEFA Champions League.		[Csato, Laszlo] Eotvos Lorand Res Network ELKH, Inst Comp Sci & Control SZTAK, Lab Engn & Management Intelligence, Res Grp Operat Res & Decis Syst, Budapest, Hungary; [Csato, Laszlo] Corvinus Univ Budapest BCE, Dept Operat Res & Actuarial Sci, Budapest, Hungary; [Csato, Laszlo] Inst Comp Sci & Control SZTAK, Kende St 13-17, Budapest, Hungary								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000892710600001	44	Article; Article		
J	Kocak, Umut Z.; Stiffler-Joachim, Mikel R.; Heiderscheit, Bryan C.								Comparison of eccentric hamstring strength and asymmetry at return-to-sport after hamstring strain injury among those who did and did not re-injure								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				59				25	29		10.1016/j.ptsp.2022.11.006			JAN 2023	2023	Objectives: The primary aim of this study was to describe eccentric hamstring strength magnitude and asymmetry at the time of return-to-sport (RTS) after an index hamstring strain injury (HSI) and deter-mine if there were differences in strength asymmetry at RTS between those who did and did not go on to re-injure within 1-month and within 3-months of RTS.Design: Cross-sectional study.Setting: Laboratory-based. Participants: Sixty National Collegiate Athletic Association Division I athletes with index HSI. Main Outcome Measures: Maximum hamstring eccentric strength for each limb, total maximum strength summed across limbs, and between-limb asymmetry at the time of RTS following the index HSI, assessed using the NordBord Hamstring Testing System.Results: Of the 60 index HSIs, 8 (13%), and 11 (18%) re-injuries occurred within 1 and 3-months of RTS, respectively. There were no differences between those who did and did not re-injure in maximum eccentric force of either limb (p-values >= 0.52), total force from both limbs (p-values >= 0.47), and between limb force asymmetry (p-values >= 0.91), regardless if re-injury occurred within 1 or 3-months after RTS.Conclusions: Eccentric hamstring strength and asymmetry measured at the time of RTS did not differ between those who did and did not re-injure within 3-months of RTS.(c) 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Kocak, Umut Z.] Izmir Katip Celebi Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Physiotherapy & Rehabil, Izmir, Turkiye; [Kocak, Umut Z.; Stiffler-Joachim, Mikel R.; Heiderscheit, Bryan C.] Univ Wisconsin, Dept Orthoped & Rehabil, Madison, WI USA; [Kocak, Umut Z.; Stiffler-Joachim, Mikel R.; Heiderscheit, Bryan C.] Univ Wisconsin, Badger Athlet Performance Program, Madison, WI USA; [Kocak, Umut Z.] Izmir Katip Celebi Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Physiotherapy & Rehabil, Izmir, Turkiye								6							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000974582000001	34	Article; Article		
J	Berriel, Guilherme Pereira; Cardoso, Ananda Silveira; da Silva, Edson Soares; Schons, Pedro; Melo, Onecimo Ubirata Medina; Bernardo, Rodrigo Torma; Fritsch, Carolina Gassen; Ferreira, Natalia Santos; Kruel, Luiz Fernando Martins; Peyre-Tartaruga, Leonardo Alexandre								Relationship between knee extensor and flexor muscle strength and age in professional volleyball players								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	12			3577	3588		10.1080/14763141.2022.2146530			DEC 1 2024	2024	We aimed to analyse the relationship of peak torque (PT) of the knee extensors (Ext) and flexors (Fle) with age, and the relationship between conventional ratio and age progression in volleyball players. A total of 41 elite male volleyball players (age: 25.0 +/- 6.1 years, body mass: 93.0 +/- 9.8 kg, height: 198.0 +/- 6.8 cm) were evaluated in a isokinetic dynamometer at speeds of 60, 180 and 300 deg/s, and at dominant (D) and non-dominant (ND) legs. In general, the knee flexor and extensor muscles varied greatly among the athletes (from 81 to 156 N.m for flexors; from 116 to 250 N.m for extensors at 300 deg/s and at dominant side). The mass-specific PT of knee extensors showed strong and negative correlation with ageing at 60 and 180 deg/s (r = -0.52-0.62, p < 0.01). The conventional ratio showed regular and positive relationship at all evaluated velocities (60 degrees.s(-1), r = 0.453, p < 0.01; 180 degrees.s(-1), r = 0.498, p < 0.01; 300 degrees.s(-1), r = 0.316, p = 0.04). The results demonstrated that volleyball players are susceptible to age-related effects on muscular performance during their career; this finding illustrates the importance of adopting training strategies to improve the production of strength in the lower limbs, which is essential for vertical jumps.		[Berriel, Guilherme Pereira; Cardoso, Ananda Silveira; da Silva, Edson Soares; Schons, Pedro; Melo, Onecimo Ubirata Medina; Bernardo, Rodrigo Torma; Fritsch, Carolina Gassen; Ferreira, Natalia Santos; Kruel, Luiz Fernando Martins; Peyre-Tartaruga, Leonardo Alexandre] Univ Fed Rio Grande do S ul, Exercise Res Exercise, Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil; [Berriel, Guilherme Pereira] Univ Fed Rio Grande do S ul, Exercise Res Exercise, Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil								2							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000891857900001	33	Article; Article		
J	Pan, Jing Wen; Komar, John; Yang, Chen; Kong, Pui Wah								Influence of expertise level on techniques of applying top and back spins in cue sports								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	12			3589	3601		10.1080/14763141.2022.2148554			DEC 1 2024	2024	This study compared the kinematics of upper body and cue stick among players of various skill levels when performing back spin and top spin shots. Twenty-eight male cue sports players were assigned to the novice (n = 10), intermediate (n = 9), or skilled groups (n = 9). The back spin and top spin tests were administrated while kinematic data were recorded using a 3D motion capture system. The results revealed greater upper limb joint ranges of motions (all p < 0.05), maximum angular velocities (all p < 0.05), and cue tip speed in the back spin than top spin shots (p < 0.001). None of joint kinematic or shot performance variables investigated was significantly different among the three skill levels (all p > 0.05). For the head movement, the novice group exhibited greater anteroposterior displacement than the skilled group (p = 0.020). In conclusion, except for the head movement, the upper body and cue stick kinematics did not significantly differ among players with varied skill levels. Greater joint ranges of motions and angular velocities were required to generate a faster cue tip speed for the back spin shots when compared with the top spin shots.		[Pan, Jing Wen; Komar, John; Kong, Pui Wah] Nanyang Technol Univ, Natl Inst Educ, Phys Educ & Sports Sci Acad Grp, Singapore, Singapore; [Yang, Chen] McGill Univ, Dept Kinesiol & Phys Educ, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Kong, Pui Wah] Nanyang Technol Univ, Natl Inst Educ, Off Grad Studies & Profess Learning, Singapore, Singapore; [Kong, Pui Wah] Nanyang Technol Univ, Natl Inst Educ, Phys Educ & Sports Sci Acad Grp, Singapore, Singapore; [Kong, Pui Wah] Nanyang Technol Univ, Natl Inst Educ, Off Grad Studies & Profess Learning, Singapore, Singapore								4							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000889672200001	22	Article; Article		
J	Kara, Omer Serkan; Torgutalp, Serife Seyma; Turhan, Egemen; Donmez, Gurhan; Korkusuz, Feza								Operative treatment in non-emergency sports injuries: a sports medicine clinic experience								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				51	6			596	602		10.1080/00913847.2022.2151325			NOV 2 2023	2023	PurposeTo elucidate referrals from sports medicine clinic (SMC) to orthopedics, consensus rates among physicians and surgeons on surgical need in these patients, and reasoning of the patients who refused to have surgery despite the recommendations by both groups in non-emergency sports injury patients.MethodsWe conducted a retrospective cohort analysis by using the administrative and referral records of a sports medicine clinic for the 15 months between October 2017 and January 2019. Gender, age, diagnosis, and type of sport were compared between two groups (patients referred to orthopedics vs patients treated in SMC). Agreement between orthopedics and SMC on surgical need in those patients who were referred to orthopedics was evaluated. We additionally screened the hospital archive for surgery reports of patients recommended surgery, and, if a patient did not have a surgery record, we investigated the reasons by telephone interview and categorized these reasons.ResultsSurgical evaluation needed for 4.7% (n = 155) of the patients. Patients referred to orthopedics were younger (median: 22.0 years), mostly male (n = 119, 76.8%), and involved in contact sports (n = 108, 69.7%) (p < 0.001 for all) compared to patients treated conservatively. Majority of the consultations were made owing to certain diagnoses such as cruciate/collateral ligament sprain (n = 70, 45.2%), meniscal tear (n = 21, 13.5%), and cartilage injuries (n = 15, 9.7%). Most of the patients diagnosed with Achilles tendon rupture (n = 2, 100%) and patellar instability (n = 13, 81.3%) were referred to surgery. Orthopedics agreed with the sports medicine physicians' opinions in most cases (n = 110, 71.0%). Thirty-four patients (30.9%) recommended surgery by the surgeon postponed/refused the treatment for various reasons or had surgery in another hospital.ConclusionMost non-emergency sports injuries can be treated conservatively. Young and male patients participating in contact sports are more likely to need surgical treatment. Non-surgeon musculoskeletal health-care providers may consider referring patients to orthopedics considering the data demonstrated in this study. Nevertheless, patient's motivation to undergo an operation should be considered before referring to orthopedics.		[Kara, Omer Serkan; Torgutalp, Serife Seyma; Donmez, Gurhan; Korkusuz, Feza] Hacettepe Univ, Dept Sports Med, Med Fac, TR-06230 Ankara, Turkey; [Kara, Omer Serkan] Univ Gulhane, Dept Sports Med, Hlth Sci, Med Fac, TR-06010 Ankara, Turkey; [Turhan, Egemen] Hacettepe Univ, Dept Orthoped & Traumatol, Med Fac, TR-06230 Ankara, Turkey; [Korkusuz, Feza] Hacettepe Univ, Dept Sports Med Altindag, Med Fac, TR-06230 Ankara, Turkey; [Korkusuz, Feza] Hacettepe Univ, Dept Sports Med Altindag, Med Fac, TR-06230 Ankara, Turkey								1							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000891485300001	28	Article; Article		
J	Bussey, Melanie D.; Pinfold, Jayden; Romanchuk, Janelle; Salmon, Danielle								Anticipatory head control mechanisms in response to impact perturbations: An investigation of club rugby players with and without a history of concussion injury								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				59				7	16		10.1016/j.ptsp.2022.11.002			JAN 2023	2023	Objectives: The primary objective of this study was to examine rugby players anticipatory and compensatory head control during predictable and unpredictable impact events. Methods: An observational cross-sectional study design. Fifty-one (17_healthy 34_concussion) male rugby players were exposed to external predictable and unpredictable impact perturbations at mid-chest level. Surface EMG of the upper-trapezius (UT), splenius-capitis (Spl) and sternocleidomastoid (Scm) was recorded and analysed across three temporal epochs typical for anticipatory and compensatory postural control. Synchronized sagittal head-kinematics were measured from high-speed video (500 fps). Nonparametric tests were used to examine within and between group effects. Results: Anticipatory head control was evident in predictable conditions, expressed by early posterior head displacement and activation of the Spl. Compared to unpredictable conditions, muscle amplitudes were significantly lower, as was head acceleration. Compared to Healthy, the Concussion athletes lacked early activation of the Spl, exhibited delayed anticipatory head adjustments and experienced higher head accelerations in predictable conditions. Conclusion: Rugby players with concussion injuries have significant deficits in cervical spinal motor control. The concussed motor control strategy leads to higher inertial head accelerations and delayed anticipatory head displacements. Effects may persist for two or more years following injury, which may indicate re-injury vulnerability in these athletes.		[Bussey, Melanie D.; Pinfold, Jayden; Romanchuk, Janelle] Univ Otago, Sch Phys Educ Sport & Exercise Sci, Dunedin, New Zealand; [Pinfold, Jayden] Hawkes Bay Rugby, Napier, New Zealand; [Romanchuk, Janelle; Salmon, Danielle] New Zealand Rugby, Auckland, New Zealand; [Bussey, Melanie D.] Univ Otago, Sch Phys Educ Sport & Exercise Sci, Dunedin, New Zealand								11							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000974189000001	53	Article; Article		
J	Bahamonde-Birke, Francisco. J. J.; Bahamonde-Birke, Ramon Andres								About the "Away Goals Rule" in Association Football. Does Scrapping the Rule Increase the Fairness of the Game?								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				24	3			310	328		10.1177/15270025221128957			APR 2023	2023	The present study analyzes all major international football tournaments organized by UEFA and CONMEBOL during a period of 30 years to assess the impact of the away goals rule (AGR). The study takes advantage of natural experiment given by the differentiated application of the AGR by both confederations, in order to assess the efficacy and the consequences of the rule in terms of both the total amount of goals being scored (the original intention of the rule) and the teams that progressed onto the next stages. The results show that the AGR seems to have failed to fulfill its original goal of increasing both scoring by teams playing away and scoring in general. The AGR is found to have a significant impact favoring the chances of the team starting the series at home. However, it still does not translate into a higher probability of progressing onto the next stage than the team closing the series at home. Closing the series at home has an intrinsic advantage, which is only countered, although not completely, by the impact of the AGR. Regarding tiebreakers, we observe that closing the series at home has a positive impact no matter whether overtimes with AGR or penalty shootouts are used as tiebreakers. However, playing an overtime, when no AGR is set in place has a determining influence favoring the team closing the series at home.		[Bahamonde-Birke, Francisco. J. J.] Univ Utrecht, Sociale Geog Planol, Utrecht, Netherlands; [Bahamonde-Birke, Francisco. J. J.] Tilburg Univ, Tilburg Sch Social & Behav Sci, Dept Methodol & Stat, Tilburg, Netherlands; [Bahamonde-Birke, Ramon Andres] BB Investments & Consulting, Santiago, Chile; [Bahamonde-Birke, Francisco. J. J.] Univ Utrecht, Sociale Geog Planol, Utrecht, Netherlands; [Bahamonde-Birke, Francisco. J. J.] Tilburg Univ, Tilburg Sch Social & Behav Sci, Dept Methodol & Stat, Tilburg, Netherlands								11							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000890200000001	26	Article; Article		
J	Ranaweera, Jayamini; Zanin, Marco; Weaving, Dan; Roe, Gregory								Using consensus methods to standardise judgement-based guidelines required for player management decision-making processes: A case study in professional rugby union								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	1			429	443		10.1177/17479541221140192			FEB 2024	2024	Standards are pivotal for generating the evidence required to manage players in professional sport environments like rugby union. Resultantly, using a three-step qualitative approach, this study aimed to formulate a consensus as a subjective standard for evidence generation pertaining to player management. The consensus statement intended to identify evidence on peaks/troughs in player external training loads using Global Positioning System (GPS)-based information in the High-Performance Unit (HPU) of a Gallagher Premiership rugby union club. Initially, a systematic review adhering to the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis (PRISMA) framework was conducted to unravel the factors considered (literature-based cues) when identifying peaks/troughs in player external training loads using GPS information. Next, thematic analysis conducted on the data obtained from 7 semi-structured interviews with HPU staff highlighted that they consider 6 factors with 38 elements (practitioner-based cues) during player external training load management. Thereafter, guided by the Appraisal of Guidelines for Research and Evaluation (AGREE) II instrument and by utilising selected elements representing 4/6 factors (healthy player, GPS information, longitudinal durations and practitioner judgements on information), a consensus among practitioners for identifying peaks/troughs in player external training loads was developed with the participation of five HPU members using the nominal group technique (NGT). Practitioners reached an agreement with regard to 12 indicators to subjectively identify peaks/troughs in player external training loads within the considered environment.		[Ranaweera, Jayamini; Zanin, Marco; Weaving, Dan; Roe, Gregory] Leeds Beckett Univ, Carnegie Sch Sport, Carnegie Appl Rugby Res CARR Ctr, Leeds, England; [Ranaweera, Jayamini; Roe, Gregory] Bath Rugby Football Club, Bath, England; [Ranaweera, Jayamini] Leeds Beckett Univ, Carnegie Sch Sport, Carnegie Appl Rugby Res CARR Ctr, Headingley Campus, Leeds LS6 3QS, England; [Ranaweera, Jayamini] Leeds Beckett Univ, Carnegie Sch Sport, Carnegie Appl Rugby Res CARR Ctr, Headingley Campus, Leeds LS6 3QS, England								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000890157200001	40	Article; Article		
J	Wood, Matthew A.; Mellalieu, Stephen D.; Araujo, Duarte; Woods, Carl T.; Davids, Keith								Learning to coach: An ecological dynamics perspective								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	2			609	620		10.1177/17479541221138680			APR 2023	2023	A constraints-led approach (CLA), based on an ecological dynamics rationale for athlete learning and development has been applied to analyses of individual and team sports. To date, such an approach has yet to be applied to the learning of coaches. Here, we propose how applying a CLA in education and professional development programmes can shape emerging behaviours of coaches as they interact with constraints of representative environments to adapt their practice. A core concept within ecological dynamics for coach education is the conceptual differentiation between knowledge of (direct perception) and knowledge about (indirect perception) the environment. Current coach education and development practices focus primarily on the acquisition and transmission of knowledge about, which over-relies on provision of (abstract) verbal and visual augmented corrective information found in manuals. Reconsidering coaches' behaviours as emerging under constraints provides a coach developer opportunities to identify and manipulate key individual, environmental and task constraints. This approach guides attention to relevant and alternative affordances (opportunities for action) when coaching, and promotes continuous self-regulation of coach learning, supported by an experienced mentor. Learning to coach through a CLA could result in an extensive appreciation of multiple sources of knowledge, resulting in a continuously deepening fit between the coach and their performance environment. An ecological perspective of a coach learning to adapt to the constraints of a performance environment offers an alternative to current formalised coach development practice.		[Wood, Matthew A.; Mellalieu, Stephen D.] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Cardiff, Wales; [Araujo, Duarte] Univ Lisbon, Fac Motricidade Humana, CIPER, Lisbon, Portugal; [Woods, Carl T.] Victoria Univ, Inst Hlth & Sport, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Davids, Keith] Sheffield Hallam Univ, Sport & Human Performance Res Grp, Sheffield, S Yorkshire, England; [Wood, Matthew A.] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Cardiff, Wales								51							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000889604800001	73	Article; Article		
J	Elmadag, A. Banu; Yaoyuneyong, Gallayanee; Burgess, Brigitte								Inclusivity in sports: fan attitudes and behaviors towards nonbinary athletes								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				24	3			449	469		10.1108/IJSMS-01-2022-0026			JUL 31 2023	2023	PurposeThis study aims to examine diversity and inclusivity in sports from a sexual orientation perspective. A literature review summarizes known findings on attitudes and perceptions of and towards nonbinary individuals in sports. Adopting Herek's (2007) Sexual Stigma perspective, an experiment is conducted exploring the differences in fan attitudes and behavioral intentions towards nonbinary athletes in both women's and men's sports.Design/methodology/approachA systematic review of extant literature identified 24 peer-reviewed primary studies examining nonbinary individuals in sports. A 2 (Sport: Women's vs. Men's Basketball) x 2 (Nonbinary Indicator: Indicator vs. No-Indicator) experimental study was then designed to further explore fan attitudes towards nonbinary athletes.FindingsThe study revealed that, among sports fans, there was no perceived performance difference in women's or men's basketball linked to athletes' nonbinary status (as measured by athletic ability, future performance, sportsmanship, talent and quickness). However, measures of fan support (sport engagement, intention to buy team merchandise and team fanship) were lower when the athlete was perceived as nonbinary. For women's basketball, team fanship and intention to buy team merchandise were significantly lower, while the difference was not significant in men's basketball.Originality/valueAlong with an inclusive review of prior literature, this is the first empirical study to examine the differences in fans' attitudes towards nonbinary athletes in both women's and men's sports at the same time via an experimental design.		[Elmadag, A. Banu; Yaoyuneyong, Gallayanee; Burgess, Brigitte] Univ Southern Mississippi, Sch Mkt, Hattiesburg, MS 39406 USA; [Elmadag, A. Banu] Univ Southern Mississippi, Sch Mkt, Hattiesburg, MS 39406 USA								10							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000885581800001	68	Article; Article		
J	Eyssartier, C.; Billard, P.; Robert, M.; Thoreux, P.; Sauret, C.								Which typical floor movements of men's artistic gymnastics result in the most extreme lumbar lordosis and ground reaction forces?								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	3			638	653		10.1080/14763141.2022.2140702			MAR 4 2025	2025	Back pain is prevalent among gymnast populations and extreme flexion or extension of the lumbar spine along with high ground reaction forces (GRFs) are known to increase intervertebral stress. The aim of this study was to determine which postures and dynamic conditions among common floor movements provide the greatest risk of injury in men's artistic gymnastics (MAG). For this purpose, lumbar spine curvatures, obtained through a full-body subject-specific kinematic model fed by motion capture data, and GRFs on feet and hands were compared between typical floor movements of MAG (pike jump, round off back handspring, front handspring, forward and backward tucked somersaults) performed by six adolescent gymnasts. The round off back handspring and the pike jump resulted respectively in the largest lumbar extension and flexion, and the forward tucked somersault take-off in the highest GRF. At ground impacts, the largest lumbar flexion was during the backward tucked somersault landing and only the back handspring hands ground contact phase led to lumbar extension. Such identification of high-risk conditions should enable better back pain management in gymnastics through more tailored training adaptations, particularly in case of pathologies or musculoskeletal specificities.		[Eyssartier, C.; Sauret, C.] Univ Sorbonne Paris Nord, HESAM Univ, Arts & Metiers Inst Technol, IBHGC Inst Biomecan Humaine Georges Charpak, Paris, France; [Eyssartier, C.; Billard, P.; Robert, M.] Federat Francaise Gymnast, Paris, France; [Thoreux, P.] Hop Hotel Dieu, AP HP, Paris, France; [Thoreux, P.] Univ Sorbonne Paris Nord, HESAM Univ, Arts & Metiers Inst Technol, IBHGC Inst Biomecan Humaine Georges Charpak, Paris, France; [Sauret, C.] Inst Natl Invalides, Ctr Etud & Rech Appareillage Handicapes, Paris, France; [Eyssartier, C.] Univ Sorbonne Paris Nord, HESAM Univ, Arts & Metiers Inst Technol, IBHGC Inst Biomecan Humaine Georges Charpak, Paris, France; [Eyssartier, C.] Federat Francaise Gymnast, Paris, France								5							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000884221300001	26	Article; Article		
J	Nalbantis, Georgios; Pawlowski, Tim; Schreyer, Dominik								Substitution Effects and the Transnational Demand for European Soccer Telecasts								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				24	4			407	442		10.1177/15270025221132234			MAY 2023	2023	European soccer leagues' internationalization efforts have significantly increased the number of available telecasts abroad. In the US, this has fueled discussions about the degree of audience overlap between networks broadcasting international soccer. However, whether and to what extent telecasts of different leagues indeed constitute substitutes has never been explored empirically. Drawing on US audience data for Bundesliga telecasts, we analyze the impact of scheduling clashes with Premier League, La Liga, and Serie A games. Econometric demand models reveal sizeable substitution effects caused primarily by overlapping Premier League games, suggesting significant competition for the soccer audience in the US market.		[Nalbantis, Georgios; Pawlowski, Tim] Univ Tubingen, Inst Sports Sci, Fac Econ & Social Sci, Tubingen, Germany; [Schreyer, Dominik] WHU Otto Beisheim Sch Management, Ctr Sports & Management, Dusseldorf, Germany; [Nalbantis, Georgios] Univ Tubingen, Wilhelmstr 124, D-72074 Tubingen, Germany; [Nalbantis, Georgios] Univ Tubingen, Wilhelmstr 124, D-72074 Tubingen, Germany								6							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000885687100001	81	Article; Article		
J	Giel, Thomas; Dallmeyer, Soren; Memmert, Daniel; Breuer, Christoph								Corruption and Self-Sabotage in Sporting Competitions - An Experimental Approach to Match-Fixing Behavior and the Influence of Deterrence Factors								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				24	4			497	525		10.1177/15270025221134239			MAY 2023	2023	This study investigates match-fixing employing a 2-player contest in an experimental setting. Subjects compete in a real-effort task and are bribed onetime to self-sabotage. Based on Becker's deterrence hypothesis, the effectiveness of deterrent factors is analyzed via different treatments applying an expected utility framework. Results show that the majority of participants do not maximize their monetary payoff, that increasing detection probability has a higher deterring effect on bribe acceptance compared to severity of monetary punishment, and that participants with lower performance levels were more likely to accept bribes. Implications are derived for sport governing bodies to operate against match-fixing.		[Giel, Thomas; Dallmeyer, Soren; Breuer, Christoph] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Sport Econ & Sport Management, Cologne, Germany; [Memmert, Daniel] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Exercise Training & Sport Informat, Cologne, Germany; [Giel, Thomas] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Sport Econ & Sport Management, Am Sportpark Muengersdorf 6, D-50933 Cologne, Germany; [Giel, Thomas] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Sport Econ & Sport Management, Am Sportpark Muengersdorf 6, D-50933 Cologne, Germany								3							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000885179800001	47	Article; Article		
J	Miyazaki, Terumitsu; Fujii, Norihisa								Effects of changes in optimal muscle fibre length in the biceps femoris long head on muscle force during the late swing phase of maximal speed sprinting: a simulation study								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	3			608	623		10.1080/14763141.2022.2140070			MAR 4 2025	2025	Hamstring strain injuries would frequently occur during the late swing phase of sprinting, while increasing biceps femoris long head's (BFlh) fascicle length induced by eccentric contraction exercises can reduce the risk of strain injuries. Thus, using a musculoskeletal modelling simulation, we examined how manipulating BFlh optimal muscle fibre length would change muscle force during the late swing phase of sprinting for providing knowledge preventing hamstring strain injuries. A motion capture system was used to collect kinematic data from 40 male athletes during maximal speed sprinting. Muscle force and force-generating capabilities determined by force-length-velocity properties were estimated with three BFlh optimal muscle fibre lengths (90%, 110% and 120%), which were perturbed from the nominal (100%). During the late swing phase of sprinting, the muscle force and force-generating capabilities, induced by the force-length property rather than the force-velocity property, were increased by increases in BFlh optimal muscle fibre length. Moreover, magnitudes of the simulated increases in muscle force and force-generating capabilities were correlated with the peak BFlh muscle-tendon unit length. These results demonstrate that lengthening BFlh optimal muscle fibre might increase muscle force during the late swing phase, and the magnitude of increment would be associated with increasing muscle-tendon unit length.		[Miyazaki, Terumitsu] Natl Inst Fitness & Sports Kanoya, Kanoya, Japan; [Fujii, Norihisa] Univ Tsukuba, Fac Hlth & Sport Sci, Ibaraki, Japan; [Miyazaki, Terumitsu] Natl Inst Fitness & Sports Kanoya, Kanoya, Japan								7							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000880215200001	47	Article; Article		
J	Huang, Lin-Ling; Huang, Tsun-Shun; Lin, Yang-Hua; Huang, Cheng-Ya; Yang, Jing-Lan; Lin, Jiu-Jenq								Effects of Upper Trapezius Myofascial Trigger Points on Scapular Kinematics and Muscle Activation in Overhead Athletes								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				84	1			32	42		10.2478/hukin-2022-000079			NOV 8 2022	2022	Prolonged overactivity of the upper trapezius muscle with myofascial trigger points might cause muscle fatigue and subsequently change scapular kinematics and associated muscular activities. Scapular kinematics and associated muscular activities were investigated in 17 overhead athletes with upper trapezius myofascial trigger points and 17 controls before and after a fatigue task. Participants performed a fatigue task requiring sustained isometric scapular elevation. The outcomes included scapular kinematics (upward/downward rotation, external/internal rotation, posterior/anterior tilt) that were tracked by the Polhemus FASTRAK (Polhemus Inc., Colchester, VT, USA) system with Motion Monitor software and muscular activities (upper trapezius, lower trapezius and serratus anterior) that were collected at 1000 Hz per channel using a 16-bit analog-to-digital converter (Model MP 150, Biopac systems Inc., CA, USA) with pairs of silver chloride circular surface electrodes (The Ludlow Company LP, Chocopee, MA) during arm elevation. Mixed ANOVAs were conducted to characterize the outcomes with and without a fatigue task in participants with myofascial trigger points. Decreased scapular posterior tipping during 90 degrees of arm raising/lowering (effect sizes of 0.51 and 0.59) was likely to be elicited by the scapular elevation fatigue task in the presence of myofascial trigger points. Activity of the lower trapezius was higher in the myofascial trigger point group (6.2%, p = 0.036) than in the control group. Following the fatigue task, both groups showed increased activity in the upper trapezius (9.0%, p = 0.009) during arm lowering and in the lower trapezius (2.7%, p < 0.01) during arm raising and lowering. Decreased scapular posterior tipping during 90 degrees of arm raising/lowering after a fatigue task may lead to impingement. We found that the presence of upper trapezius myofascial trigger points in amateur overhead athletes was related to impaired scapular kinematics and associated muscular activities during arm elevation after a fatigue task, especially the decreased scapular tipping during 90 degrees of raising/lowering.		[Huang, Lin-Ling; Huang, Cheng-Ya; Lin, Jiu-Jenq] Natl Taiwan Univ, Coll Med, Sch & Grad Inst Phys Therapy, Taipei, Taiwan; [Huang, Tsun-Shun] Natl Yang Ming Chiao Tung Univ, Dept Phys Therapy & Assist Technol, Taipei, Taiwan; [Lin, Yang-Hua] Chang Gung Univ, Sch Phys Therapy, Taoyuan, Taiwan; [Yang, Jing-Lan; Lin, Jiu-Jenq] Natl Taiwan Univ Hosp, Dept Phys Med & Rehabil, Div Phys Therapy, Taipei, Taiwan; [Huang, Lin-Ling] Fu Jen Catholic Univ, Fu Jen Catholic Univ Hosp, Dept Orthoped, New Taipei, Taiwan; [Lin, Jiu-Jenq] Natl Taiwan Univ, Coll Med, Sch & Grad Inst Phys Therapy, Taipei, Taiwan								9							Sport Sciences	WOS:000879493200004	35	Article; Article		
J	Amri-Dardari, Asma; Mkaouer, Bessem; Amara, Samiha; Hammoudi-Nassib, Sarra; Habacha, Hamdi; BenSalah, Fatma Zohra								Immediate Effect of Self-Modelling with Internal Versus External Focus of Attention on Teaching/Learning Gymnastics Motor-Skills								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				84	1			224	232		10.2478/hukin-2022-0103			NOV 8 2022	2022	The aim of this study was to identify the immediate effect of self-modelling with different focus of attention strategies (i.e., internal vs. external) on the teaching/learning of gymnastics motor-skills. Fifty-nine non-gymnast students participated in this study and were divided into three groups (i.e., an external focus group (EF), an internal focus group (IF), and a control group (CG)). Each participant's performance of the back dismount in the parallel bars was assessed before the experiment (i.e., base-score), and each participant was asked to provide a self-evaluation of their performance and their efficiency percentage. Afterwards, participants received a specific learning session (i.e., self-modelling with external focus, self-modelling with internal focus, or traditional learning with verbal instruction) and performed the back dismount in the parallel bars again immediately after (i.e., final score). Four international judges evaluated performance of our participants. The results showed that the EF and IF outperformed the CG in the final score. Importantly, a significant difference between the base and the final score was observed in the EF and IF, but not in the CG. In addition, the EF showed the highest percentage of improvement (Delta-score) and self-estimation scores compared to the two other groups. In conclusion, this study supports the adoption of external focus of attention for teaching/learning gymnastics motor-skills.		[Amri-Dardari, Asma; Mkaouer, Bessem; Amara, Samiha] Manouba Univ, Higher Inst Sport & Phys Educ Kear Said, Dept Individual Sports, Manouba, Tunisia; [Amara, Samiha] Sultan Qaboos Univ, Phys Educ & Sport Sci Dept, Coll Educ, Muscat, Oman; [Hammoudi-Nassib, Sarra] Natl Ctr Med & Sci Sport, Tunisian Res Lab Sport Performance Optimizat, Tunis, Tunisia; [Habacha, Hamdi] Univ Paris, Integrat Neurosci & Cognit Ctr, CNRS, F-75006 Paris, France; [BenSalah, Fatma Zohra] Univ El Manar, Fac Med Tunis, Tunis, Tunisia; [Amara, Samiha] Higher Inst Sport & Phys Educ Ksar Said, Dept Individual Sports, Manouba 2011, Tunisia								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:000879493200023	34	Article; Article		
J	Rago, Vincenzo; Muschinsky, Adrian; Deylami, Kasper; Vigh-Larsen, Jeppe F.; Mohr, Magni								Game Demands of a Professional Ice Hockey Team with Special Emphasis on Fatigue Development and Playing Position								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				84	1			195	205		10.2478/hukin-2022-000078			NOV 8 2022	2022	The aim of this study was to describe the game activity profile of a professional ice hockey team with special emphasis on fatigue development and playing position. Data were collected using a wearable 200-Hz accelerometric system and heart rate (HR) throughout eight official games in a professional ice hockey team (6 defensemen and 11 forwards; n = 122 files). On-ice 10- and 30-m sprint performance, repeated sprint ability and HR responses to the submaximal Yo-Yo Intermittent recovery level 1 test were assessed to determine associations with game performance. Although the 3(rd) period was largely longer than the 1(st) and 2(nd) periods (r = 0.56-0.59), no differences were observed between periods in activity pattern, except a moderate decline in the number of decelerations <-2 m center dot s(-2) per min (Dec2/min) in the 2(nd) period for forwards (r = 0.06-0.60). Mean HR, time spent >85% HRmax (t85HR), as well as the total number of intense accelerations and decelerations were higher for defensemen. However, demands were similar when expressed relative to time on-ice, except that defenders performed more Dec2/min than forwards in all periods, whereas forwards spent more t85HR during the 2(nd) period (r = 0.46-0.57). Time spent on ice was inversely correlated with the total number of accelerations (Acc(tot)), accelerations >2 m center dot s(-2) per min (Acc2/min), total decelerations per min (Dec(tot)/min), Dec2/min and t85HR (r = -0.63 to -0.18) and positively correlated with mean HR and peak HR (r = 0.20- 0.53). No significant correlations were found between physical fitness and game activity variables scaled by individual time on ice. Absolute acceleration and HR demands of professional ice hockey seem to differ between playing positions, but not in relation to time on ice. Further, no clear signs of fatigue were captured, possibly due to the longer duration of rest intervals in the 3(rd) period.		[Rago, Vincenzo] Al Ain Football Club, Al Ain, U Arab Emirates; [Muschinsky, Adrian; Deylami, Kasper; Vigh-Larsen, Jeppe F.; Mohr, Magni] Univ Southern Denmark, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Sports Sci & Clin Biomech, Odense, Denmark; [Mohr, Magni] Univ Faroe Isl, Fac Hlth, Ctr Hlth Sci, Torshavn, Faroe Islands, Denmark; [Mohr, Magni] Univ Southern Denmark, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Sports Sci & Clin Biomech, Odense, Denmark								10							Sport Sciences	WOS:000879493200020	35	Article; Article		
J	Hsu, Po-Ya; Hsu, Yi-Chung; Liu, Hsin-Li; Kao, Wei Fong; Lin, Kuan-Yu								An Acute Kidney Injury Prediction Model for 24-hour Ultramarathon Runners								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				84	1			103	111		10.2478/hukin-2022-0070			NOV 8 2022	2022	Acute kidney injury (AKI) is frequently seen in ultrarunners, and in this study, an AKI prediction model for 24-hour ultrarunners was built based on the runner's prerace blood, urine, and body composition data. Twenty-two ultrarunners participated in the study. The risk of acquiring AKI was evaluated by a support vector machine (SVM) model, which is a statistical model commonly used for classification tasks. The inputs of the SVM model were the data collected 1 hour before the race, and the output of the SVM model was the decision of acquiring AKI. Our best AKI prediction model achieved accuracy of 96% in training and 90% in cross-validation tests. In addition, the sensitivity and specificity of the model were 90% and 100%, respectively. In accordance with the AKI prediction model components, ultra-runners are suggested to have high muscle mass and undergo regular ultra-endurance sports training to reduce the risk of acquiring AKI after participating in a 24-hour ultramarathon.		[Hsu, Po-Ya] Univ Calif San Diego, Dept Comp Sci & Engn, La Jolla, CA 92093 USA; [Hsu, Yi-Chung] Fu Jen Catholic Univ Hosp, Dept Nurse Practitioner, Taipei, Taiwan; [Liu, Hsin-Li; Lin, Kuan-Yu] Cent Taiwan Univ Sci & Technol, Dept Nursing, Taichung 40601, Taiwan; [Kao, Wei Fong] Taipei Med Univ, Dept Emergency Med, Taipei, Taiwan; [Lin, Kuan-Yu] Cent Taiwan Univ Sci & Technol, Dept Nursing, Taichung 40601, Taiwan								6							Sport Sciences	WOS:000879493200011	17	Article; Article		
J	Amasay, Tal; Suprak, David N.								Predicting Time to Take-Off in a Countermovement Jump for Maximal Quickness From Upright and Squat Starting Positions								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				84	1			53	62		10.2478/hukin-2022-0091			NOV 8 2022	2022	A countermovement jump (CMJ) is common in sport and often time-constrained. Little is known about contributors to quickness in jumps. This study examined effective predictors of time to take-off and effects of the starting position on reaction time and take-off time in a countermovement jump performed for quickness from upright and squat positions. Forty-nine collegiate athletes performed CMJs for quickness from upright and squatting starting positions to 75% of their maximal jump height. Several variables were calculated from the kinetic data related to jump performance. Correlation and multiple regression were used to determine variables related and predictive of time to take-off under both conditions. Paired t-tests evaluated differences in reaction and take-off times between conditions. In the upright condition, an increasing rate of force development and force, and decreasing time variables, impulses, and countermovement depth were associated with shorter time to take-off. The time to take-off prediction included rates of force development, force, time, and impulse. In the squat condition, shorter time to take-off was associated with lesser time variables, eccentric impulse, force at the end of the eccentric phase, and countermovement depth, and a greater rate of force development, concentric impulse, peak power, peak force, and reaction time. The time to take-off prediction equation included time to the bottom of the countermovement, time to peak force, and peak power. Reaction and take-off times were longer in the upright condition. Quick jump efficiency may be improved by strategies to increase maximum strength and the eccentric rate of force development while decreasing countermovement depth and time to bottom.		[Amasay, Tal] Barry Univ, Miami Shores, FL USA; [Suprak, David N.] Western Washington Univ, Bellingham, WA 98225 USA; [Suprak, David N.] Western Washington Univ, Dept Hlth & Human Dev, Bellingham, WA 98225 USA								7							Sport Sciences	WOS:000879493200006	23	Article; Article		
J	Becker, Nevinn W.; Ziebarth, Amber D.; Larson, Dennis J.; Zwambag, Derek P.; Brown, Stephen H. M.								Influence of Spine-Focused Verbal Instruction on Spine Flexion During Lifting								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				84	1			12	20		10.2478/hukin-2022-0085			NOV 8 2022	2022	Lifting with a flexed spine, especially near the end range of motion, has been identified as a potential risk factor for low back injury/pain. Therefore, individuals who develop discomfort from repetitive, prolonged and/or loaded flexed or slouched postures may benefit from a greater awareness of how to control and/or modify their spinal posture to avoid irritating their backs in these situations. This study was therefore designed to test the ability of spine-oriented verbal instructions to reduce intersegmental spine flexion during three lifting tasks. The lifts were first performed without any instructions on lifting technique. An audio recording was then played with instructions to limit bending in the lower back before repeating the lifts. Following the verbal instructions, maximum spine flexion angles significantly (p < 0.05) decreased at intersegmental levels in the lower thoracic and upper lumbar (T8/T9 to L2/L3) regions, but no significant changes were observed at the lower lumbar levels (L3/L4 to L5/S1). Thus, it is concluded that spine-oriented verbal instructions can decrease spine flexion during lifting; however, other cues/instructions may be required to target lower lumbar levels which have been identified as the most prone to injury/pain.		[Becker, Nevinn W.; Ziebarth, Amber D.; Larson, Dennis J.; Zwambag, Derek P.; Brown, Stephen H. M.] Univ Guelph, Dept Human Hlth & Nutr Sci, 50 Stone Rd East, Guelph, ON N1G 2W1, Canada; [Brown, Stephen H. M.] Univ Guelph, Dept Human Hlth & Nutr Sci, 50 Stone Rd East, Guelph, ON N1G 2W1, Canada								7							Sport Sciences	WOS:000879493200002	27	Article; Article		
J	Castro, Henrique de Oliveira; Aguiar, Samuel da Silva; Figueiredo, Lucas Savassi; Laporta, Lorenzo; Teixeira Costa, Gustavo De Conti; Afonso, Jose; Gomes, Sergio Adriano; de Oliveira, Vivian								Prevalence of the Relative Age Effect in Elite Brazilian Volleyball: An Analysis Based on Gender, the Playing Position, and Performance Indicators								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				84	1			148	157		10.2478/hukin-2022-0093			NOV 8 2022	2022	Athletes born closer to an arbitrary cut-off date are more likely to reach an elite level in sport, which is supported by a phenomenon called the relative age effect (RAE). It is important to determine whether this phenomenon is present in a sport to minimize this selection bias. This study aimed to investigate the prevalence of RAE in elite volleyball athletes, considering the influence of gender, the playing position (Setter, Middle, Libero, Opposite, and Outside Hitter) and the performance level (attack points, aces, and block points). The sample comprised 203 male and 193 female athletes competing in the Superliga A in the 2020/2021 season, which was equivalent to all of the teams of the championship. The data collection was performed during May and June, 2021. Athletes were organized according to gender, the playing position, and performance in the Superliga. For performance variables, athletes were separated based on the median value (90.0), and classified as high- or low-performance. Chi-squared tests were performed to verify differences between birth date distributions in relation to the aforementioned variables. Results indicated overrepresentation of relatively older male athletes (Q1 = 35.96%; Q2 = 27.59%; Q3 = 19.21%; Q4 = 17.24%), especially in Middles, Opposites, and Outside Hitters, regardless of their performance level. Considering females, no differences were found. Our findings suggest that RAE operates differently for men and women in elite Brazilian volleyball. The characteristics of the games played by male and female elite athletes may lead to different talent selection processes, affecting the likelihood of RAE prevalence.		[Castro, Henrique de Oliveira] Univ Fed Mato Grosso, Phys Educ Dept, Cuiaba, Brazil; [Aguiar, Samuel da Silva] Univ Ctr UDF, Phys Educ Dept, Brasilia, DF, Brazil; [Figueiredo, Lucas Savassi] Univ Fed Juiz de Fora, Phys Educ Dept, Governador Valadares Adv Campus, Governador Valadares, Brazil; [Laporta, Lorenzo] Univ Fed Santa Maria, Ctr Adv Study & Res Sports, Ctr Phys Educ & Sport, Santa Maria, RS, Brazil; [Teixeira Costa, Gustavo De Conti] Univ Fed Goias, Fac Phys Educ & Dance, Ctr Adv Study & Res Sports, Goiania, Go, Brazil; [Afonso, Jose] Univ Porto, Ctr Res Educ Innovat & Intervent Sport, Porto, Portugal; [Gomes, Sergio Adriano] Univ Catolica Brasilia, Grad Program Phys Educ, Taguatinga, Brazil; [Gomes, Sergio Adriano] Univ Ctr UniCEUB, Phys Educ Dept, Brasilia, DF, Brazil; [de Oliveira, Vivian] Univ Ctr IESB, Phys Educ Dept, Brasilia, DF, Brazil; [de Oliveira, Vivian] Sao Paulo State Univ, Biosci Inst, Rio Claro, Brazil; [Castro, Henrique de Oliveira] Univ Fed Mato Grosso FEF UFMT, Fac Phys Educ, Phys Educ Dept, Av Fernando Correa Costa 2367, BR-78060900 Cuiaba, Mato Grosso, Brazil								11							Sport Sciences	WOS:000879493200015	34	Article; Article		
J	Baron, Jakub; Gupta, Subir; Bieniec, Anna; Klich, Grzegorz; Gabrys, Tomasz; Swinarew, Andrzej Szymon; Svatora, Karel; Stanula, Arkadiusz								The Effects of Two Different Rest Intervals on the Repeated Skating Ability of Ice Hockey Forwards and Defensemen								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				84	1			216	223		10.2478/hukin-2022-0102			NOV 8 2022	2022	The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effects of two different rest intervals (2 min and 3 min), between two consecutive sets of repeated sprint skating ability (RSSA) tests, on the repeated sprint ability of ice hockey Forwards and Defensemen. Two protocols of RSSA tests, RSSA-2 and RSSA-3, were completed by 16 ice hockey Forwards and 8 Defensemen. Defensemen were heavier (p < 0.05) than Forwards, although their % body fat did not differ significantly. In RSSA-2, athletes performed six sets of 3x80 m sprint skating with 2 min passive recovery between two consecutive sets. In RSSA-3, the rest interval between the sets was 3 min. Average speed, average heart rate (HRaver), blood lactate concentration ([BLa]), and the rate of perceived exertion (RPE) were measured in both RSSA-2 and RSSA-3 tests. Both Forwards and Defensemen skated faster in RSSA-3 than in the corresponding set of RSSA-2. Forwards were faster than Defensemen in both the tests, however, the difference was significant (p < 0.05) only in RSSA-2. In Forwards and Defensemen, HRaver increased gradually from set 1 through set 6 in RSSA-2 and RSSA-3. In most of the sets, RPE was higher in RSSA-2 than in RSSA-3, and Defensemen perceived higher exertion than Forwards. No difference in [BLa] was noted between Forwards and Defensemen, although players of both positions showed higher [BLa] in RSSA-3 than in RSSA-2. This study concludes that (1) Forwards skate faster than Defensemen, (2) average heart rate and [BLa] do not vary between Forwards and Defensemen, and (3) a higher perceived exertion is observed in Defensemen than Forwards during repeated sprint skating tests		[Baron, Jakub; Bieniec, Anna; Stanula, Arkadiusz] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ, Inst Sport Sci, Katowice, Poland; [Gupta, Subir] Univ West Indies, Fac Med Sci, Cave Hill Campus, Wanstead, Barbados; [Klich, Grzegorz] Zaglebie Sosnowiec Hockey Club, Sosnowiec, Poland; [Gabrys, Tomasz; Svatora, Karel] Univ West Bohemia, Fac Pedag, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Plzen, Czech Republic; [Swinarew, Andrzej Szymon] Univ Silesia Katowice, Fac Sci & Technol, Chorzow, Poland; [Svatora, Karel] Charles Univ Prague, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Dept Kinanthropol & Humanities, Prague, Czech Republic; [Stanula, Arkadiusz] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ, Ul Mikolowska 72A, PL-40065 Katowice, Poland								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:000879493200022	22	Article; Article		
J	Shi, Lin; Lyons, Mark; Duncan, Michael; Chen, Sitong; Chen, Zhenxiang; Guo, Wei; Han, Dong								Effects of Variable Resistance Training within Complex Training on Neuromuscular Adaptations in Collegiate Basketball Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				84	1			174	183		10.2478/hukin-2022-0094			NOV 8 2022	2022	The aim of this study was to investigate the differences in neuromuscular performance between variable resistance training and constant resistance training within complex training. Twenty-one well-trained collegiate basketball players were randomly assigned to either an experimental group (variable resistance training) or a control group (constant resistance training) and completed a twice weekly training program over an 8-week period. Training programs were the same except that the experimental group included variable resistance via elastic bands (40% of the total load). Maximum strength, vertical jump, horizontal jump, and sprint performance were assessed pre- and post-intervention. Both groups demonstrated significant increases in the back squat 1RM (experimental group +36.5% and control group +32.3%, both p < 0.001), countermovement jump (experimental group +12.9%, p = 0.002 and control group +5.6%, p = 0.02), and squat jump performance (experimental group +21.4% and control group +12.9%, both p < 0.001), whereas standing broad jump performance improved only in the experimental group (+2.9%, p = 0.029). Additionally, the experimental group showed significant improvement in the squat jump (p = 0.014) compared with the control group. However, no statistically significant differences were found between groups for countermovement jump (p = 0.06) and sprint performance at 10 m (p = 0.153) and 20 m (p = 0.076). We may conclude that both training modalities showed similar improvements in maximum strength. Performing variable resistance training within a complex training program is more efficient to enhance selective power performance in well-trained collegiate basketball players.		[Shi, Lin; Chen, Zhenxiang; Guo, Wei; Han, Dong] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Phys Educ & Sport Training, 399 Changhai St, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Lyons, Mark] Univ Limerick, Sport & Human Performance Res Ctr, Limerick, Ireland; [Duncan, Michael] Coventry Univ, Ctr Sport Exercise & Life Sci, Coventry, W Midlands, England; [Chen, Sitong] Victoria Univ, Inst Hlth & Sport, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Han, Dong] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Phys Educ & Sport Training, 399 Changhai St, Shanghai, Peoples R China								19							Sport Sciences	WOS:000879493200018	32	Article; Article		
J	Kim, Sung Eun; Lee, Jangyun; Lee, Sae Yong; Lee, Hae-Dong; Lee, Sung-Cheol; Shim, Jae Kun								Golf swing in response to anteroposterior ball position								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	5			1639	1648		10.1177/17479541221137672			OCT 2023	2023	Studies for effective golf coaching such as providing a causal relationship between the address posture and golf-swing behaviors are limited. This study investigated the effects of ball position on golf-swing behaviors. Twenty professional golfers performed golf swing at five different anteroposterior (forward/backward) ball positions: reference ball position (R0) and +/- 2.14 cm (golf ball radius) and +/- 4.17 cm (golf ball diameter) to the R0. Their swings were captured using a motion capture system with two force platforms. Statistical parametric mapping was used to compare the ground reaction forces and swing kinematics for different ball positions. The backward (closer to the golfer) ball positions were associated with more extended trunk, knee, and ankle angles in the sagittal plane during the entire golf swing (from address to impact) compared to that of the R0. The backward ball positions were generally associated with decreased horizontal ground reaction forces and pelvis and X-factor angles in the transverse plane during the downswing compared to that of the R0. Whereas, these patterns were reversed for the forward ball positions. These results demonstrate the value of ball position for coaching methods including the importance of a consistent ball position and reveal a consistent human control system for professionals which can provide valuable information for modeling the features of a digitized coaching tool.		[Kim, Sung Eun; Lee, Sae Yong; Lee, Hae-Dong; Lee, Sung-Cheol] Yonsei Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Seoul, South Korea; [Kim, Sung Eun; Lee, Hae-Dong; Lee, Sung-Cheol] Yonsei Univ, Frontier Res Inst Convergence Sports Sci, Seoul, South Korea; [Lee, Jangyun] Dongguk Univ Ilsan Hosp, Dept Orthoped Surg, Goyangsi, Gyeonggi Do, South Korea; [Lee, Jangyun] Seoul Natl Univ, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Coll Med, Seoul, South Korea; [Lee, Sae Yong] Yonsei Univ, Yonsei Inst Sports Sci & Exercise Med, Seoul, South Korea; [Shim, Jae Kun] Univ Maryland, Dept Kinesiol, College Pk, MD 20742 USA; [Shim, Jae Kun] Univ Maryland, Neurosci & Cognit Sci Program, College Pk, MD 20742 USA; [Shim, Jae Kun] Univ Maryland, Maryland Robot Ctr, College Pk, MD 20742 USA; [Shim, Jae Kun] Kyung Hee Univ, Dept Mech Engn, Yongin, Gyeonggi Do, South Korea; [Lee, Sung-Cheol] 321 Sports Sci Complex,50 Yonsei Ro, Seoul 03722, South Korea; [Shim, Jae Kun] Univ Maryland, 0110F Sch Publ Hlth Bldg 255,4200 Valley Dr, College Pk, MD 20742 USA								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000882769100001	34	Article; Article		
J	Ismail, Shariman Ismadi; Nunome, Hiroyuki; Lysdal, Filip Gertz; Kersting, Uwe Gustav; Tamura, Yuji								Futsal playing surface characteristics significantly affect perceived traction and change of direction performance among experienced futsal players								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2022.2143415				2022	We aimed to clarify the effect of different futsal playing surface structural properties on the resultant change of direction (COD) performance, perceived traction and frictional properties. Twenty experienced male university soccer players performed a COD slalom-course test and perceived traction evaluation on three different types of playing surfaces (area-elastic: AE, point-elastic no.1: PE1 and point-elastic no.2: PE2). Frictional properties of these surfaces were mechanically evaluated against a futsal shoe, using a hydraulic moving force platform, and expressed as available friction coefficient (AFC). In the COD performance test, the participants performed significantly better on the point-elastic surfaces (PE1 and PE2) when compared to the area-elastic surface (AE) (p < 0.05). Also, the PE2 surface was found to have the highest perceived traction (p < 0.001). The findings suggest that the relatively higher (4%) AFC explains the improvement in performance and traction perception on the PE2 surface. In this study, we successfully demonstrated that the structural difference (AE or PE) of futsal playing surface has a significant impact on the COD performance of experienced futsal players and their perceived level of traction (PE2) and the frictional properties.		[Ismail, Shariman Ismadi] Univ Teknol MARA, Fac Sports Sci & Recreat, Shah Alam, Malaysia; [Nunome, Hiroyuki; Tamura, Yuji] Fukuoka Univ, Fac Sports & Hlth Sci, Fukuoka, Japan; [Lysdal, Filip Gertz; Kersting, Uwe Gustav] Aalborg Univ, Dept Hlth Sci & Technol, Sport Sci, Aalborg, Denmark; [Kersting, Uwe Gustav] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Biomech & Orthopaed, Cologne, Germany; [Ismail, Shariman Ismadi] Univ Teknol MARA, Fac Sports Sci & Recreat, Shah Alam, Malaysia								3							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000879719700001	37	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Turner, Mitchell; Beranek, Philipp; Lo, Johnny; Ferrauti, Alexander; Dunican, Ian C.; Cruickshank, Travis								Does time of day and player chronotype impact tennis-specific skills and physical performance?								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	1			315	322		10.1177/17479541221136023			FEB 2024	2024	Tennis players' success relies on tennis skills, such as groundstrokes and serves, and physical attributes, such as strength, speed and endurance. This study aimed to determine if players' tennis skills and physical attributes are influenced by time of day, chronotype or sleep-wake behaviour (SWB). Twelve male tennis players (age (years): 28.17 +/- 7.85) competing in state-level competitions wore a wrist-worn activity monitor (GT3X, Actigraph) and completed a modified version of the Consensus Sleep Diary to measure SWB. The Chalder Fatigue Scale and Morningness and Eveningness Questionnaire were used to measure players' fatigue and preferred chronotype. Mid-sleep with a sleep correction was used to determine players' current chronotype. After the baseline period, players were tested at 8:00 am, 2:00 pm and 8:00 pm, with the order of testing sessions randomised for each player. Testing sessions were separated by at least 48 hours. Players' groundstrokes, serve speed, agility, overhead medicine ball throw and Hit and Turn Test performance were measured in each session. General linear modelling revealed that backhand consistency was less in the evening compared to the morning by 17% (p = 0.020) and afternoon by 15% (p = 0.040). Maximal service velocity was less in the evening compared to the afternoon by 10.5 km/h (p = 0.041). Chronotype did not influence tennis skills or physical performance. Average and maximal backhand velocities were reduced for every hour that time at lights out, and sleep-onset time was postponed. Tennis skills, but not physical performance tests, were influenced by time of day and SWB.		[Turner, Mitchell; Beranek, Philipp; Dunican, Ian C.; Cruickshank, Travis] Edith Cowan Univ, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, 270 Joondalup Dr, Perth, WA 6027, Australia; [Lo, Johnny] Edith Cowan Univ, Sch Sci, Perth, WA, Australia; [Ferrauti, Alexander] Ruhr Univ Bochum, Fac Sport Sci, Bochum, Germany; [Dunican, Ian C.] Univ Western Australia, Ctr Sleep Sci, Sch Human Sci, Perth, WA, Australia; [Cruickshank, Travis] Edith Cowan Univ, Ctr Precis Hlth, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, Perth, WA, Australia; [Cruickshank, Travis] Perron Inst Neurol & Translat Sci, Perth, WA, Australia; [Turner, Mitchell] Edith Cowan Univ, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, 270 Joondalup Dr, Perth, WA 6027, Australia								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000877854200001	39	Article; Article		
J	Ettema, Gertjan; Haug, Aurora; Ludvigsen, Tonje Pedersen; Danielsen, Jorgen								The role of stroke rate and intensity on rowing technique								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2022.2135457				2022	We investigated the notion that ergometer rowing technique at different intensities, but self-chosen stroke rates (SR) would resemble each other more than when rowing at other intensity-SR combinations. Twelve competitive male rowers performed ergometer rowing at three intensities x three SR, including the self-chosen one. Kinetics were recorded and inverse dynamics applied to estimate joint powers. Our results indicate strong effects of intensity and SR on most kinetic variables (e.g., drive length, time and velocity, recovery time, work per stroke). These effects were hardly reduced when only considering the preferred SR-intensity combinations, except for time profiles of elbow, shoulder, and hip joint powers. SR was mostly regulated by adapting recovery time, leaving drive time and its kinetics mostly affected by intensity. SR and intensity had marginal effects on relative joint power. Kinetics of drive only are largely independent of intensity and SR instruction. Still, this kinetic resemblance is strongest at preferred SR. We conclude that, given a fixed resistance, work rate is mostly steered through SR: Work per stroke is 'set' for the given power requirement. A necessary additional large adjustment in stroke rate is done mostly by modifying recovery time.		[Ettema, Gertjan; Haug, Aurora; Ludvigsen, Tonje Pedersen; Danielsen, Jorgen] Norwegian Univ Sci & Technol, Fac Med & Hlth Sci, Dept Neuromed & Movement Sci, Ctr Elite Sports Res, Trondheim, Norway; [Ettema, Gertjan] Norwegian Univ Sci & Technol, Fac Med & Hlth Sci, Dept Neuromed & Movement Sci, Ctr Elite Sports Res, Trondheim, Norway								12							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000874739400001	26	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Fridley, Alison; Anderson, Austin; Stokowski, Sarah; Forsythe, Stacey A.								Diversity matters: highlighting the differences in sport consumption motives of marginalized college students								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				24	3			485	499		10.1108/IJSMS-01-2022-0025			JUL 31 2023	2023	Purpose The purpose of this study was to explore the differences in motivation for sport consumption within a diverse sample of college students with underrepresented identities. Design/methodology/approach Data were collected from 2,833 students at universities in a mid-major Division I FBS athletic conference through a survey. Two MANOVAs were conducted to examine group differences. While the first MANOVA compared a dominant group (White and non-LGBTQ+) to an underrepresented group (non-white race and/or LGBTQ+), the second MANOVA explored differences in five specific marginalized groups (Asian, Black or African American, Hispanic or Latino, LGBTQ+, intersectional marginalized identities). Findings The results indicated that the dominant group scored significantly higher than the combined underrepresented group in four of the eight sport consumption motives examined. However, the comparison of individual underrepresented groups showed significant differences for all eight consumption motives between at least two underrepresented groups. Originality/value This study is the first attempt to compare group differences in motivation for sport consumption between specific racially marginalized groups, LGBTQ + community members, and intersectional racial and LGBTQ + identities within college athletics.		[Fridley, Alison] Univ Southern Mississippi, Hattiesburg, MS 39406 USA; [Anderson, Austin] Univ North Texas, Denton, TX 76203 USA; [Stokowski, Sarah] Clemson Univ, Clemson, SC USA; [Forsythe, Stacey A.] Western Kentucky Univ, Bowling Green, KY 42101 USA; [Fridley, Alison] Univ Southern Mississippi, Hattiesburg, MS 39406 USA								8							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000870746800001	1	Article; Article		
J	Turner, Travis W.; Kaar, Scott G.								Time to return to school following ACL reconstruction: influence of the COVID-19 pandemic								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				51	6			558	563		10.1080/00913847.2022.2136983			NOV 2 2023	2023	Introduction ACL reconstruction is commonly performed in school-aged patients for whom missed time from school can have an impact on their education. Additionally, the COVID-19 pandemic has led to different ways of accessing school content. We sought to determine how many days of school school-aged patients should expect to miss following ACL reconstruction and how the availability of remote learning during the COVID-19 pandemic affected this. Methods We evaluated 53 ACL reconstruction patients in grades 7-12 undergoing surgery during the school year. Demographic, medical, and educational information were collected. Patients were placed into 1 of 2 cohorts: Group A (surgery before the COVID-19 pandemic) or Group B (surgery during the COVID-19 pandemic). We calculated days missed from school after surgery until return to either virtual or in-person school. Results Overall, patients returned to school after missing an average of 4.4 (SD, 3.0) days of school after ACL reconstruction surgery. Patients in Group A missed an average of 5.5 (SD, 2.9) school days, while patients in Group B missed an average of 2.3 (SD, 1.4) school days (p <.001). Eighty-nine percent of Group B patients first returned to school utilizing a virtual option. Among those returning virtually, these patients missed an average of 1.9 (SD, 0.9) school days. Conclusions A virtual distance learning option results in fewer missed days of school post ACL reconstruction. When given this option, school-aged patients can expect to return to school within two days post-op. Otherwise, patients should expect to miss about one week of in-person schooling. In this regard, the COVID-19 pandemic has positively impacted educational opportunities for students post-surgery, and physicians should advocate for continuing virtual options for students receiving medical treatment.		[Turner, Travis W.; Kaar, Scott G.] St Louis Univ, Dept Orthopaed Surg, St Louis, MO USA; [Kaar, Scott G.] St Louis Univ, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Sch Med, 1008 S Spring Ave, St Louis, MO 63110 USA								1							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000870895000001	16	Article; Article		
J	Lally, Erin Marie; Thorpe, Jennifer; Ericksen, Hayley; Earl-Boehm, Jennifer								Reliability and criterion validity of two-dimensional movement assessments in those with patellofemoral pain								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				58				134	140		10.1016/j.ptsp.2022.10.008			NOV 2022	2022	Objectives: Determine criterion validity and intra/inter-rater reliability of 2-dimensional (2D) knee frontal plane projection angle (kFPPA), hip frontal plane projection angle (hFPPA), and dynamic valgus index (DVI) during forward step-downs in those with patellofemoral pain (PFP).Design: Cross-sectional.Setting: University research laboratory.Participants: 39 participants with PFP (34.18 +/- 7.41years, 170 +/- .1 cm, 81.03 +/- 19.36 kg, duration of pain: 68.67 +/- 85.08months, anterior knee pain scale: 80.49 +/- 7.87, visual analog scale:2.08 +/- 2.02)Main outcome measures: Average 3D hip and knee sagittal, frontal, and transverse joint angles and 2D kFPPA, hFPPA, and DVI at maximum knee flexion were variables of interest. 3D DVI was calculated as the sum of hip and knee frontal and transverse angles. 2D kFPPA, hFPPA, and DVI were calculated by two raters independently on two occasions.Results: Intra-and inter-rater reliability of all 2D angles were excellent. kFPPA was moderately correlated to 3D knee transverse angles. hFPPA was moderately correlated to 3D hip frontal and transverse angles and largely correlated to 3D DVI. 2D DVI was moderately correlated to hip transverse angles.Conclusion: kFPPA, hFPPA, and DVI are reliable. hFPPA may be reflective of 3D hip and knee frontal and transverse motion during forward step-downs in those with PFP.Published by Elsevier Ltd.		[Lally, Erin Marie; Ericksen, Hayley; Earl-Boehm, Jennifer] Univ Wisconsin, 3409 Downer Ave, Milwaukee, WI 53211 USA; [Thorpe, Jennifer] Concordia Univ, 12800 N Lake Shore Dr, Mequon, WI 53097 USA; [Lally, Erin Marie] Univ Wisconsin, 3409 Downer Ave, Milwaukee, WI 53211 USA								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000877591900017	34	Article; Article		
J	de Lacerda, Angelica Palitot Dias; de Andrade, Palloma Rodrigues; Kamonseki, Danilo Harudy; Parizotto, Nivaldo Antonio; Silvaa, Arielson Santos Alves; de Medeiros, Luanny Bernardo; Ferreira, Jose Jamacy de Almeida								Accuracy of infrared thermography in detecting tendinopathy: A systematic review with meta-analysis								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				58				117	125		10.1016/j.ptsp.2022.10.005			NOV 2022	2022	Objective: To systematically review the literature on diagnosis of tendinopathy using infrared ther-mography (IT). Methods: This is a systematic review that followed the recommendations of PRISMA. The databases Medline, PEDro, SciELO, Embase, CENTRAL, and CINAHL were searched from inception up to December 2021. Two reviewers independently selected studies that investigated the use of IT to identify tendinopathy. The risk of bias of the included studies was assessed with QUADAS-2 tool. Data synthesis was performed through the analysis of sensitivity, specificity, summary ROC curve (SROC), and diagnostic odds ratio (DOR). Results: Seven studies were included in the meta-analyses, which showed that the IT has an overall sensitivity of 72%, specificity of 95%, DOR of 75.94, and SROC of 97%. Sensitivity analysis indicated that IT showed sensitivity of 93% and 63%, specificity of 97% and 100%, and DOR of 221.38 and 60.71 for lateral epicondylitis and shoulder tendinopathy, respectively. Conclusion: The IT showed adequate accuracy to detect tendon injuries, with high specificity in the evaluation of lateral epi-condylitis and shoulder tendinopathy.(c) 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[de Lacerda, Angelica Palitot Dias; de Andrade, Palloma Rodrigues; Kamonseki, Danilo Harudy; Silvaa, Arielson Santos Alves; de Medeiros, Luanny Bernardo; Ferreira, Jose Jamacy de Almeida] Univ Fed Paraiba, UFPB, Joao Pessoa, PB, Brazil; [Parizotto, Nivaldo Antonio] Univ Brazil, Inst Pesquisas Biomed, Fernandopolis, Brazil; [Ferreira, Jose Jamacy de Almeida] Univ Fed Paraiba, Dept Phys Therapy, UFPB, Campus 1,Bloco Arnaldo Tavares,Cidade Univ, BR-58051900 Joao Pessoa, PB, Brazil; [Ferreira, Jose Jamacy de Almeida] Univ Fed Paraiba, Dept Phys Therapy, UFPB, Campus 1,Bloco Arnaldo Tavares,Cidade Univ, BR-58051900 Joao Pessoa, PB, Brazil								21							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000877591900015	34	Article; Article		
J	Dupre, Thomas; Potthast, Wolfgang								Are sprint accelerations related to groin injuries? A biomechanical analysis of adolescent soccer players								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2022.2133740				2022	Groin injuries have one of the highest incidences in soccer and can be career threatening, especially for adolescents, due to their high recurrence rate. Quick accelerations have been connected to groin injuries along with kicking and change of directions. Purpose of this study was to examine the hip joint kinematics, kinetics and the muscle forces of adductor longus and gracilis during first ground contact of a linear sprint acceleration performed by adolescent soccer players. Twenty-two male participants were investigated with 3D motion capture and two force plates. Inverse dynamics were used to calculate the kinematics, kinetics and muscle forces. The kinematics show a constant extension during the stance phase and a quick transition from an abduction to an adduction movement at 90% stance, which coincides with the highest forces in adductor longus and gracilis. This indicates a high load on the adductor muscles due to eccentric contractions combined with high muscle forces in the adductors. Compared to previously investigated inside passing and change of direction movements, adductor muscle forces and angular velocities are higher in this study. Therefore, it is suggested that sprint accelerations are likely to be connected to the development of groin injuries in adolescent soccer players.		[Dupre, Thomas; Potthast, Wolfgang] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Biomech & Orthoped, Cologne, Germany; [Dupre, Thomas] Olymp Training Ctr Rhineland Palatinate Saarland, Dept Exercise Sci, Mainz, Germany; [Dupre, Thomas] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Biomech & Orthoped, Cologne, Germany; [Dupre, Thomas] Olymp Training Ctr Rhineland Palatinate Saarland, Dept Exercise Sci, Mainz, Germany								8							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000870181800001	44	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Propheter, Geoffrey								Sports Facilities as a Housing Amenity: Do Prices Follow Facilities?								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				24	4			443	474		10.1177/15270025221132221			MAY 2023	2023	The sports facility amenity theory predicts that when facility sites change, home prices nearer the prior site decline while home prices nearer the new site increase. Using home sales data in the vicinity of two proposed facility sites for the Golden State Warriors in San Francisco, the data are generally supportive of the amenity theory. The study also shows that Euclidean and walking distance can yield dissimilar treatment effect sizes, thus compelling researchers to justify their distance measurement choice. Finally, the data provide weak support that home buyers respond to changes in facility re-designs towards increased public benefits.		[Propheter, Geoffrey] Univ Colorado, Sch Publ Affairs, 1380 Lawrence St,Ste 500, Denver, CO 80204 USA; [Propheter, Geoffrey] Univ Colorado, Sch Publ Affairs, 1380 Lawrence St,Ste 500, Denver, CO 80204 USA								6							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000868862900001	40	Article; Article		
J	Critchley, Meghan L.; Ferber, Reed; Pasanen, Kati; Kenny, Sarah J.								Injury epidemiology in pre-professional ballet dancers: A 5-year prospective cohort study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				58				93	99		10.1016/j.ptsp.2022.10.001			NOV 2022	2022	Introduction: Pre-professional ballet dancers are at high-risk for injury, with injury rates ranging from 1.4 to 4.7 injuries/1000 dance-hours. In dance injury epidemiology, multi-year studies are limited, and findings are inconsistent. Thus, the extent to which injury estimates range from year to year in a pre -professional ballet program is currently unknown.Objective: The aim of this study was to establish the extent and characteristics of injuries in pre -professional adolescent ballet dancers across five academic training years.Methods: 452 female and male pre-professional ballet dancers (median age, 15 years; range, 11-20 years) participated across five academic years at a vocational ballet school. Participants completed an online weekly injury questionnaire (OSTRC-Q) and self-reported dance hours questionnaire.Results: Questionnaire response was 91.4%. Depending on the definition of injury, yearly injury preva-lence ranged from 32.1% (145/452; time-loss) to 67.4% (305/452; all-complaints) across the 5 years. Yearly injury rates ranged from 0.76 (95%CI: 0.66, 0.86; time-loss) to 2.54 (95%CI: 2.37, 2.73; all -complaints) per 1000 dance-hours. The ankle was the most reported injury location (range: 16-33%).Conclusions: Injury prevalence and injury rate estimates remained high across five academic years in a pre-professional ballet population. Injury estimates were highest when an all-complaints definition was employed. Level of evidence: Therapy/Prevention, Aetiology/Harm, level 2b.(c) 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Critchley, Meghan L.; Pasanen, Kati; Kenny, Sarah J.] Univ Calgary, Fac Kinesiol, Sport Injury Prevent Res Ctr, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Critchley, Meghan L.; Pasanen, Kati; Kenny, Sarah J.] Univ Calgary, Alberta Childrens Hosp, Res Inst, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Ferber, Reed] Univ Calgary, Fac Kinesiol, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Ferber, Reed] Univ Calgary, Running Injury Clin, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Ferber, Reed] Univ Calgary, Fac Nursing, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Critchley, Meghan L.; Ferber, Reed; Pasanen, Kati] Univ Calgary, McCaig Inst Bone & Joint Hlth, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Critchley, Meghan L.; Kenny, Sarah J.] Univ Calgary, OBrien Inst Publ Hlth, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Pasanen, Kati] UKK Inst, Tampere Res Ctr Sports Med, Tampere, Finland; [Kenny, Sarah J.] Univ Calgary, Fac Arts, Sch Creat & Performing Arts, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Critchley, Meghan L.] 2500 Univ Dr NW, Calgary, AB T2N 1N4, Canada; [Critchley, Meghan L.] 2500 Univ Dr NW, Calgary, AB T2N 1N4, Canada								25							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000877591900012	30	Article; Article		
J	Inami, Takayuki; Yamaguchi, Shota; Ishida, Hiroyuki; Kohtake, Naohiko; Morito, Akihisa; Yamada, Satoshi; Shimomasuda, Masatsugu; Haramoto, Maki; Nagata, Naoya; Murayama, Mitsuyoshi								Changes in Muscle Shear Modulus and Urinary Titin N-Terminal Fragment after Eccentric Exercise								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				21	4			536	544		10.52082/jssm.2022.536			DEC 2022	2022	This study aimed to investigate the relationship between the muscle shear modulus of the biceps brachii, urinary titin N-terminal fragment (UTF), and other damage markers after eccentric exercise. Seventeen healthy males performed five sets of ten eccentric exercises with dumbbells weighing 50% of the maximum voluntary contraction (MVC) at the elbow joint. Muscle shear modulus with range of interest set to only biceps brachii muscle measured by ultrasound shear wave elastography, UTF, MVC, range of motion (ROM), and soreness (SOR) were recorded before, immediately after, and 1, 24, 48, 72, 96, and 168 h after eccentric exercise. Each marker changed in a time course pattern, as found in previous studies. The peak shear modulus showed a moderate negative correlation with peak MVC (r = -0.531, P < 0.05) and a strong positive correlation with peak UTF (r = 0.707, P < 0.01). Our study results revealed a significant relationship between muscle strength, shear modulus measured by ultrasound SWE, and titin measured by UTF, as a non-invasive damage marker after eccentric exercise to track changes in EIMD.		[Inami, Takayuki; Yamaguchi, Shota; Nagata, Naoya; Murayama, Mitsuyoshi] Keio Univ, Inst Phys Educ, Tokyo, Japan; [Ishida, Hiroyuki] Keio Univ, Sports Med Res Ctr, Tokyo, Japan; [Kohtake, Naohiko; Morito, Akihisa] Keio Univ, Grad Sch Syst Design Management, Tokyo, Japan; [Morito, Akihisa; Yamada, Satoshi; Shimomasuda, Masatsugu; Haramoto, Maki] Taisho Pharmaceut Co Ltd, Tokyo, Japan; [Inami, Takayuki] Keio Univ, Inst Phys Educ, 4 1 1, Hiyoshi, Yokohama 2238521, Japan; [Inami, Takayuki] Keio Univ, Inst Phys Educ, 4 1 1, Hiyoshi, Yokohama 2238521, Japan								7							Sport Sciences	WOS:000877843500001	35	Article; Article		
J	de Swart, Anne F. M. J.; van Trigt, Bart; Wasserberger, Kyle; Hoozemans, Marco J. M.; Veeger, DirkJan H. E. J.; Oliver, Gretchen D.								Energy flow through the lower extremities in high school baseball pitching								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2022.2129430				2022	It is generally accepted that most of the energy transferred to the ball during a baseball pitch is generated in the trunk and lower extremities. Therefore, purpose of this study was to assess the energy flow through the lower extremities during a baseball pitch. It was hypothesised that the (stabilising) leading leg mainly transfers energy in a distal-to-proximal order as a kinetic chain while the (driving) trailing leg generates most energy, primarily at the hip. A joint power analysis was used to determine the rates of energy (power) transfer and generation in the ankles, knees, hips and lumbosacral joint (L5-S1) for 22 youth pitchers. Analyses showed that the leading leg mainly transfers energy upwards in a distal-to-proximal order just before stride foot contact. Furthermore, energy generation was higher in the trailing leg and primarily arose from the trailing hip. In conclusion, the legs contribute differently to the energy flow where the leading leg acts as an initial kinetic chain component and the trailing leg drives the pitch by generating energy. The actions of both legs are combined in the pelvis and passed on to the subsequent, more commonly discussed, open kinetic chain starting at L5-S1.		[de Swart, Anne F. M. J.; van Trigt, Bart; Hoozemans, Marco J. M.] Vrije Univ Amsterdam, Fac Behav & Movement Sci, Dept Human Movement Sci, Amsterdam Movement Sci, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [de Swart, Anne F. M. J.; van Trigt, Bart; Veeger, DirkJan H. E. J.] Delft Univ Technol, Dept Biomech Engn, Delft, Netherlands; [Wasserberger, Kyle; Oliver, Gretchen D.] Auburn Univ, Sch Kinesiol, Sports Med & Movement Lab, Auburn, AL USA; [Wasserberger, Kyle] Driveline Baseball, Res & Dev, Kent, WA USA; [van Trigt, Bart] Vrije Univ Amsterdam, Fac Behav & Movement Sci, Dept Human Movement Sci, Amsterdam Movement Sci, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [van Trigt, Bart] Delft Univ Technol, Dept Biomech Engn, Delft, Netherlands								18							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000867499700001	30	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Tanaka, Yousuke; Ishida, Tomoya; Ino, Takumi; Suzumori, Yuki; Samukawa, Mina; Kasahara, Satoshi; Tohyama, Harukazu								The effects of relative trunk rotation velocity on ball speed and elbow and shoulder joint torques during baseball pitching								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2022.2129431				2022	In baseball pitching, suppressing trunk rotation while rotating the pelvis in the early phase of arm cocking is important for throwing a fast ball. However, quantitative evaluation of trunk rotation during pitching has not been established, and its associations with elbow and shoulder torques are unclear. The purpose of this study was to examine the correlation of a new measure of trunk rotation suppression with ball speed and elbow and shoulder torques during pitching. Eighteen adult male baseball pitchers (21.7 +/- 1.2 years old) participated. Three qualified pitches were analysed using a three-dimensional motion capture system. Trunk rotation velocity, normalised to the peak velocity, was derived at the time of peak pelvic velocity. Pearson's correlation coefficient was used to determine correlations. The normalised trunk rotation velocity at the peak pelvic velocity was significantly correlated with elbow valgus torque (R = -0.508, P = 0.032), shoulder external rotation torque (R = -0.507, P = 0.032) and ball speed (R = -0.504, P = 0.033). A smaller normalised trunk rotation angular velocity at the time of peak pelvic rotation velocity could increase ball speed but may also increase elbow and shoulder torques among pitchers who demonstrate trunk rotation after foot contact.		[Tanaka, Yousuke; Ishida, Tomoya; Suzumori, Yuki; Samukawa, Mina; Kasahara, Satoshi; Tohyama, Harukazu] Hokkaido Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, Sapporo, Hokkaido, Japan; [Ino, Takumi] Hokkaido Univ Sci, Fac Hlth Sci, Sapporo, Hokkaido, Japan; [Ishida, Tomoya] Hokkaido Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, Sapporo, Hokkaido, Japan								6							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000866356100001	42	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Foley, Jordan K.; Erickson, Karl T.; McGowan, Erin L.; Behm, David G.								Demographics of Canadian strength and conditioning coaches								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	2			392	402		10.1177/17479541221131950			APR 2023	2023	Canadian strength and conditioning (S&C) coaches demographic characteristics are unknown but are necessary to assess the current state of the field. A sample of 215 Canadian S&C coaches were recruited through the Canadian Strength and Conditioning Association's newsletter, the National Strength and Conditioning Association's (NSCA) Canadian Facebook group, and the principal investigator's professional network. Mean age of the sample was 34.1 years (+/- 8.6) years, 77.7% were male, and 90.7% did not consider themselves to be a visible minority. Participants most commonly reported working in the private sector (34.9%), at a university (19.1%), and with provincial or national sport organizations (19.1%). The most common salary range reported was $40,001-$50,000 and $50,001-$60,000 (Canadian dollars) at 13.5% each. The most common certifications reported by Canadian S&C coaches was the NSCA-Certified Strength and Conditioning Specialist (CSCS) (84.4%). The highest education obtained was reported as Bachelor's (54.9%) and Master's degrees (37.8%), and 83.6% reported having degrees directly related to the field of S&C. The archetype demographics of Canadian S&C coaches presented as mid-thirties, male, non-visible minority, with a Bachelor's degree, and the NSCA-CSCS certification. The definition of these characteristics will inform future Canadian S&C coaches, mentors, and inform future research in this area.		[Foley, Jordan K.; McGowan, Erin L.; Behm, David G.] Mem Univ Newfoundland, Sch Human Kinet & Recreat, St John, NL A1M 3L8, Canada; [Erickson, Karl T.] York Univ, Sch Kinesiol & Hlth Sci, Toronto, ON, Canada; [Behm, David G.] Mem Univ Newfoundland, Sch Human Kinet & Recreat, St John, NL A1M 3L8, Canada								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000866192400001	14	Article; Article		
J	Fukushima, Toshihiko; Nishikawa, Satoshi; Kuniyoshi, Yasuo								Active pole bending effect in pole support phase								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2022.2129087				2022	In pole vaulting, model analysis is one of the key methods to increase vaulting height. To date, the effects of athletes' motions during 'pole support phase' have been measured and modelled to improve and set new world records. The motions were extracted based on the context of pole bending interaction and parameters to improve vaulting height were investigated. However, due to experimental, mechanical, and sensing restrictions, ranges and interactions of the parameters were poorly addressed. To investigate further, a parameter space must be globally explored. Here, we show parameter sensitivities and interactive effects between initial velocity, pole length, bending amplitude and switching time. From the simulation studies, we found that active pole bending enabled successful pole vaulting with lower initial velocity and longer poles. Vaulting height had a local maximum point at a specific initial velocity and positive bending could control conditions to deliver the local maximum height. Positive bending controls the rising-up speed of the pole and contributes to the verticalisation of the vaulting angle. Negative bending increases the vaulting speed and contributes to the robustness of the vaulting angle. Our results demonstrate how these parameters affect the vaulting performances and suggest how athletes should activate their bodies.		[Fukushima, Toshihiko] Univ Tokyo, Grad Sch Interdisciplinary Informat Studies, Tokyo, Japan; [Nishikawa, Satoshi; Kuniyoshi, Yasuo] Univ Tokyo, Grad Sch Informat Sci & Technol, Tokyo, Japan; [Fukushima, Toshihiko] Max Planck Inst Intelligent Syst, Stuttgart, Germany; [Nishikawa, Satoshi] Kyushu Univ, Fukuoka, Japan; [Fukushima, Toshihiko] Univ Tokyo, Grad Sch Interdisciplinary Informat Studies, Tokyo, Japan								4							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000866045400001	33	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Faga, Joshua; Bishop, Chris; Maloney, Sean J.								Does size matter? Effects of small versus large pitch small-sided game training on speed and endurance in collegiate soccer players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	6			2033	2043		10.1177/17479541221126955			DEC 2023	2023	The aim of this study was to compare the training effect of small-sided games played using large and small area per player on speed and endurance in college soccer players. Twenty male NCAA division 1 soccer players were randomly assigned to one of two experimental groups: small-sided games using a large area per player (n = 10), or small-sided games using a small area per player (n = 10). During the 4-week intervention, both groups performed three sets of 4-8 min of 5 versus 5 small-sided games using either a large (300 m(2)) or small (75 m(2)) area per player. Pre- and post-training, players completed linear sprint (20- and 40-m), repeated sprint, and aerobic endurance tests. Following the intervention, both groups exhibited improvements in 20-m, 40-m, and maximum sprinting speed (all p < 0.05, g = 0.04-0.29). No differences or interaction effects in repeat-sprint ability were found for either group (p > 0.05). A decline in maximal aerobic speed occurred in the small area per player group (p = 0.010, g = 0.60) whilst no change was reported for the large area per player group. Following the intervention, anaerobic speed reserve was lower for the large area per player group versus the small area per player group (p = 0.013; g = -0.23). No further between-group differences were reported at either time-point. These results suggest that small-sided games played with a small area per player may not be adequate to maintain aerobic fitness.		[Faga, Joshua; Bishop, Chris; Maloney, Sean J.] Middlesex Univ, Fac Sci & Technol, London Sport Inst, London, England; [Faga, Joshua] Marshall Univ, Fac Athlet, Huntington, WV USA; [Maloney, Sean J.] Middlesex Univ, Fac Sci & Technol, London Sport Inst, London, England								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000865855500001	55	Article; Article		
J	Forsdick, Victoria K.; Harris, Rachel; Saw, Richard; Hayman, Melanie; Buckling, Hannah; Sundgot-Borgen, Jorunn; Hughes, David; Perera, Nirmala K. Panagodage								Exploring Australian high-performance athletes' perceptions and experiences of sport participation during pregnancy and post-pregnancy: Development and test-retest reliability of the Mum-Alete Survey								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				58				80	86		10.1016/j.ptsp.2022.09.003			NOV 2022	2022	Objectives: To develop and assess the test-retest reliability of a survey exploring high-performance athletes' perceptions and experiences during and post-pregnancy. Design: Cross-sectional mixed-methods survey. Methods: A three-phase approach was employed to develop the Mum-Alete survey. Relevant domains and questions were identified through a review of the literature and gap analysis (Phase 1). The face and content validity were assessed during Phase 2. The survey was modified, and the final survey included 113 questions. The test-retest reliability was assessed during Phase 3. Seven athletes aged >= 18 years who were currently pregnant and/or given birth since 1 July 2016 were recruited. The survey was adminis-tered via Qualtrics and completed on two occasions. Intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC) were deter-mined to assess test-retest reliability (excellent, good, moderate, and poor). Results: The average ICC of all items was 0.962 (95% CI 0.957-0.966) demonstrating excellent test-retest reliability. The test-retest reliability was excellent for the demographic and general questions domain (ICC = 0.967 95% CI 0.955-0.977) and good for the exercise (ICC 0.762 95% CI 0.707-0.811), physical health (ICC 0.841 95% CI 0.810-0.868) and well-being (ICC 0.827 95% CI 0.784-0.865) domains. Conclusions: The high test-retest reliability of the survey indicates excellent consistency of measures between the two time-points. Crown Copyright (c) 2022 Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Forsdick, Victoria K.; Saw, Richard; Hughes, David; Perera, Nirmala K. Panagodage] Australian Inst Sport, AIS Clin Serv, Leverrier St, Bruce, ACT 2617, Australia; [Forsdick, Victoria K.] AAMI Pk, Olymp Pk Sports Med Ctr, 60 Olymp Blvd, Melbourne, Vic 3004, Australia; [Harris, Rachel; Buckling, Hannah] Australian Inst Sport, AIS Female Performance Hlth Initiat, Leverrier St, Bruce, ACT 2617, Australia; [Harris, Rachel] Perth Orthopaed & Sports Med Res Inst, Perth, WA 6005, Australia; [Saw, Richard; Hughes, David; Perera, Nirmala K. Panagodage] Univ Canberra, Res Inst Sport & Exercise, Bruce, ACT 2601, Australia; [Hayman, Melanie] Cent Queensland Univ, 114-190 Canning St, The Range, Qld 4700, Australia; [Buckling, Hannah] Univ Sydney, Camperdown, NSW 2006, Australia; [Sundgot-Borgen, Jorunn] Norwegian Sch Sports Sci, Sognsveien 220, N-0863 Oslo, Norway; [Forsdick, Victoria K.] AIS Sports Med, Leverrier St, Bruce, ACT 2617, Australia								3							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000877591900010	31	Article; Article		
J	Yu, Ruoni; Yang, Zonghan; Witchalls, Jeremy; Adams, Roger; Waddington, Gordon; Han, Jia								Can ankle proprioception be improved by repeated exposure to an ankle movement discrimination task requiring step-landing in individuals with and without CAI?								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				58				68	73		10.1016/j.ptsp.2022.09.004			NOV 2022	2022	Objectives: To determine whether individuals with and without Chronic Ankle Instability (CAI) can improve their ankle movement discrimination sensitivity by repeated exposure to an ankle proprio-ceptive task requiring landing.Design: A repeated-measures study. Setting: University laboratory. Participants: 24 university students, 11 with CAI and 13 without CAI.Main outcome measures: Ankle proprioception was measured using the Ankle Inversion Discrimination Apparatus for Landing (AIDAL) over 3 occasions: AIDAL-1 and AIDAL-2 separated with a 10-min interval, and AIDAL-3 at 24 h post AIDAL-2.Results: Better Cumberland Ankle Instability Tool (CAIT) questionnaire scores were correlated with higher AIDAL scores (rho = 0.465, p = 0.022). Two-way ANOVA showed a significant CAI main effect for step landing ankle inversion proprioception, with CAI worse (F = 8.410, p = 0.008), but the Time main effect across the 3 AIDAL tests was not significant (F = 1.552, p = 0.223).Conclusions: The AIDAL assessment was sensitive in terms of discriminating between individuals with or without CAI. However, the step-down component of the AIDAL proprioceptive task was possibly too challenging. For CAI, physical therapy exercises should take into account the difficulty of the training task, so that a demonstrable learning effect can be achieved.(c) 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Yu, Ruoni] Jinhua Polytech, Sch Med, Jinhua, Peoples R China; [Yang, Zonghan] Univ Melbourne, Fac Med, Melbourne, Australia; [Witchalls, Jeremy; Adams, Roger; Waddington, Gordon] Univ Canberra, Res Inst Sport & Exercise, Canberra, Australia; [Han, Jia] Shanghai Univ Med & Hlth Sci, Coll Rehabil Sci, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Han, Jia] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Exercise & Hlth, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Han, Jia] Swinburne Univ Technol, Fac Hlth Arts & Design, Hawthorn, Vic, Australia; [Han, Jia] 279 Zhouzhu Highway, Shanghai 201318, Peoples R China; [Han, Jia] Shanghai Univ Med & Hlth Sci, Coll Rehabil Sci, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Han, Jia] 279 Zhouzhu Highway, Shanghai 201318, Peoples R China								1							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000877591900008	30	Article; Article		
J	Suzuki, Makoto; Ishida, Tomoya; Matsumoto, Hisashi; Kaneko, Satoru; Inoue, Chiharu; Aoki, Yoshimitsu; Tohyama, Harukazu; Samukawa, Mina								Psychological readiness at 9 months after anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction-which factors affect?								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				58				74	79		10.1016/j.ptsp.2022.09.007			NOV 2022	2022	Objective: To investigate the association of psychological readiness at 9 months after anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction (ACLR) with knee strength and range-of-motion (ROM) at 3 and 9 months postoperatively. Design: Retrospective cohort study. Setting: Private orthopedic hospital. Participants: Seventy-eight patients after ACLR. Main outcomes measures: The participants completed the anterior cruciate ligament-return to sport after injury (ACL-RSI) scale as an assessment of psychological readiness at 9 months after ACLR. Isometric and isokinetic quadriceps and hamstring strength were measured by a dynamometer at 3 and 9 months postoperatively. Knee extension and flexion ROM were measured in 5 degrees increments with a standard goniometer at 3 and 9 months postoperatively. Results: Univariate regression analysis showed that age, limb symmetry index (LSI) of quadriceps strength at 3 and 9 months, and knee extension ROM deficit (>5 degrees) at 3 and 9 months were associated with ACL-RSI scores at 9 months (P < 0.05). Age and LSI of quadriceps strength at 3 months remained significant predictors of ACL-RSI scores at 9 months in multiple regression analysis (R2 = 0.20, P < 0.001). Conclusions: Early improvements in quadriceps strength after ACLR may have a positive impact on psychological readiness at 9 months postoperatively. (c) 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Suzuki, Makoto; Ishida, Tomoya; Tohyama, Harukazu; Samukawa, Mina] Hokkaido Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, Sapporo, Japan; [Suzuki, Makoto; Ishida, Tomoya; Matsumoto, Hisashi] Hokushin Orthopaed Hosp, Dept Rehabil, Sapporo, Japan; [Kaneko, Satoru; Inoue, Chiharu; Aoki, Yoshimitsu] Hokushin Orthopaed Hosp, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Sapporo, Japan; [Ishida, Tomoya] Hokkaido Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, West 5,North 12,Kitaku, Sapporo, Hokkaido 0600812, Japan; [Ishida, Tomoya] Hokkaido Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, West 5,North 12,Kitaku, Sapporo, Hokkaido 0600812, Japan								8							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000877591900009	30	Article; Article		
J	Sears, Jackson; Cianfrone, Beth A.; Kellison, Timothy B.								Brand communication and the mass vaccination center: stadium, team and community perspectives								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				24	2			241	258		10.1108/IJSMS-02-2022-0048			APR 3 2023	2023	Purpose The usage of sport stadia for public service is increasingly common and may come in different forms. In the COVID-19 pandemic, this included sport entities hosting mass COVID-19 vaccinations at their stadiums. The purpose of this study was to examine the branding effects of a COVID-19 mass vaccination center as communicated by (1) a sport entity (i.e. stadium and its two teams) and (2) the public. Design/methodology/approach The authors analyzed the entity's social media messages related to the mass vaccination center for the three groups, the stadium and its two sports team tenants (N = 48) while comparing the public's social media content about the vaccination center (N = 187). An empirical material coding analysis was conducted. Findings The sport entity's posts revealed 12 codes, five categories and two themes communicated about their brand: In this together-community impact and showcasing brand attributes. The public posts analysis revealed 21 codes, eight categories and four themes, creating brand awareness, establishing/reaffirming brand attributes, affective response and in this together-community response. Originality/value The identification of the two organization themes and four public themes provided an initial examination of the mass vaccination efforts' impact on the sport entity's brand. With the rise of stadia being utilized as public service venues (e.g. voting centers and disaster shelters), the results of the study can provide guidance to communicating the host team's brand during these times. Results also suggest the public perception of such service reflected positive opportunities for brand exposure and subsequent effects for the teams.		[Sears, Jackson] Georgia State Univ, Dept Kinesiol & Hlth, Atlanta, GA 30303 USA; [Cianfrone, Beth A.; Kellison, Timothy B.] Georgia State Univ, Atlanta, GA 30303 USA; [Sears, Jackson] Georgia State Univ, Dept Kinesiol & Hlth, Atlanta, GA 30303 USA								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000863574700001	39	Article; Article		
J	Mendes-Cunha, Sofia; Moita, J. P.; Xarez, L.; Torres, J.								Dance-related musculoskeletal injury leading to forced time-loss in elite pre-professional dancers - a retrospective study								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				51	5			449	457		10.1080/00913847.2022.2129503			SEP 3 2023	2023	Young ballet dancers place themselves at risk of injury on a daily basis, often pushing their training beyond limits, ultimately leading to pain and injury. When signs and symptoms of injury are ignored, functional ability and overall health may be seriously compromised and absence from dance practice may forcibly take place. Objectives Describe the epidemiology of dance-related musculoskeletal injury leading to forced time-loss in elite pre-professional dancers and provide descriptive data on the prevalence concerning diagnoses, location, and injury type, stratified by gender and skill level. Methods Retrospective cohort, over a 3-year period on a full-time pre-professional Portuguese dance school featuring 70 both gender students with a mean age of 14.87 years. A total of 110 injuries were analyzed. Non-parametric statistics were used. Results The most prevalent diagnosis leading to forced time-loss in female dancers were Medial Tibial Stress Syndrome (MTSS), 14.29%, and Posterior Ankle Impingement Syndrome (PAIS), 7.14%, whereas in male dancers these were Hallux Sprain, 17.50%, and Lumbar Spine Joint Injuries, 7.50%. Differences were found in injuries' anatomical location between genders and in Incidence Proportion and Clinical Incidence between skill levels. 72.20% of the chronic injuries and 50.00% of the acute injuries occurred in Level III students. Conclusions With respect to forced time-loss injuries, male dancers were found to sustain more acute traumatic injuries and female dancers overuse, respectively, sprains and MTSS and PAIS. Identifying which injuries are most likely to lead to forced time-loss may be useful for helping health-care professionals in clinical decision-making and in developing more effective injury prevention and management strategies.		[Mendes-Cunha, Sofia; Torres, J.] Univ Porto, Fac Med, P-4200319 Porto, Portugal; [Moita, J. P.] Higher Sch Hlth ESSATLA, Barcarena, Portugal; [Moita, J. P.] Dance Sch Natl Conservatory, Barcarena, Portugal; [Xarez, L.] Univ Lisbon, Fac Human Motric, Motor Behav Lab, Cruz Quebrada, Portugal; [Mendes-Cunha, Sofia] Univ Porto, Fac Med, P-4200319 Porto, Portugal								9							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000863721000001	52	Article; Article		
J	Davies, William T.; Read, Paul J.								Deconstructing Cutting: An Evidence-Based Coaching Framework to Reduce Anterior Cruciate Ligament Injury Risk								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				44	5			22	38		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000708			OCT 2022	2022	Few evidence-based guides exist to support coaches in delivering technical elements of cutting that may reduce the risk of anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) rupture. In isolation, balance exercises, jump landing, cutting movements, as well as modifying the penultimate step, may alter biomechanics favorably during this maneuver. By breaking this serial skill into its constituent parts, the coach is afforded an opportunity to observe trainable deficits, and allows the player more opportunity for practice. In addition, factors such as specificity to the direction of load during landings, alongside building capacity, and using externally focused cues may be crucial for adaptation and transference into open sporting scenarios.		[Davies, William T.] Derby Cty Football Club, Derby, England; [Read, Paul J.] Inst Sport Exercise & Hlth, London, England; [Read, Paul J.] Univ Gloucester, Gloucester, Glos, England; [Read, Paul J.] UCL, London, England; [Davies, William T.] Derby Cty Football Club, Derby, England								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:000862469200003	141	Article; Article		
J	Kolokythas, Nico; Metsios, George S.; Galloway, Shaun M.; Allen, Nick; Wyon, Matthew A.								11+Dance: A Neuromuscular Injury Prevention Exercise Program for Dancers								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				44	5			1	9		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000692			OCT 2022	2022	Epidemiological studies over the past decade indicate high injury prevalence in preprofessional ballet (76%) and professional contemporary and ballet dancers (60-69%). Injuries can have detrimental effects both for the dancers and the dance company. Most injuries are in the lower limb and reported as the gradual onset of overuse. Professional dance companies have reduced injury incidence and severity through the implementation of comprehensive injury audit programs and proactive exercise prescription. Injury prevention research in dance is scarce, and there has been no intervention targeting dance injuries. This article describes the development of 11+ Dance, an injury prevention training program designed for dancers, based on current evidence and best practice on injury prevention in sports. It is a 25-30-minute neuromuscular-based training program focused on strength, balance, and jumping/landing technique, with special attention to ankle, knee, and hip alignment. The high prevalence of injuries reported in the different styles of dance suggests that implementation of an injury prevention program is both the plausible and ethical action to take for all levels of performance.		[Kolokythas, Nico; Metsios, George S.; Galloway, Shaun M.; Wyon, Matthew A.] Univ Wolverhampton, Inst Sport, Fac Educ Hlth & Wellbeing, Walsall, W Midlands, England; [Kolokythas, Nico] Elmhurst Ballet Sch, Hlth & Wellbeing Dept, Birmingham, W Midlands, England; [Kolokythas, Nico; Allen, Nick] Birmingham Royal Ballet, Jerwood Ctr Birmingham, Birmingham, W Midlands, England; [Allen, Nick; Wyon, Matthew A.] Natl Inst Dance Med & Sci, Brighton, E Sussex, England; [Kolokythas, Nico] Univ Wolverhampton, Inst Sport, Fac Educ Hlth & Wellbeing, Walsall, W Midlands, England; [Kolokythas, Nico] Elmhurst Ballet Sch, Hlth & Wellbeing Dept, Birmingham, W Midlands, England; [Kolokythas, Nico] Birmingham Royal Ballet, Jerwood Ctr Birmingham, Birmingham, W Midlands, England								8							Sport Sciences	WOS:000862469200001	62	Article; Article		
J	Sarvestan, Javad; Shirzad, Elham; Arshi, Ahmed Reza; Mousavian, Fereshteh								Analysis of change of direction performance with dominant and non-dominant leg using linear and nonlinear approaches								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2022.2112750				2022	This study was aimed to analyse the lower limb kinematics during the change of direction (COD) performance with the dominant (DL) and non-dominant (NDL) leg using linear (traditional kinematics) and nonlinear (Self Organising Map-based cluster analysis) approaches. Three 5-0-5 COD performances with the DL and three with the NDL were performed by 23 (aged 21.6 +/- 2.3 years) collegiate athletes. No significant difference was observed between the COD duration, and approach speed of DL and NDL. Significantly greater ankle abductions, knee and hip external rotations were identified in COD with DL, compared to NDL (p < .001, d > 0.8). Self Organising Maps portrayed a completely different coordination pattern profile during change of direction performance with the DL and NDL. The cluster analysis illustrated similar inter-individual coordination patterning when participants turned with their DL or NDL. No visible relationship was observed in the cluster analysis of the lower limb joint angles and angular velocities. Outcomes of this study portrayed that coordination patterning (combination of joint angles and the rate of change of angles) could portray the movement patterning differences in different tasks, while a sole investigation on the joint angles or angular velocities may not reveal the underlying mechanisms of movement patterning.		[Sarvestan, Javad] Palacky Univ Olomouc, Fac Phys Culture, Dept Nat Sci Kinanthropol, Olomouc, Czech Republic; [Sarvestan, Javad] Univ Ostrava, Human Mot Diagnost Ctr, Ostrava, Czech Republic; [Sarvestan, Javad] Univ Lisbon, Fac Motricidade Humana, Biomech & Funct Morphol Lab, CIPER, Lisbon, Portugal; [Sarvestan, Javad; Shirzad, Elham; Mousavian, Fereshteh] Univ Tehran, Fac Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Dept Hlth & Sports Med, Tehran, Iran; [Arshi, Ahmed Reza] Amirkabir Univ Technol, Biomed Engn Dept, Biomech & Sports Engn Grp, Tehran, Iran; [Sarvestan, Javad] Newcastle Univ, Fac Med Sci, Translat & Clin Res Inst, Newcastle Upon Tyne, Tyne & Wear, England; [Shirzad, Elham] Univ Tehran, Fac Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Dept Hlth & Sports Med, Tehran, Iran								2							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000861960000001	56	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Sweeney, Liam; Cumming, Sean P.; MacNamara, Aine; Horan, Dan								A tale of two selection biases: The independent effects of relative age and biological maturity on player selection in the Football Association of Ireland's national talent pathway								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	6			1992	2003		10.1177/17479541221126152			DEC 2023	2023	This study investigated the associations between biological maturation status (classified using the Khamis-Roche method for the percentage of predicted adult height at the time of observation) and relative age (expressed as a decimal value relative to the difference between birth date and competition cut-off date) and the extent to which their relative selection biases existed across competitive age groups in an analysis of players within the Football Association of Ireland's (FAI) national talent pathway. The players assessed were either from the U13 FAI National Academy (n = 125), the Ireland U15 national team (n = 18), or the Ireland U16 national team (n = 16). A moderate to very large selection bias in favour of early maturing players was observed across all age groups, increasing in magnitude with successive age groups (p < 0.05). A total of 46-72% of players selected into the national talent pathway were early maturing; 0% of U15 and U16 players were late maturing. A relative age effect existed across all competitive cohorts (p < 0.05), although not increasing with chronological age and smaller in magnitude than maturation biases. A small positive correlation between relative age and absolute maturity status at U13 was observed, and an inverse correlation between relative age and relative maturity status at U15 (p < 0.01) was observed. There were no other significant correlations between relative or absolute maturity status and relative age. We encourage Football Associations to critically reflect upon their criteria for national talent squad selection; the current system diminishes the chances of selection for late maturing players.		[Sweeney, Liam; MacNamara, Aine] Dublin City Univ, Fac Sci & Hlth, Sch Hlth & Human Performance, Dublin, Ireland; [Cumming, Sean P.] Univ Bath, Dept Hlth, Bath, Avon, England; [Horan, Dan] Football Assoc Ireland, High Performance Dept, Dublin, Ireland; [Sweeney, Liam] Dublin City Univ, Fac Sci & Hlth, Sch Hlth & Human Performance, Dublin, Ireland								48							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000861674800001	53	Article; Article		
J	Miyanishi, Tomohisa; Shimada, Kazushi; Kawamura, Takashi; Hirayama, Daisaku; Takahashi, Keizo; Nagahara, Ryu								Classification of four pitching styles in Japanese baseball players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	6			2198	2204		10.1177/17479541221128355			DEC 2023	2023	This study aimed to provide normative biomechanical data of baseball delivery styles and to verify an appropriate criterion for quantitatively classifying baseball pitches into four delivery styles. In total, 74 pitches were visually identified by seven coaches into 24 overhand (OS), 17 three-quarter (TS), 21 sidearm (SS) and 12 underhand (US) deliveries. The accuracies of the classifications of the pitches using the arm slot angle (theta(AS)) and using the combination of trunk lateral tilt (theta(T)) and upper arm elevation (theta(A)) angles at release were compared. Average values for theta(AS) were 53.9 degrees, 31.5 degrees, 5.8 degrees, and -34.8 degrees in the OS, TS, SS and US; corresponding values for theta(T) were 31.9 degrees, 15.4 degrees, -0.9 degrees, and -40.1 degrees; and for theta(A) were 39.8 degrees, 16.1 degrees, -6.3 degrees, and-43.0 degrees. Both variables (theta(AS) and the average of theta'(T) and theta'(A), which corresponded to the projection of each point on the regression line) correctly classified the delivery styles, but the accuracy of the classification using theta(AS) (96%) was higher than that using the average of theta'(T) and theta'(A) (89%). There were fewer and smaller overlaps of the ranges of pitches classified using theta(AS) (only 6 pitches between TS and SS (14.9 degrees to 23.0 degrees), which can be considered a buffer zone) compared to the average of theta'(T) and theta'(A). Consequently, theta(AS) seems the most appropriate for classifying baseball pitches into the four delivery styles. The separation points between the four styles were marked by theta(AS) values of 45 degrees (between OS and TS), 19 degrees (between TS and SS) and -13 degrees (between SS and US).		[Miyanishi, Tomohisa] Sendai Univ, Fac Sports Sci, 2-2-18 Funaokaminami, Shibata, Miyagi 9891693, Japan; [Shimada, Kazushi] Kanazawa Seiryo Univ, Fac Human Sci, Kanazawa, Ishikawa, Japan; [Kawamura, Takashi; Hirayama, Daisaku] Univ Tsukuba, Fac Hlth & Sport Sci, Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan; [Takahashi, Keizo] Biwako Seikei Sport Coll, Fac Sports Study, Otsu, Shiga, Japan; [Nagahara, Ryu] Natl Inst Fitness & Sports Kanoya, Kagoshima, Japan; [Miyanishi, Tomohisa] Sendai Univ, Fac Sports Sci, 2-2-18 Funaokaminami, Shibata, Miyagi 9891693, Japan								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000860130300001	13	Article; Article		
J	Guinoubi, Sarah; Mouelhi-Guizani, Salma; Chtara, Mokhtar; Crespo, Miguel								Competence Needs Satisfaction in elite junior tennis: Gender differences								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	6			2117	2124		10.1177/17479541221128936			DEC 2023	2023	Empirical studies on Basic Psychological Needs Theory in sports have increased exponentially since the turn of the millennium. Within this context, we studied the contribution of competence needs as a predictor of Reduced Sense of Accomplishment (RSA) and Balance between Challenge and Skills (BCS) in elite junior tennis players and its gender differences. A sample of 114 (62 girls and 52 boys) junior elite players (15.62 +/- 1.36 years) from 24 countries competing in the International Tennis Federation world junior tournaments participated in this study. Three different questionnaires were used, Competence Needs Satisfaction (CNS) with Basic Needs Satisfaction in Sport Scale, RSA with Athlete Burnout Questionnaire, and BCS with Dispositional Flow State 2. Results showed that these scales were reliable (>.70). Independent sample t-test analysis revealed no significant gender differences in any of them (p > .05). Structural equation modeling (SEM) showed that CNS was negatively associated with RSA (r = -.46; p < .001) and positively associated with BCS (r = .81; p < .001). It can be concluded that coaches, parents, and team members should understand the relevance of adopting behaviors and programs that satisfy the competence needs of elite junior tennis players. By doing so, elite tennis players would be protected against a RSA and facilitate more confidence in aiming them to face the competitive challenges of the sport.		[Guinoubi, Sarah; Mouelhi-Guizani, Salma] Univ La Manouba, ISSEP, Tunis, Tunisia; [Guinoubi, Sarah; Chtara, Mokhtar] Natl Ctr Med & Sci Sports CNMSS, Tunisian Res Lab, Sport Performance Optimizat, Tunis, Tunisia; [Mouelhi-Guizani, Salma] Tunisian Tennis Federat, Tunis, Tunisia; [Crespo, Miguel] Int Tennis Federat, Dev Dept, Bank Lane, London SW15 5XZ, England								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000859257400001	70	Article; Article		
J	Hagiwaraa, Goichi; Kurita, Kayoko; Hachisuka, Satori; Warisawa, Shinichi; Iwatsuki, Takehiro; Mizuochi, Fumio; Yukhymenko-Lescroart, Mariya								A development and preliminary validation of the brief version of the Japanese Academic and Athletic Identity Scale								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	6			2230	2238		10.1177/17479541221128954			DEC 2023	2023	The purpose of this study was to develop and validate a brief version of the Japanese Academic and Athletic Identity Scale (AAIS-JB), which would enable the survey to be easily conducted online nationwide in Japan. In addition, this study determined the centrality of academic and athletic identities in the elite student-athletes with scholarships and the sub-elite student-athletes with no scholarships. Participants (n = 1009) consisted of student-athletes from 20 universities (5 districts) in Japan, of which 560 were elite athletes (i.e. receiving scholarships) and 449 were sub-elite athletes (i.e. not receiving scholarships). Results showed content validity, factorial validity, and reliability of the brief version of the AAIS-JB. Both athletic and academic identities were significantly higher for the elite student-athletes than for the sub-elite student-athletes. Differences between the elite and sub-elite student-athletes provide important insights into the further development of intercollegiate sports in Japan. Sports administrators and the coaching staffs engaged with student-athletes can support student-athletes by understanding more about the dominant dimensions of their identity to maximize its positive impact on student-athletes.		[Hagiwaraa, Goichi] Kyushu Sangyo Univ, Dept Sport Sci & Hlth, Fukuoka, Fukuoka, Japan; [Hagiwaraa, Goichi; Warisawa, Shinichi] Univ Tokyo, Grad Sch Frontier Sci, Kashiwa, Chiba, Japan; [Kurita, Kayoko] Univ Tokyo, Grad Sch Educ, Bunkyo Ku, Tokyo, Japan; [Hachisuka, Satori] Univ Tokyo, Interfac Initiat Informat Studies, Kashiwa, Chiba, Japan; [Iwatsuki, Takehiro] Univ Hawaii, Dept Kinesiol & Exercise Sci, Hilo, HI 96720 USA; [Mizuochi, Fumio] Nihon Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Chiyoda Ku, Tokyo, Japan; [Yukhymenko-Lescroart, Mariya] Calif State Univ Fresno, Dept Curriculum & Instruct, Fresno, CA 93740 USA; [Hagiwaraa, Goichi] Kyushu Sangyo Univ, Dept Sport Sci & Hlth, Higashi Ku, 2-3-1 Matsukadai, Fukuoka 8138503, Japan								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000859268000001	58	Article; Article		
J	Borrueco, Marta; Torregrossa, Miquel; Pallares, Susana; Vitali, Francesca; Ramis, Yago								Women coaches at top level: Looking back through the maze								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	2			327	338		10.1177/17479541221126614			APR 2023	2023	Framed in the Ecological-Intersectional Model and the Stages of Career Progression Model, the objective of this study was to explore how women coaching in high-performance settings advanced through the 'bottle-neck' path. In total 13 women coaches from Southern Europe between the age of 28 and 46 years working in high-performance contexts were interviewed. In order to assess both the subjective perceptions of participants and the structural factors that prevent women from accessing top-level positions, we adopted a critical realist perspective to perform a thematic analysis. Results show that while women coaches may follow a linear coaching career path in their early career stages, once they try to progress to high-performance settings their careers are shaped by the metaphor of a maze. Women need to navigate through a maze while having to overcome jeopardizing factors to find a succeeding career path in sports coaching. Moreover, previous experience as elite athletes, close entourage, role models, organizational support, precarious working conditions and motherhood influenced women's development of a coaching career, with differing relevance depending on the career stage. Women coaches who reach top-level positions associate their success with casual or external factors, instead of causal explanations related to their own achievements. We add evidence on the specificities of women's coaching careers that should be addressed not only to improve their recruitment and professional progression, but also to work on reducing the probabilities of women exiting the role.		[Borrueco, Marta; Torregrossa, Miquel; Pallares, Susana; Ramis, Yago] Univ Autonoma Barcelona, Grp Estudis Psicol Esport, Bellaterra 08193, Spain; [Borrueco, Marta; Torregrossa, Miquel; Pallares, Susana; Ramis, Yago] Univ Autonoma Barcelona, Sport Res Inst UAB, Bellaterra, Spain; [Vitali, Francesca] Univ Verona, Sect Movement Sci, Dept Neurosci Biomed & Movement Sci, Verona, Italy; [Borrueco, Marta] Univ Autonoma Barcelona, Grp Estudis Psicol Esport, Bellaterra 08193, Spain								40							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000859256400001	62	Article; Article		
J	Huang, Tsung-Yu; Tang, Wen-Tzu; Liu, Tsun-Te; Hamill, Joseph; Hu, Chengming								Kinematic and kinetic demands on better roundhouse kick performances								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	2			425	439		10.1080/14763141.2022.2122862			FEB 1 2025	2025	The roundhouse kick is one of the most widely applied techniques in a taekwondo competition. Because the scoring system of taekwondo has been changed, the skill of roundhouse kick has been affected. Therefore, coaches and athletes are attempting to better understand how to control the movement of the kick to gain points more effectively. The aim of this study was to investigate the differences in the biomechanical characteristics between the roundhouse kicks with higher and lower impact magnitude using an electronic body protector. Eighteen elite college Taekwondo athletes participated in this study. A motion capture system measured the kinematics data of the kicking leg. The results indicated that elite athletes can obtain a high-impact index of the electrical body protector through increasing the peak linear velocity of shank, even with the same foot velocity level. In regard to kinetic skills, the roundhouse kicks a high impact. The velocity of proximal kicking limb could predominantly contribute to the powerful roundhouse kicks to achieve the high-impact force for electrical body protector. Moreover, when the kick cannot be effectively scored during the game, coaches and masters should consider adjusting to increase the velocity of proximal kicking.		[Huang, Tsung-Yu; Tang, Wen-Tzu] Natl Taiwan Sport Univ, Grad Inst Athlet & Coaching Sci, Taoyuan, Taiwan; [Liu, Tsun-Te] Tamkang Univ, Off Phys Educ, New Taipei, Taiwan; [Hamill, Joseph] Univ Massachusetts, Biomech Lab, Amherst, MA USA; [Hu, Chengming] St Ambrose Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Davenport, IA USA; [Tang, Wen-Tzu] Natl Taiwan Sport Univ, Grad Inst Athlet & Coaching Sci, Taoyuan, Taiwan								14							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000860049400001	28	Article; Article		
J	Richardson, Ben; Dobbin, Nick; White, Christopher; Bloyce, Daniel; Twist, Craig								Are you lookin' at me? A mixed-methods case study to investigate the influence of coaches' presence on performance testing outcomes in male academy rugby league players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	2			563	571		10.1177/17479541221126316			APR 2023	2023	The study used a mixed-methods approach to examine how the presence of coaches influenced male academy rugby league players' performance during physical performance testing. Fifteen male rugby players completed two trials of 20 m sprint, countermovement jump and prone Yo-Yo test; one with only the sport scientist present and a second where the sport scientist conducted the battery with both the club's lead strength and conditioning coach, academy manager, and the first team assistant and head coach present. Players and coaches then completed one-to-one semi-structured interviews to explore their beliefs, attitudes and opinions towards physical performance testing. In all tests, the players' performance was better when the coaches were present compared to when tests were conducted by the sport scientist alone. Interviews revealed performance testing was used by coaches to exercise their power over players to socialise them into the desired culture. Players' own power was evident through additional effort during testing when coaches were present. Practitioners should ensure consistency in the presence of significant observers during performance testing of male rugby players to minimise their influence on test outcome.		[Richardson, Ben] York St John Univ, Sch Sci Technol & Hlth, York, N Yorkshire, England; [Dobbin, Nick] Manchester Metropolitan Univ, Dept Hlth Profess, Manchester, Lancs, England; [White, Christopher] Wrexham Glyndwr Univ, Wrexham, Wales; [Bloyce, Daniel; Twist, Craig] Univ Chester, Dept Sport & Exercise Sci, Chester, Cheshire, England; [Twist, Craig] Univ Chester, Parkgate Rd, Chester CH1 4BJ, Cheshire, England								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000857975000001	34	Article; Article		
J	Alonso Dos Santos, Manuel; Sanchez-Franco, Manuel J.; Torres-Moraga, Eduardo; Calabuig Moreno, Ferran								Effectiveness of sponsoring the video assistant referee system: a comparative exploratory study								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				24	2			221	240		10.1108/IJSMS-05-2022-0107			APR 3 2023	2023	Purpose This study explores the effect of video assistant referee (VAR) sponsorship on spectator response and compares it with advertising and conventional sponsorship. Design/methodology/approach An experiment with 809 subjects is conducted by analyzing 20 one-minute video clip stimuli from a Premier League soccer game divided into four formats: two formats of VAR sponsorship, advertising, and conventional sponsorship. Findings The results show that the indicators of recall, credibility, and perceived congruence improve when the VAR sponsorship format is used. Originality/value This is the first manuscript to examine the effectiveness of a new type of sponsorship: VAR sponsorship. This manuscript provides metrics that will guide practitioners on whether to use this type of sponsorship.		[Alonso Dos Santos, Manuel] Univ Granada, Dept Mkt & Market Res, Granada, Spain; [Alonso Dos Santos, Manuel] Univ Catolica Santisima Concepcion, Dept Adm, Concepcion, Chile; [Sanchez-Franco, Manuel J.] Univ Seville, Dept Business Adm & Mkt, Seville, Spain; [Torres-Moraga, Eduardo] Univ Chile, Sch Econ & Business, Santiago, Chile; [Calabuig Moreno, Ferran] Univ Valencia, Dept Phys Educ & Sports, Valencia, Spain; [Alonso Dos Santos, Manuel] Univ Granada, Dept Mkt & Market Res, Granada, Spain; [Alonso Dos Santos, Manuel] Univ Catolica Santisima Concepcion, Dept Adm, Concepcion, Chile								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000855054600001	98	Article; Article		
J	Wang, Yu-Bu; Guo, Lu; Fan, Jun-Yi; Mao, Zhi-Xiong								Expectations Come True: The Placebo Effect of Exercise on Affective Responses								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	4			1153	1161		10.1080/02701367.2022.2121372			OCT 2 2023	2023	Objective: This study investigated the placebo and nocebo effects of habitual and induced expectations. Methods: In Study 1, 95 participants (M-age = 19.65 +/- 2.21 years, M-BMI = 21.94 +/- 2.55) were grouped according to habitual expectations (positive, neutral, or negative) and completed a 30-min moderate-intensity aerobic exercise, and their affective response, rating of perceived exertion (RPE), and heart rate variability (HRV) were measured before, during, and after the exercise. In Study 2, the participants from Study 1 were grouped according to induced expectations (control, positive, or negative) and completed a 30-min moderate-intensity aerobic exercise. Affective response, RPE, and HRV were measured before, during, and after exercise. Results: In Study 1, positive habitual expectations increased affective response during and after exercise [F(2, 92) = 2.959, p = .057, eta(2)(p) = .060], and negative habitual expectations increased RPE during exercise [F(2, 92) = 5.174, p = .007, eta(2)(p) = .101]. In Study 2, positive induced expectation increased affective response during [F(2, 86) = 5.492, p = .006, eta(2)(p) = .113] and after exercise [F(2, 86) = 6.096, p = .003, eta(2)(p) = .124] and was not affected by habitual expectation. Conclusion: The affective response during and after exercise is influenced by habitual and induced expectations. Positive expectations enhance affective benefits, while negative expectations reduce affective benefits.		[Wang, Yu-Bu; Guo, Lu; Fan, Jun-Yi; Mao, Zhi-Xiong] Beijing Sport Univ, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Guo, Lu] Beijing Sport Univ, Sch Psychol, 48 Xinxi Rd, Beijing, Peoples R China								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000855337300001	41	Article; Article		
J	Hebert-Losier, Kim; Ngawhika, Te Manawa; Gill, Nicholas; Balsalobre-Fernandez, Carlos								Validity, reliability, and normative data on calf muscle function in rugby union players from the Calf Raise application								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	2			403	424		10.1080/14763141.2022.2118158			FEB 1 2025	2025	We examined the validity and reliability of biomechanical outcomes extracted using the Calf Raise application of three calf muscle tests. We then established normative calf muscle function values for male rugby union players accounting for rugby-related factors (position, level) alone and together with clinical factors (age, leg dominance, BMI, previous injury). In total, 120 athletes performed three single-leg calf muscle tests. Twenty athletes participated in application validation; 18 in test-retest reliability; and all in establishing normative equations. Validity of application outcomes against 3D motion and force plate data was good-to-excellent (CV <= 6.6%, ICC >= 0.84). Test-retest reliability was good across outcomes following familiarisation (CV < 10%, ICC >= 0.83). Forwards produced superior power than backs during the bodyweight (59 W, p = 0.007) and weighted (73 W, p < 0.001) power tests. Playing level influenced power outcomes (p < 0.009). Super Rugby players were more powerful than Club (both power tests), Provincial (both power tests), and International (bodyweight power). Backs completed more repetitions (3 repetitions, p = 0.001) and positive displacement (30 cm, p = 0.001) than forwards during endurance testing. When accounting for clinical factors; BMI, age, and previous injury explained some of the differences observed between positions and levels. This study provides initial benchmark values of calf muscle function in rugby union.		[Hebert-Losier, Kim; Ngawhika, Te Manawa; Gill, Nicholas] Univ Waikato, Huataki Waiora Sch Hlth, Div Hlth Engn Comp & Sci, Tauranga, New Zealand; [Gill, Nicholas] New Zealand Rugby Union, Wellington, New Zealand; [Balsalobre-Fernandez, Carlos] Univ Autonoma Madrid, Appl Biomech & Sport Technol Res Grp, Madrid, Spain; [Hebert-Losier, Kim] Univ Waikato, Huataki Waiora Sch Hlth, Div Hlth Engn Comp & Sci, Tauranga, New Zealand								42							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000857912400001	37	Article; Article		
J	Parks, Ashlee; Gosselin, Sarah; Goetschius, John								Instrumented measures of postural control in college dancers with and without chronic ankle instability								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				58				41	45		10.1016/j.ptsp.2022.09.001			NOV 2022	2022	Objectives: To determine whether collegiate dancers with chronic ankle instability (CAI) demonstrated impaired postural control during instrumented measures of single-leg static balance compared to dancers without CAI.Design: Cross sectional design.Setting: University dance studios.Participants: We included N = 39 dance majors from a large, public university. We stratified participants into CAI (n = 20, age = 20 +/- 1.8, IdFAI = 17.3 +/- 5.7, number of sprains = 1.9 +/- 1.1) and Control groups (n = 19, age = 20 +/- 1.2, IdFAI = 2.5 +/- 3.0).Main outcome measures: Participants performed 3 x 10-s single-leg, static balance trials on a pressure mat in two different conditions, foot-flat eyes closed and demi-pointe eyes open. We measured six different time-to-boundary (TTB) measurements during each balance trial and calculated the average of the 3 trials for each condition. Participants also completed the Foot and Ankle Ability Measure (FAAM) sport and activities of daily living (ADL) questionnaires. Results: The CAI group reported greater IdFAI and lower FAAM-ADL and FAAM-Sport scores compared to the control group. We observed no significant differences in TTB measurements between the CAI and control groups during either balance conditions. Conclusions: Instrumented measures of static postural control were not impaired in college dancers with CAI compared dancers without CAI.		[Parks, Ashlee; Goetschius, John] James Madison Univ, Dept Hlth Profess, Harrisonburg, VA USA; [Gosselin, Sarah] James Madison Univ, Dept Theatre & Dance, Harrisonburg, VA USA; [Goetschius, John] Hlth & Behav Studies Bldg,235 Martin Luther King J, Harrisonburg, VA 22807 USA; [Goetschius, John] Hlth & Behav Studies Bldg,235 Martin Luther King J, Harrisonburg, VA 22807 USA								3							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000877591900004	23	Article; Article		
J	Trail, Galen; Lee, Don; Triantafyllidis, Stavros; Minkove, Jessica; Kim, Ari; Sweeney, Kristi; Choi, Wanyong; Alfaro-Barrantes, Priscila								Are single-item needs' and values' measures a good alternative to multi-item measures for sport marketers?								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				24	1			168	185		10.1108/IJSMS-11-2021-0225			JAN 17 2023	2023	Purpose This paper aims to determine if single-item (SI) needs' and values' measures have similar reliability and validity values to multi-item (MI) measures of the same constructs and thus could be substituted by sport marketers to predict internal motivating aspects of sport consumer attitudes and behavior. In addition, the authors wish to determine whether a small subset of needs and values listed in current measures are sufficient to predict sport consumer attitudes and behavior. Design/methodology/approach In this two-study design, the first study was a national sample (N = 439) comparing reliability and validity of single-item scales to multi-item scales. In the second study the authors collected data from fans and spectators of four different teams (N1 = 583; N2 = 1164; N3 = 213; N4 = 404) to determine the impact of needs and values on sport consumer attitudes and behavior. Findings The authors determined that in 89% of the scales, single-item measures of needs and values were just as reliable and valid as their associated multi-item measures. The authors also found that a small subset of the needs and values explain a meaningful amount of variance in sport consumer attitudes and behaviors. Research limitations/implications The authors determined that in 89% of the scales, single-item measures of needs and values were just as reliable and valid as their associated multi-item measures. The authors also found that a small subset of the needs and values explain a meaningful amount of variance in sport consumer attitudes and behaviors. Originality/value The authors show that as motives for sport consumption, single-item measures of personal needs and values are equivalent to multi-item measures and not all needs and values used in previous sport research are necessary because they do not predict a meaningful amount of variance in sport consumer attitudes and behaviors. The authors identified a small number of single-item measures that practitioners can easily use in short surveys that will predict a statistically meaningful amount of variance in sport consumer attitudes and behaviors.		[Trail, Galen] Seattle Univ, Dept Mkt, Seattle, WA 98122 USA; [Lee, Don] Univ Houston, Houston, TX USA; [Triantafyllidis, Stavros] Triantafyllidis Sport Acad, Athens, Greece; [Minkove, Jessica; Kim, Ari] Towson Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Towson, MD USA; [Sweeney, Kristi; Choi, Wanyong] Univ North Florida, Jacksonville, FL USA; [Alfaro-Barrantes, Priscila] Nichols Coll, Dudley, MA USA; [Trail, Galen] Seattle Univ, Dept Mkt, Seattle, WA 98122 USA								12							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000852470400001	48	Article; Article		
J	Beltran, Richard T.; Powell, Douglas W.; Greenwood, Daniel; Paquette, Max R.								The Influence of Footwear Longitudinal Bending Stiffness on Running Economy and Biomechanics in Older Runners								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	4			1062	1072		10.1080/02701367.2022.2114589			OCT 2 2023	2023	Purpose: This study assessed the effects of footwear longitudinal bending stiffness on running economy and biomechanics of rearfoot striking older runners. Methods: Nine runners over 60 years of age completed two running bouts at their preferred running pace in each of three footwear conditions: low (4.4 +/- 1.8 N center dot m(-1)), moderate (5.7 +/- 1.7 N center dot m(-1)), and high (6.4 +/- 1.6 N center dot m(-1)) bending stiffness. Testing order was randomized and a mirror protocol was used (i.e., A,B,C,C,B,A). Expired gases, lower limb kinematics, and ground reaction forces were collected simultaneously and lower limb joint kinetics, running economy (i.e., VO2), leg stiffness, and spatio-temporal variables were calculated. Results: Running economy was not different among stiffness conditions (p = 0.60, p = 0.53 [mass adjusted]). Greater footwear stiffness reduced step length (p = 0.046) and increased peak vertical ground reaction force (p = 0.019) but did not change peak ankle plantarflexor torque (p = 0.65), peak positive ankle power (p = 0.48), ankle positive work (p = 0.86), propulsive force (p = 0.081), and leg stiffness (p = 0.46). Moderate footwear stiffness yielded greater peak negative knee power compared to low (p = 0.04) and high (p = 0.03) stiffness. Conclusions: These novel findings demonstrate that increasing footwear longitudinal bending stiffness using flat carbon fiber inserts does not improve running economy and generally does not alter lower limb joint mechanics of rearfoot strike runners over 60 years. Future studies should investigate how other footwear characteristics (e.g., midsole material, plate location, and sole curvature) influence economy and biomechanics in this population.		[Beltran, Richard T.; Powell, Douglas W.; Greenwood, Daniel; Paquette, Max R.] Univ Memphis, Memphis, TN 38152 USA; [Paquette, Max R.] Univ Memphis, Coll Hlth Sci, 171b Elma Roane Fieldhouse, Memphis, TN 38152 USA								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000853490200001	63	Article; Article		
J	Mulhearn, Shannon C.; Kulinna, Pamela H.; van der Mars, Hans; Stylianou, Michalis; McMullen, Jaimie; Ellison, Douglas								Fishing Downstream: Does CSPAP Promotion During PETE Transfer to Teaching Practice by K-12 Physical Educators?								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	4			1073	1083		10.1080/02701367.2022.2114590			OCT 2 2023	2023	Physical Education Teacher Education (PETE) training has the potential to influence graduates' decisions as physical educators. Utilizing themes from Rogers' Diffusion of Innovations and Lawson's Occupational Socialization theories, we focused on graduates from a single PETE program which, beginning in 2007, began integrating content, expectations, and experiences relating to an expanded role of the physical educator such as in comprehensive school physical activity programs (CSPAPs). Purpose: The purpose of this study was to examine transfer in terms of university training leading to teaching practices in expanded physical activity programming. Method: An electronic questionnaire was sent to 335 graduates from May 2000 through May 2019. Sixty-seven graduates' questionnaires were investigated looking at perceptions of CSPAP as an innovation, current expanded physical activity (PA) offerings, and memories of PETE. Additionally, 13 participants participated in a school visit and interview which acted as a fidelity check for self-reported levels of expanded PA programming reported in the questionnaire. Results: All 67 graduates included some amount of expanded PA programming. Positive correlations were found with perception of CSPAP as an innovation, for both year of graduation and memory of PETE programming, thus students exposed to CSPAP programming during PETE were implementing components at their schools at higher levels. Conclusion: There is positive potential for professional socialization to influence graduates' practices. Perceptions of CSPAP as an innovation were positive and support the promotion of triability and starting small when PETE programs encourage expanded PA programming.		[Mulhearn, Shannon C.] Univ Nebraska, Kearney, NE 68849 USA; [Kulinna, Pamela H.; van der Mars, Hans] Arizona State Univ, Tempe, AZ 85287 USA; [Stylianou, Michalis] Univ Queensland, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [McMullen, Jaimie] Univ Northern Colorado, Greeley, CO USA; [Ellison, Douglas] Kent State Univ, Kent, OH 44242 USA; [Mulhearn, Shannon C.] Univ Nebraska, Kinesiol & Sport Sci, 1410 W 26th St,Cushing 132, Kearney, NE 68849 USA								9							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000853169000001	33	Article; Article		
J	Kambic, Tim; Krasovec, Filip Stepisnik; Erculj, Frane; Stirn, Igor								Biomechanical Adjustments of the Basketball Jump Shot Performed over Differently High Opponents								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				83	1			23	28		10.2478/hukin-2022-0049			SEP 8 2022	2022	Biomechanical adjustments of the jump shot in presence of an opponent and their associations with shooting efficiency remain to be determined in elite basketball. The aim of this research was to examine the selected biomechanical determinants of the jump shot when shooting over opponents of different height. Nineteen elite basketball players, age 22 +/- 3 years, performed three trials of 20 basketball shots in a crossover, randomised manner: over an obstacle of the height of standing reach (RH), over reach height with additional 20 cm (RH+20 cm), over reach height with additional 40 cm (RH+40 cm), and the maximum height jump shot without an obstacle (JS(max)). Jump height, the ball entry angle, and shooting efficiency were measured on each trial. Jump height when shooting over RH+40 cm was significantly higher than RH+20 cm (+0.022 m, p = 0.030) and RH (+0.023 m, p = 0.029). Similarly, the ball entry angle was greater at RH+40 cm compared to RH (+7.19 degrees, p < 0.001) and RH+20 cm (+2.90 degrees, p < 0.001). In contrast, shooting efficiency decreased significantly when shooting over RH+40 cm compared to RH (-10.79%, p = 0.048) and RH+20 cm (-8.95%, p = 0.015). We recorded the highest jump height (0.35 +/- 0.08m, p < 0.001) and the lowest angle of entry (39.16 +/- 1.19 degrees, p < 0.001) when participants performed JS(max). Shooting over higher opponents should be prioritised in training to significantly improve shooting efficiency. Future research is needed to determine additional potential biomechanical determinants of a successful jump shot in elite basketball.		[Kambic, Tim] Gen Hosp Murska Sobota, Dept Res & Educ, Murska Sobota, Slovenia; [Kambic, Tim; Erculj, Frane; Stirn, Igor] Univ Ljubljana, Fac Sport, Ljubljana, Slovenia; [Krasovec, Filip Stepisnik] Sopron Basketball Club, Sopron, Hungary; [Kambic, Tim] Gen Hosp Murska Sobota, Dept Res & Educ, Murska Sobota, Slovenia; [Kambic, Tim] Univ Ljubljana, Fac Sport, Ljubljana, Slovenia								11							Sport Sciences	WOS:000850738600003	17	Article; Article		
J	Markovic, Milan; Toskic, Lazar; Kukic, Filip; Zaric, Ivan; Dopsaj, Milivoj								Sensitivity of Field Tests for Assessment of Wrestlers Specific Fitness								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				83	1			267	276		10.2478/hukin-2022-0069			SEP 8 2022	2022	The aim of this study was to determine the differences in performance, cardiac, and metabolic variables of combat-specific fitness of wrestlers from varying sports levels. The sample consisted of 61 active and highly trained adult wrestlers of national and international levels from Serbia, from both Greco-Roman and freestyle forms of wrestling, allocated into three groups: national team wrestlers (N = 15), first league competitive wrestlers (N = 20), and second league competitive wrestlers (N = 26). Participants performed two tests: a Specific Wrestling Fitness Test (SWFT) and a Specific Wrestling Performance Test (SWPT). Between-group differences were determined using multiple analysis of variance (MANOVA). Significant differences were obtained between wrestlers of different sports levels in Tn(Throws) (F = 77.491, p < 0.001), SJF(Index) (F = 49.710, p < 0.001), and SWPIndex (F = 31.205, p < 0.001) in the SWFT and in Tn(Throws) (F = 71.051, p < 0.001), SJF(Index) F = 45.343, p < 0.001), and SWPIndex (F = 26.820, p < 0.001) in the SWPT. Based on the results, it could be concluded that the SWFT and the SWPT provide very good sensitivity in the evaluation of the wrestlers specific fitness of wrestlers.		[Markovic, Milan; Toskic, Lazar] Univ Pristina Kosovska Mitrovica, Fac Sport & Phys Educ, Leposavic, Serbia; [Toskic, Lazar] Univ Union Nikola Tesla, Fac Sport, Belgrade, Serbia; [Kukic, Filip] Abu Dhabi Police, Phys Fitness Testing & Res Police Sports Educ Ctr, Abu Dhabi, U Arab Emirates; [Zaric, Ivan; Dopsaj, Milivoj] Univ Belgrade, Fac Sport & Phys Educ, Belgrade, Serbia; [Dopsaj, Milivoj] South Ural State Univ, Inst Sport Tourism & Serv, Chelyabinsk, Russia; [Markovic, Milan] Vuka Karadzica 47, Valjevo 14000, Serbia								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:000850738600026	29	Article; Article		
J	Kim, Minhong; Park, Jinwoo; Yoon, Youngmin								Assessing spectator motivation for the Paralympics: the mediating role of attitude								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				24	1			186	202		10.1108/IJSMS-08-2021-0158			JAN 17 2023	2023	Purpose The purpose of this study was to examine the influence of para-sport spectator motivation on spectator revisit intentions and the mediating effect of attitude on motivation and revisit intentions. Design/methodology/approach This study was conducted in the context of the 2018 PyeongChang Winter Paralympic Games. A total of 350 respondents completed a survey. Confirmatory factor analysis (CFA) and structural equation modeling (SEM) were used to analyze the data. Findings Inspiration, supercrip image, physical skill/aesthetics, and social interaction had strong influences on attitudes toward Winter Paralympics, and attitude was also shown to have a strong impact on revisit intentions. The results also revealed the mediating effect of attitude on para-sports motivation factors (inspiration, supercrip image, physical skill/aesthetics, and social interaction) and revisit intentions. Originality/value This study extends the literature on para-sport spectator motivation. Although there are a few studies examining spectators' motivation to attend para-sport events, there is limited research on the relationships among motivation, attitude, and revisit intention based on consumer attitude theories. The results are valuable to sport managers in increasing the propensity of para-sports events by understanding the factors that lead to changes in attitudes and increases in future attendance.		[Kim, Minhong] Univ North Texas, Dept Kinesiol Hlth Promot & Recreat, Denton, TX 76203 USA; [Park, Jinwoo] Pusan Natl Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Busan, South Korea; [Yoon, Youngmin] Eastern New Mexico Univ, Food Sci & Kinesiol, Portales, NM USA; [Park, Jinwoo] Pusan Natl Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Busan, South Korea								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000850274900001	84	Article; Article		
J	Jamkrajang, Parunchaya; Mongkolpichayaruk, Atipong; Limroongreungrat, Weerawat; Wiltshire, Huw; Irwin, Gareth								The Effect of Arm Dominance on Knee Joint Biomechanics during Basketball Block Shot Single-Leg Landing								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				83	1			13	21		10.2478/hukin-2022-0100			SEP 8 2022	2022	Single arm blocking is a key component of successful basketball defence. The player uses either their dominant or non-dominant arm to block the ball landing on a common leg. Understanding how the bio-physical loads of the landing leg change as a function of the blocking arm will provide insights into potential injury risk of the lower limb. The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of arm dominance on the biomechanical variables of injury risk of the lower limb, specifically the knee joint during the single-leg landing in female basketball players. Kinematic and kinetic data were collected from fourteen female basketball athletes (20.85 +/- 1.35 years, 1.69 +/- 0.06 m, 60.37 +/- 7.75 kg), each performing three trials of a dominant arm and non-dominant block jump landing on the dominant leg. The results showed significantly higher anterior and medial ground reaction force, knee joint flexion and abduction and lateral knee force during the dominant arm landing (p < 0.05). These findings highlight potential injury risk and the need for the player to be more proficient at dominant arm block-shot landing. The player should aim to develop a larger landscape of technique to meet the demands of the game and facilitate a more effective and safer landing strategy.		[Jamkrajang, Parunchaya; Mongkolpichayaruk, Atipong; Limroongreungrat, Weerawat] Mahidol Univ, Coll Sports Sci & Technol, 999 Phutthamonthon Sai 4 Rd, Phutthamonthon Dist 73170, Nakhon Pathom, Thailand; [Wiltshire, Huw; Irwin, Gareth] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Cardiff Sch Sport & Hlth Sci, Cardiff, Wales; [Jamkrajang, Parunchaya] Mahidol Univ, Coll Sports Sci & Technol, 999 Phutthamonthon Sai 4 Rd, Phutthamonthon Dist 73170, Nakhon Pathom, Thailand								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:000850738600002	35	Article; Article		
J	del Mar Fernandez-Alvarez, Maria; Cachero-Rodriguez, Judit; Leiros-Diaz, Claudia; Carrasco-Santos, Sergio; Martin-Payo, Ruben								Evaluation of Water Intake in Spanish Adolescent Soccer Players during a Competition								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				83	1			59	66		10.2478/hukin-2022-0051			SEP 8 2022	2022	An optimal state of hydration is essential to maintaining health. The objective of this cross-sectional study was to evaluate the water intake of adolescents aged 12 to 16 years and their hydration level during an official soccer match. Three hundred and six players participated in the study (N = 306). Their water intake was recorded and the level of hydration was evaluated using the density of urine as an indicator. Weight measurements were made before and after the match. Water intake control, urine collection and analysis, and the recording of minutes played were carried out after the match. The average weight loss was 746.2 g (SD: 474.07; p < 0.001), with 36.5% with less than 1% loss and 23.3% with more than 2% loss. The mean volume of water ingested was 229.35 ml (SD: 211.11) and a significant correlation was observed between minutes of activity (rho-value = 0.206; p < 0.001), environmental humidity (rho-value = - 0.281; p < 0.001), and temperature (rho-value = 0.200; p < 0.001). The sweat rate was 0.69 l/h (SD: 0.56) and it was significantly associated with playing time (rho-value = -0.276; p < 0.001). The mean urine density was 1.019 (SD: 0.007), with 64.9% of youth athletes showing dehydration (>= 1.020). An association was observed between dehydration and activity time (U- value = 4.124; p < 0.001). Approximately 10% of the participants stated that they had not drunk any water during the match. In conclusion, it is necessary to establish individual hydration guidelines based on personal, environmental and activity-related factors, as well as establish a minimum volume of fluids to consume.		[del Mar Fernandez-Alvarez, Maria; Cachero-Rodriguez, Judit; Martin-Payo, Ruben] Univ Oviedo, Fac Med & Ciencias Salud, Campus Cristo S-N, Oviedo 33006, Asturias, Spain; [del Mar Fernandez-Alvarez, Maria; Cachero-Rodriguez, Judit; Leiros-Diaz, Claudia; Carrasco-Santos, Sergio; Martin-Payo, Ruben] Inst Invest Sanitaria Principado Asturias, Equipo Invest Precam, Oviedo, Spain; [Leiros-Diaz, Claudia; Carrasco-Santos, Sergio] Hosp San Agustin, Aviles, Asturias, Spain; [del Mar Fernandez-Alvarez, Maria] Univ Oviedo, Fac Med & Ciencias Salud, Campus Cristo S-N, Oviedo 33006, Asturias, Spain								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:000850738600007	30	Article; Article		
J	Michalski, Tomasz; Krol, Tomasz; Michalik, Piotr; Rutkowska, Magdalena; Dabrowska-Galas, Magdalena; Ziaja, Damian; Kuszewski, Michal								Does the Self-Myofascial Release Affect the Activity of Selected Lower Limb Muscles of Soccer Players?								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				83	1			49	57		10.2478/hukin-2022-0050			SEP 8 2022	2022	Myofascial therapy has already become one of the basic forms of treatment of the locomotor system. One form of the therapy is Self-Myofascial Release, in which external force is applied to the body with the help of special rollers (foam rolling, FR). The aim of the study was to investigate the direct effect of Self-Myofascial Release of hamstring muscles using a foam roller on the bioelectric activity of selected muscles (biceps femoris and gluteus maximus) during squats. The study involved 40 male soccer players, who were randomly divided into two groups: experimental and control. The tests used did not show significant differences in the analyzed variables before the experiment (baseline measurement p > 0.05), while significant intergroup differences appeared for subsequent measurements, both for reference MVC values (p < 0.01 - for % gluteus maximus MVC, p < 0.001 - for % biceps femoris MVC) and for raw EMG values (p < 0.01 gluteus maximus and p < 0.001 - for % 0.0001 for biceps femoris). The use of self-myofascial release within the hamstring muscles leads to changes in the electrical potential of the muscles of the lower limb.		[Michalski, Tomasz; Krol, Tomasz; Michalik, Piotr; Rutkowska, Magdalena; Dabrowska-Galas, Magdalena] Med Univ Silesia, Sch Hlth Sci Katowice, Dept Kinesitherapy & Special Methods, Katowice, Poland; [Ziaja, Damian] Med Univ Silesia, Sch Hlth Sci Katowice, Dept Physiotherapy, Katowice, Poland; [Kuszewski, Michal] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Inst Physiotherapy & Hlth Sci, Katowice, Poland; [Krol, Tomasz] Med Univ Silesia, Dept Kinesitherapy & Special Methods, Medykow 12, PL-40752 Katowice, Poland								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:000850738600006	33	Article; Article		
J	Bialy, Maciej; Kublin, Kamil; Brzuszkiewicz-Kuzmicka, Grazyna; Gnat, Rafal								Myofascial and Movement Tests after Anterior Cruciate Ligament Reconstruction								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				83	1			67	75		10.2478/hukin-2022-0052			SEP 8 2022	2022	Functional evaluation after anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction is one of the key points involved in decision making about the return of patients to full and unrestricted physical activity. The objective of the present study was to verify whether myofascial chain NEURAC (R) and Functional Movement Screen (FMS (TM)) tests can be used to detect functional differences between the operated and the non-operated extremity in patients after anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction. A total of 83 young and physically active recreational athletes (mean age: 26.9 +/- 9.7 years) who underwent primary single-bundle anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction using an autogenous semitendinosus-gracilis tendon graft were evaluated between the 3rd and the 4th month after surgery. Subjects received a similar, standardised rehabilitation programme. Two experienced raters, blinded to the objective of this study, were involved in functional outcome data collection using myofascial NEURAC (R) and Functional Movement Screen tests. Only two of the NEURAC (R) tests showed significant differences in the results between the operated and the non-operated extremity: the supine bridging (mean 2.92 vs. 3.51 points, p < 0.001) and prone bridging (mean 2.76 vs. 3.67 points, p < 0.001) tests. Additionally, the summary score of all NEURAC (R) tests significantly differed between extremities (mean 12.08 for the operated vs. 13.67 points for the non-operated extremity, p < 0.001). Myofascial tests (supine and prone bridging) in comparison with a battery of Functional Movement Screen tests seem to be more effective in detecting functional differences between the operated and the non-operated extremity at the early stage of recovery after anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction.		[Bialy, Maciej] Sport Klin, Funct Diagnost Lab, Scanmed Sport, Zory, Poland; [Bialy, Maciej; Kublin, Kamil; Gnat, Rafal] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ, Inst Physiotherapy & Hlth Sci, Katowice, Poland; [Brzuszkiewicz-Kuzmicka, Grazyna] Jozef Pilsudski Univ Phys Educ, Fac Rehabil, Warsaw, Poland; [Bialy, Maciej] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ, Inst Physiotherapy & Hlth Sci, Katowice, Poland								8							Sport Sciences	WOS:000850738600008	30	Article; Article		
J	Gou, Huancheng; Zhang, Hui								Better Offensive Strategy in Basketball: A Two-Point or a Three-Point Shot?								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				83	1			287	295		10.2478/hukin-2022-0061			SEP 8 2022	2022	To better understand and explore the development trend of the offensive strategies of the world's top basketball leagues, this study took NBA shooting data in the regular seasons from 2009/2010 to 2018/2019 as the samples and analysed the relationships between the shooting score ratio and game win probability, and the practical application of offensive strategies in games. The results showed that (1) increasing the number and the percentage of three-point offenses in the game can improve the probability of winning. However, too many two-point shots can affect the team's winning probability to a certain extent. (2) The strong teams in the NBA focused more on the outside offense, while the weak teams focused more on the inside offense. (3) Statistical data further showed that whether a team's opponent is strong or weak, taking the offensive strategy that tends toward the outside shot can lead to a higher game win probability than the offensive strategy that tends toward the inside offense.		[Gou, Huancheng; Zhang, Hui] Zhejiang Univ, Coll Educ, Dept Sport Sci, Hangzhou 310058, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Hui] Zhejiang Univ, Coll Educ, Dept Sport Sci, Hangzhou 310058, Peoples R China								18							Sport Sciences	WOS:000850738600028	26	Article; Article		
J	You, Chieh-Hsin; Huang, Chi-Huang								Effects of Leg Stiffness Regulated by Different Landing Styles on Vertical Drop Jump Performance								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				83	1			29	37		10.2478/hukin-2022-0066			SEP 8 2022	2022	The purpose of this study was to investigate the effects of stiffness regulated by landing styles on drop jump performance. Twenty-four male lacrosse athletes performed drop jumps with stiff (ST), self-selected (SS), and soft (SF) landing from a 0.42 m box. Leg stiffness, ground contact time, depth, jump height, maximum ground reaction force (GRF), GRF at the start of the propulsive phase, mean power, peak power, and the reactive strength index (RSI) were calculated. The results showed that jump height and the RSI had strong correlations to power production in all drop jump styles. Power would be a key factor to overall athletic performance. Repeated measures ANOVA showed significant differences (p < 0.05) in all variables among the three styles. Drop jumps with SS landing had comparable jump height to drop jumps with SF landing and power output to drop jumps with ST landing. Drop jumps with ST landing had significantly lower jump height, but higher GRF, power, and the RSI compared to drop jumps with SF landing. In drop jump testing, drop jumps with SS landing should be used if power and jump height were the major concerns; if the RSI was the major concern, drop jumps with ST landing should be used. Training with drop jumps, one of the main objectives should be increasing power output due to its significant correlation to jump height and the RSI in all conditions.		[You, Chieh-Hsin] Natl Taiwan Sport Univ, Grad Inst Sports Sci, 250,Wenhua 1st Rd, Taoyuan 33301, Taiwan; [Huang, Chi-Huang] Natl Taiwan Sport Univ, Dept Athlet Training & Hlth, Taoyuan, Taiwan; [You, Chieh-Hsin] Natl Taiwan Sport Univ, Grad Inst Sports Sci, 250,Wenhua 1st Rd, Taoyuan 33301, Taiwan								17							Sport Sciences	WOS:000850738600004	24	Article; Article		
J	Laurentino, Gilberto C.; Loenneke, Jeremy P.; Ugrinowitsch, Carlos; Aoki, Marcelo S.; Soares, Antonio G.; Roschel, Hamilton; Tricoli, Valmor								Blood-Flow-Restriction-Training-Induced Hormonal Response is not Associated with Gains in Muscle Size and Strength								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				83	1			235	243		10.2478/hukin-2022-0095			SEP 8 2022	2022	The aim of this study was to determine whether increases in post-exercise endocrine response to low-load resistance exercise with blood flow restriction and high-load resistance exercise would have association with increases in muscle size and strength after an 8-week training period. Twenty-nine untrained men were randomly allocated into three groups: low-load resistance exercise with (LL-BFR) or without blood flow restriction (LL), and high-load resistance exercise (HL). Participants from LL-BFR and LL groups performed leg extension exercise at 20% of one repetition maximum (1RM), four sets of 15 repetitions and the HL group performed four sets of eight repetitions at 80% 1RM. Before the first training session, growth hormone (GH), insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1), testosterone, cortisol, and lactate concentration were measured at rest and 15 min after the exercise. Quadriceps CSA and 1RM knee extension were assessed at baseline and after an 8-week training period. GH increased 15 min after exercise in the LL-BFR (p = 0.032) and HL (p < 0.001) groups, with GH concentration in the HL group being higher than in the LL group (p = 0.010). There was a time effect for a decrease in testosterone (p = 0.042) and an increase in cortisol (p = 0.005), while IGF-1 remained unchanged (p = 0.346). Both muscle size and strength were increased after training in LL-BFR and HL groups, however, these changes were not associated with the acute post-exercise hormone levels (p > 0.05). Our data suggest that other mechanisms than the acute post-exercise increase in systemic hormones induced by LL-BFR and HL produce changes in muscle size and strength.		[Laurentino, Gilberto C.; Ugrinowitsch, Carlos; Roschel, Hamilton; Tricoli, Valmor] Univ Sao Paulo, Sch Phys Educ & Sport, Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil; [Loenneke, Jeremy P.] Univ Mississippi, Dept Hlth Exercise Sci & Recreat Management, Keyser Ermin Appl Physiol Lab, University, MS 38677 USA; [Laurentino, Gilberto C.; Aoki, Marcelo S.] Univ Sao Paulo, Sch Arts Sci & Humanities, Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil; [Soares, Antonio G.] Univ Sao Paulo, Inst Biomed Sci, Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil; [Laurentino, Gilberto C.] Av Prof Mello Moraes 65, BR-05508030 Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil								19							Sport Sciences	WOS:000850738600023	24	Article; Article		
J	Barden, Craig; Thain, Peter K.								Injury surveillance in English youth basketball: A 5-season cohort study to inform injury prevention strategies								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				58				34	40		10.1016/j.ptsp.2022.08.005			NOV 2022	2022	Objectives: Describe the injury risk of English youth basketball, comparing game versus training injury incidence and burden. Design: 5 season (2013/14-2018/19) prospective cohort study.Setting: Basketball academy at an English sports college. Participants: Male basketball players (n = 110, mean age; 17.3 +/- 0.9 years). Main outcomes measures: Descriptive data regarding game and training injury incidence (injuries per 1000 athlete-exposures (AE)) and burden (severity x incidence) are provided with 95% confidence in-tervals (CI). Rate ratios (RR; 95% CI) were used to compare outcome measures, with results statistically significant if the 95% CI did not pass 1.0.Results: Fifty-four injuries were sustained during 13,350-AE (1666 games, 9684 training). Game injury incidence (12.0/100 0-AE, 95% CI 6.7-17.3) was significantly greater than training injury incidence (2.4/ 100 0-AE, 95% CI 1.4-3.3; RR = 5.1, 95% CI 2.8-9.2). Games had a significantly greater injury burden (216 days absence/1000-AE, 95% CI 121-311) than training (62 days absence/1000-AE, 95% CI 37-88; RR = 3.5, 95% CI 1.9-6.3). The ankle was the most injured body location (37%), whilst over 50% of injuries occurring through contact mechanisms. Conclusion: This study is the most comprehensive description of injury epidemiology in English youth basketball to date. This information can inform evidence-based injury prevention strategies to mitigate risk in this population. (c) 2022 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).		[Barden, Craig] South Gloucestershire & Stroud Coll, Sports Sci & Med Dept, SGS Sport, Bristol, England; [Barden, Craig] Univ Gloucestershire, Sch Sport & Exercise, Gloucester, England; [Thain, Peter K.] Birmingham City Univ, Sch Hlth Sci, Birmingham, England; [Barden, Craig] SGS Sports Acad, WISE Campus,New Rd, Bristol BS34 8LP, England; [Barden, Craig] SGS Sports Acad, WISE Campus,New Rd, Bristol BS34 8LP, England								12							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000877591900003	53	Article; Article		
J	Mills, Brian M.; Fort, Rodney								Performance Quality Preference Heterogeneity in Major League Baseball								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				24	3			352	373		10.1177/15270025221123318			APR 2023	2023	With few exceptions, the sports attendance demand literature assumes the intensity of fan responses to home and visiting team quality are homogeneous across the markets in a league. However, the theory of sports leagues makes no such assumption. In this paper, we empirically investigate heterogeneity in fan win preference intensity using Major League Baseball attendance. Using a generalized linear mixed model, we find evidence of substantial fan preference heterogeneity, toward both home and visiting team quality, across Major League Baseball markets. In addition to the demonstrated importance for empirical analysis, we detail how this also matters for league policy design.		[Mills, Brian M.] Univ Texas Austin, Dept Kinesiol & Hlth Educ, Austin, TX 78712 USA; [Fort, Rodney] Univ Michigan, Sport Management, Ann Arbor, MI 48109 USA; [Mills, Brian M.] Univ Texas Austin, 2109 San Jacinto Blvd,D3700, Austin, TX 78712 USA								4							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000851277800001	32	Article; Article		
J	Pompeo, Klauber Dalcero; da Rocha, Emmanuel Souza; Melo, Mirella Ayres; de Oliveira, Nathalia Trevisol; Oliveira, Daniel Fernandes; Sonda, Francesca Chaida; Santos, Patricia Freitas; Rodrigues, Rodrigo; Baroni, Bruno M.; Vaz, Marco A.								Can we replace exercises targeted on core/hip muscles by exercises targeted on leg/foot muscles in women with patellofemoral pain? A randomized controlled trial								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				58				1	7		10.1016/j.ptsp.2022.08.004			NOV 2022	2022	Objective: To verify the effects of replacing exercises targeted on core/hip muscles by exercises targeted on leg/foot muscles in a rehabilitation program for patellofemoral pain (PFP).Design: Randomized Controlled Trial.Participants: Fifty women with PFP.Methods: PFP participants were randomized into the standard rehabilitation group (SRG, n = 25) or distal exercise group (DEG, n = 25). Knee pain, patient-reported function, dynamic knee valgus and muscle strength were measured at baseline and after six and twelve weeks of the program start.Results: SRG and DEG presented similar responses to rehabilitation (except for muscle strengthening). Knee pain reduced after 6 weeks (SRG: -37.7%, ES = 1.23; DEG:-30%, ES = 0.93) and 12 weeks (SRG: -47.4%, ES = 1.53; DEG: -43.3%, ES = 1.46). Patient-reported function improved after 6 weeks (SRG: +7.3%, ES = 0.45; DEG: +3.8%, ES = 0.22) and 12 weeks (SRG: +14.1%, ES = 0.80; DEG: +8.8%, ES = 0.50). Dynamic knee valgus reduced after 12 weeks (SRG: -29.7%, ES = 0.38; DEG: -34.5%, ES = 0.32). Both groups experienced increases in knee extension strength (SRG: +9%, ES = 0.28; DEG: +6%, ES = -0.29), but only SRG had strength gains for hip abduction (+10%, ES = 0.36) and extension (+11%, ES = 0.44).Conclusion: Exercises targeted on core/hip muscles can be replaced by exercises targeted on leg/foot muscles in a lower limb exercise-based rehabilitation program for women with PFP.Clinical trial registration: NCT03663595.(c) 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Pompeo, Klauber Dalcero; da Rocha, Emmanuel Souza; Melo, Mirella Ayres; Sonda, Francesca Chaida; Santos, Patricia Freitas; Vaz, Marco A.] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Sul, Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil; [de Oliveira, Nathalia Trevisol; Oliveira, Daniel Fernandes; Baroni, Bruno M.] Fed Univ Hlth Sci Porto Alegre, Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil; [Santos, Patricia Freitas; Vaz, Marco A.] Phys Physiotherapy Ctr, Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil; [Rodrigues, Rodrigo] Serra Gaucha Univ Ctr, Caxias Do Sul, RS, Brazil; [Vaz, Marco A.] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Sul, Lab Pesquisa Exercicio, Av Felizardo 750, BR-90690200 Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil; [Vaz, Marco A.] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Sul, Lab Pesquisa Exercicio, Av Felizardo 750, BR-90690200 Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil								15							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000874990400001	39	Article; Article		
J	Eldridge, David; Pocock, Chris; Pulling, Craig; Kearney, Philip; Dicks, Matt								Visual exploratory activity and practice design: Perceptions of experienced coaches in professional football academies								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	2			370	381		10.1177/17479541221122412			APR 2023	2023	The aim of this study was to explore: (a) football coaches' perceptions of visual exploratory activity (VEA) and (b) the practice activities designed by coaches believed to develop VEA. Semi-structured interviews were conducted with nine coaches who held the UEFA A or B Licence in coaching football. All coaches worked in an English professional football club's academy and held different coaching positions. Thematic analysis of the data identified three themes: Importance of VEA, Development of VEA and Delivery of VEA (e.g., practice design, visual aids, technology and questioning). The interviews revealed that all coaches hold VEA as an integral part of player performance yet are unsure of how to develop this behaviour. They deemed that VEA should be developed at a young age to enable players to reach an elite level of performance. Despite these views, coaches did not feel that VEA should be a particular focus on individual sessions and believed the VEA behaviour would be drawn out from practices used by coaches. There was a range of activities (N = 33) discussed by the coaches when they were asked to draw and provide examples of practices that they would use to develop VEA. The percentage of planned practices that were deemed active decision-making activities (70%) was greater compared to non-active decision-making activities (30%). This study has implications for the planning and interventions coaches place on practices to develop VEA. Future research should consider investigating the impact different types of practice have on performers' VEA.		[Eldridge, David; Pocock, Chris; Pulling, Craig] Univ Chichester, Chichester Inst Sport Nursing & Allied Hlth, Chichester, England; [Kearney, Philip] Univ Limerick, Sport & Human Performance Res Ctr, Limerick, Ireland; [Dicks, Matt] Univ Portsmouth, Sch Sport Hlth & Exercise Sci, Portsmouth, Hants, England; [Eldridge, David] Univ Chichester, Chichester Inst Sport Nursing & Allied Hlth, Chichester, England								11							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000849904500001	58	Article; Article		
J	Barden, Craig; Watkins, Ross; Stokes, Keith A.; McKay, Carly D.								Barriers and facilitators to implementing the <i>Activate injury prevention exercise programme</i> - A qualitative study of schoolboy rugby coaches								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	6			1317	1330		10.1177/17479541221115021			DEC 2022	2022	The rugby-specific Activate injury prevention exercise programme was deemed efficacious in a randomised controlled trial and subsequently disseminated nationwide by the Rugby Football Union (English rugby union governing body) in 2017. However, no assessment has been made of the factors influencing Activate implementation in an applied setting. Consequently, this study sought to assess the barriers and facilitators to coaches implementing Activate in English schoolboy rugby. This qualitative study adopted a framework approach, using four a-priori themes influencing injury prevention implementation: awareness, motivational determinants, volitional determinants and socio-environmental factors. A purposive sample of schoolboy rugby coaches were recruited from schools nationwide, participating in semi-structured, one-on-one interviews (n = 10). Transcripts were thematically coded. Participants had positive perceptions towards Activate, although only six adopted the programme. Participants reported that players were generally unaware of the programme, with some suggesting this was not an issue as coaches made the decision to adopt Activate. Participants focused heavily upon the use of resources to develop coaches' awareness, knowledge and confidence. No participant implemented Activate as initially designed, influenced by time and engagement, instead incorporating it within training drills rather than as a block at the beginning of the session. Participants adapted the programme to make it suitable for multiple sports. Some participants reported asking players to deliver Activate, despite their lack of awareness, raising concerns around implementation. Participants heavily adapted Activate delivery to suit their contexts. How this affects the effectiveness of Activate to reduce injury risk is unknown and should be investigated. Player-specific dissemination strategies should be considered if these individuals act as delivery-agents.		[Barden, Craig; Watkins, Ross; Stokes, Keith A.; McKay, Carly D.] Univ Bath, Dept Hlth, Bath BA2 7AY, Avon, England; [Barden, Craig] Univ Gloucestershire, Sch Sport & Exercise, Gloucester, England; [Stokes, Keith A.] Rugby Football Union, Twickenham, England; [McKay, Carly D.] Univ Bath, Ctr Motivat & Hlth Behav Change, Bath, Avon, England; [Barden, Craig] Univ Bath, Dept Hlth, Bath BA2 7AY, Avon, England								13							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000849908300001	51	Article; Article		
J	Possamai, Leonardo Trevisol; de Aguiar, Rafael Alves; Borszcz, Fernando Klitzke; do Nascimento Salvador, Paulo Cesar; de Lucas, Ricardo Dantas; Turnes, Tiago								Muscle Oxidative Capacity <i>in Vivo</i> Is Associated With Physiological Parameters in Trained Rowers								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	4			1020	1027		10.1080/02701367.2022.2100862			OCT 2 2023	2023	Purpose: The muscle oxygen uptake (mVO(2)) kinetics following exercise, measured by near-infrared spectroscopy, has been used as a functional evaluation of muscle oxidative metabolism. This study aimed to determine the mVO(2) off-kinetics and verify the relationship of the recovery rate of mVO(2) (k) with time-trial performance and different aerobic parameters in trained rowers. Methods: Eleven male rowers (age: 20 +/- 3 years; VO(2)max: 4.28 +/- 0.35 L.min(-1)) used a rowing ergometer to perform (I) an incremental test to determine the maximal oxygen uptake (VO(2)max) and peak power output (P-peak); (II) several visits to determine maximal lactate steady state (MLSS); and (III) a 2000-m rowing ergometer performance test. Also, one test to determine mVO(2) off-kinetics of the vastus lateralis muscle using a repeated arterial occlusions protocol. Results: The mVO(2) generated a good monoexponential fit (R-2 = 0.960 +/- 0.030; SEE = 0.041 +/- 0.018%.s(-1)). The k of mVO(2) (2.06 +/- 0.58 min(-1)) was associated with relative VO(2)max (r = 0.79), power output at MLSS (r = 0.76), and P-peak (r = 0.83); however, it was not related with 2000-m rowing performance (r = -0.38 to 0.52; p >.152). Conclusion: These findings suggest that although not associated with rowing performance, the mVO(2) off-kinetics determined after a submaximal isometric knee extension may be a practical and less-exhaustive approach than invasive responses and incremental tests to assess the muscle oxidative metabolism during a training program. HIGHLIGHTS 1) The present study showed that the NIRS-derived mVO(2) off-kinetics from the vastus lateralis can be used as a functional tool of skeletal muscle oxidative metabolism in rowers. 2) The results demonstrated that the recovery rate of mVO(2) was well correlated with important aerobic parameters such as VO2 max, maximal lactate steady state, and peak power output during an incremental test.		[Possamai, Leonardo Trevisol; Borszcz, Fernando Klitzke; do Nascimento Salvador, Paulo Cesar; de Lucas, Ricardo Dantas; Turnes, Tiago] Federal Univ Santa Catarina, Florianopolis, SC, Brazil; [de Aguiar, Rafael Alves] Santa Catarina State Univ, Florianopolis, SC, Brazil; [Possamai, Leonardo Trevisol] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Sports Ctr, Possamai Phys Effort Lab, Florianopolis, SC, Brazil								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000849754700001	46	Article; Article		
J	Zuber, Claudia								Construction and validation of the German coach-rating scale to assess achievement-motivated behavior in team sports (AMBIS-T)								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	1			13	23		10.1177/17479541221122430			FEB 2023	2023	Achievement motivation has been identified as a relevant criterion to assess athletic talent. In the context of talent selection decisions, the popular use of self-report questionnaires has presented higher risks of social desirability. Consequently, a shift towards more robust methods such as the assessment of achievement-motivated behavior with the coach-rating scale achievement-motivated behavior in individual sports was suggested.(I) The purpose of this study was to adapt and validate this assessment from individual to team sports, involving 48 German-speaking coaches examining the achievement-motivated behaviors of their 527 youth athletes as well as the self-ratings of 250 athletes. The achievement-motivated behavior in team sports was found to display a good fit with the observed data (e.g., CFI = .98; RMSEA = .04) and to measure reliably the factors proactivity, ambition, and commitment with 12 items (test-retest reliability r(tt) >=.75; Cronbach's alpha alpha >= .80 for all scales). With the exceptions of the proactivity scale for interrater reliability, the commitment scale for concurrent criterion validity and the ambition scale for construct validity, psychometric properties were found satisfactory. The use of averaged ratings of two evaluating coaches is recommended to reduce possible bias in the assessment of achievement-motivated behaviors in team sports.		[Zuber, Claudia] Univ Bern, Inst Sport Sci, Bremgartenstr 145, CH-3012 Bern, Switzerland; [Zuber, Claudia] Univ Bern, Inst Sport Sci, Bremgartenstr 145, CH-3012 Bern, Switzerland								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000849428100001	53	Article; Article		
J	Giatsis, George; Tilp, Markus								Spike Arm Swing Techniques of Olympics Male and Female Elite Volleyball Players (1984-2021)								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				21	3			465	472		10.52082/jssm.2022.465			SEP 2022	2022	In the last decades, indoor volleyball has experienced significant rule changes and a high player specialization in both sexes. Different spike attack arm swing techniques have developed which might affect performance and risk of injury. While a variety of arm swing techniques was already shown in world class beach volleyball players, it is unclear if this is also true for world class indoor volleyball. Therefore, the purpose of this study was to assess the spike attack arm swing techniques of Olympic volleyball winners and finalists (1984-2021) and to investigate possible differences between sex, playing position, scoring system, and compared to beach volleyball. Eighty-two male (M) and 85 female (F) players were assessed from video recordings from ten competitions. Five different arm swing techniques in the cocking phase (Straight, Bow-and-arrow high, Bow-and-arrow low, Snap, Circular) were classified by two experts. The most frequent technique for both sexes was the Circular (M = 40.2%; F = 38.8%), followed by Snap (M = 28.0%; F = 23.5%), Bow-and-arrow low (M = 20.7%; F = 21.2%), Bow-and-arrow high (M = 7.3% F = 11.8%), and Straight (M = 3.7%; F = 4.7%). Bow-and-arrow high and Straight techniques were significantly less used than other techniques in both sexes. There were no significant differences (p > 0.05) in arm swing techniques between sexes, playing positions, and scoring system but significant differences (p < 0.001) to beach volleyball. Although most volleyball textbooks only describe the Bow-and-arrow techniques, most of the world class indoor volleyball players used Circular and Snap arm swing techniques. Reasons for that could be the implicit knowledge of players (and coaches) regarding increased performance (ball speed) and injury prevention. Based on these results we suggest to critically revise arm swing technique training especially for young players and players with shoulder problems.		[Giatsis, George] Aristotle Univ Thessaloniki, Dept Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Thessaloniki, Greece; [Tilp, Markus] Karl Franzens Univ Graz, Inst Human Movement Sci Sport & Hlth, Graz, Austria; [Tilp, Markus] Karl Franzens Univ Graz, Inst Human Movement Sci Sport & Hlth, Graz, Austria								7							Sport Sciences	WOS:001009467100004	38	Article; Article		
J	Wing, Christopher; Hart, Nicolas H.; Ma'ayah, Fadi; Nosaka, Kazunori								Impact of Sudden Rule Changes on Player Injuries and Performance: Insights from Australian Football								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				21	3			458	464		10.52082/jssm.2022.458			SEP 2022	2022	This study investigated the effects of reduced quarter time due to COVID-19 pandemic rule changes, on running performance and injuries in Australian Football. Microsensor data for eight matches performed by the same 17 players were compared between the 2019 (standard) and 2020 (COVID-19) seasons using linear and generalised mixed models. Injury rates were assessed in 34 players across the full 2019 season, and 32 players across the full 2020 season. The total distance (ES = 1.28 [0.55 to 2.02]), high-speed (>18 km/h) (ES = 0.44 [-0.24 to 1.12]) and very highspeed (>24 km/h) (ES = 0.27 [-0.41 to 0.94]) distances, PlayerLoadTM (ES = 0.96 [0.25 to 1.67]), high-intensity efforts (ES = 0.48 [-0.20 to 1.16]), and accelerations (ES = 0.33 [-0.34 to 1.01]) were smaller (p <= 0.01) for the 2020 than the 2019 season. Expressed relative to playing time, distance (ES=-0.38 [-1.06 to 0.30]), PlayerLoadTM (ES = -0.27 [-0.94 to 0.41]), and acceleraincreased the likelihood of time loss injuries.		[Wing, Christopher; Ma'ayah, Fadi; Nosaka, Kazunori] Edith Cowan Univ, Ctr Human Performance, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, Joondalup, WA, Australia; [Hart, Nicolas H.] Univ Notre Dame Australia, Inst Hlth Res, Fremantle, WA, Australia; [Hart, Nicolas H.] Flinders Univ S Australia, Caring Futures Inst, Coll Nursing & Hlth Sci, Adelaide, SA, Australia; [Ma'ayah, Fadi] Curtin Univ, Sch Educ, Bentley, WA, Australia; [Hart, Nicolas H.; Nosaka, Kazunori] Edith Cowan Univ, Exercise Med Res Inst, Joondalup, WA, Australia; [Hart, Nicolas H.] Queensland Univ Technol, Fac Hlth, Sch Nursing, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [Wing, Christopher] Hlth Sci Edith Cowan Univ, Ctr Human Performance, Sch Med, 270 Joondalup Dr, Joondalup, WA 6027, Australia; [Wing, Christopher] Hlth Sci Edith Cowan Univ, Ctr Human Performance, Sch Med, 270 Joondalup Dr, Joondalup, WA 6027, Australia								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:000860492900001	30	Article; Article		
J	Souissi, Hichem; Souissi, Mohamed Abdelkader; Trabelsi, Omar; Ben Chikha, Anis; Gharbi, Adnene; Souissi, Nizar								Peer-to-peer online video feedback with pedagogical activity improves the snatch learning during the COVID-19-induced confinement in young weightlifting athletes								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	6			2151	2159		10.1177/17479541221122385			DEC 2023	2023	The lack of training caused by the COVID-19 pandemic could have significant consequences on the performance and health of athletes. The aim of the present study was to test the effects of two innovative distance education methods on improving motor skills in weightlifting. We randomized 35 children (aged 10 to 12) into groups of peer-to-peer online video feedback with a pedagogical activity (P-VF-PA), peer-to-peer online video feedback only (P-VF), and control group (CONT). Learners underwent a test one week before (T0) and one day after (T1) an eight-session training intervention and a retention test session a week later (T2). Kinovea was used to measure the kinematic parameters of the snatch performance. After the distance learning sessions, the training with the P-VF-PA method improved most of the kinematic parameters compared to the P-VF method, and the advantages derived from its application persisted in the retention test (e.g., the difference between the right side and left side distances of the bar trajectory Diff-Tr (T1 vs. T0: 42.32 +/- 41.33%, Hedges' g = 1.16, p < 0.01; T2 vs. T0: 37.82 +/- 37.57%, Hedges' g = 1.37, p < 0.05)). In conclusion, distance motor learning based on the P-VF-PA method improved performance and technical knowledge of the snatch in 10-12 years weightlifters.		[Souissi, Hichem; Souissi, Mohamed Abdelkader; Trabelsi, Omar; Ben Chikha, Anis; Gharbi, Adnene; Souissi, Nizar] Natl Observ Sport, Phys Act Sport & Hlth Res Unit, Tunis, Tunisia; [Souissi, Hichem; Trabelsi, Omar; Gharbi, Adnene] Sfax Univ, High Inst Sport & Phys Educ, Sfax, Tunisia; [Souissi, Mohamed Abdelkader] Virtual Univ, Higher Inst Educ & Continuous Training, Tunis, Tunisia; [Ben Chikha, Anis; Souissi, Nizar] Manouba Univ, High Inst Sport & Phys Educ Ksar Said, Manouba, Tunisia; [Souissi, Mohamed Abdelkader] Virtual Univ, Higher Inst Educ & Continuous Training, Tunis, Tunisia; [Souissi, Mohamed Abdelkader] Natl Observ Sport, Phys Act Sport & Hlth Res Unit, UR18JS01, Tunis, Tunisia								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000849619200001	39	Article; Article		
J	Ceylan, Bayram; Tascan, Mesut Burak; Simenko, Jozef; Balci, Sukru Serdar								Habit or lack of education? Hypohydration is present in elite senior judo athletes even during a weight-stable training camp								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	6			2189	2197		10.1177/17479541221122433			DEC 2023	2023	It has been well-documented that high-level judo athletes presented a high level of hypohydration during weight-cutting and competition periods. However, there is a lack of studies investigating the hydration status of high-level judo athletes during a weight-stable training period. Therefore, this study aimed to investigate elite judo athletes' hydration status, body mass change, and fluid intake during a weight-stable training camp. Twenty-seven judo athletes (women n = 8, men n = 19, body weight = 79.6 +/- 20.9 kg) from the senior national judo team voluntarily participated in this study. Data were collected in the morning after waking up and before and after the morning and evening training sessions. On the second day, the measurements were taken again in the morning after waking up. Urine-specific gravity (USG) was classified as hydrated (USG < 1.020) and hypohydrated (USG >= 1.020). The athletes' USG values measured on two consecutive mornings increased (1.025 +/- 0.007 to 1.029 +/- 0.006) during 24 h, in which athletes performed judo training in the morning and evening. Moreover, sex and weight category did not affect the changes in USG values (p > .05). Most of the elite judo athletes presented hypohydration (92.6%). The relationship between the fluid intake of the athletes and the changes in USG and body weight values during 24 h was not significant (p > .05). The current study's findings revealed that high-level judo athletes present a high level of hypohydration even during a weight-stable training camp. Furthermore, the training sessions during the experiment period (24 h) worsened the hydration status of the senior athletes in all weight categories for both women and men.		[Ceylan, Bayram] Kastamonu Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Coaching Educ, Kastamonu, Turkey; [Tascan, Mesut Burak] Hacettepe Univ, Fac Phys Therapy & Rehabil, Dept Sport Physiotherapy, Ankara, Turkey; [Simenko, Jozef] Univ Hertfordshire, Sch Life & Med Sci, Hatfield, Herts, England; [Balci, Sukru Serdar] Selcuk Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Coaching Educ, Konya, Turkey; [Ceylan, Bayram] Kastamonu Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Kuzeykent Campus, Kastamonu, Turkey								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000848623900001	45	Article; Article		
J	Ricci, Jeanette M.; Currie, Katharine D.; Astorino, Todd A.; Erickson, Karl; Pfeiffer, Karin A.								Program Evaluation and Preliminary Efficacy of Fitness and Skill-Based High-Intensity Interval Training in Physical Education								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	4			1042	1052		10.1080/02701367.2022.2110557			OCT 2 2023	2023	Previous school-based high-intensity interval training (HIIT) interventions have focused on the quantity of physical activity (PA) achieved during physical education (PE) rather than students' PE experiences, including enjoyment. Purpose: To evaluate the feasibility of a fitness- and skill based HIIT intervention guided by the Self Determination Theory. Method: For this pretest-posttest randomized controlled 6-week pilot study, 4-5(th) grade students (15 boys, 30 girls; age = 10.5 +/- 0.9 years) completed a 16-19-minute HIIT circuit (INT); whereas, 22 students (10 boys, 12 girls; age = 10.5 +/- 0.9 years) engaged in regular PE (CON). Two-way mixed ANCOVA tests were performed to assess preliminary efficacy. Results: Participants reported favorable program satisfaction (mean 3.6 +/- 1.5 out of 5). The physical educator reported a high feasibility survey score (31/35), and themes emerging from a program acceptability interview included positive perceptions of the HIIT program and strategies for future implementation. A large effect size was evident for cardiorespiratory fitness (eta p(2) = 0.26), as VO2peak increased in INT from 53.6 +/- 6.1 to 56.9 +/- 7.3 ml/kg/min and decreased in CON (53.9 +/- 7.0 to 52.4 +/- 10.4 ml/kg/min). Students in INT exhibited greater amounts of moderate-to-vigorous PA and vigorous PA during PE versus CON, based on accelerometer data (23.4 +/- 5.0 vs. 15.7 +/- 4.7 min/hr, eta p(2) = 0.45; 4.5 +/- 2.6 vs. 2.3 +/- 1.3 min/hr; eta p(2) = 0.27, respectively). Conclusions: Findings support the feasibility of this fitness- and skill-based HIIT program and may be a valuable addition to elementary school PE programs.		[Ricci, Jeanette M.; Currie, Katharine D.; Erickson, Karl; Pfeiffer, Karin A.] Michigan State Univ, E Lansing, MI 48824 USA; [Astorino, Todd A.] Calif State Univ San Marcos, San Marcos, TX USA; [Ricci, Jeanette M.] Michigan State Univ, Dept Kinesiol, E Lansing, MI 48824 USA								8							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000849047800001	40	Article; Article		
J	Kruger, Stephanie; Moore, Lee; Viljoen, Wayne; Lambert, Mike; Readhead, Clint; Kraak, Wilbur								Legal and illegal ruck cleanouts in South African non-professional youth rugby								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	6			2082	2090		10.1177/17479541221122439			DEC 2023	2023	The ruck area is responsible for the second-highest number of rugby union injuries, therefore it is necessary to investigate and understand the ruck better for improved player safety. The study aimed to investigate and compare incidents of legal and illegal ruck cleanouts in non-professional youth rugby. Using Nacpsort Scout Plus software, 118 South African Rugby Union under 18 Youth Week tournament matches were coded between 2015 and 2019. In total, 35,545 ruck cleanouts were coded, of which 32,641 (91.8%) were legal and 2904 (8.2%) were illegal. Of the 2904 illegal cleanouts, 2676 (92.2%) were deemed 'not dangerous' and 228 (7.8%) were considered 'dangerous'. The 'dangerous' ruck cleanouts represented 0.6% of the total ruck cleanouts. Of the most common illegal ruck cleanouts, 'not supporting own body weight' were mostly 'not dangerous' (2498; 99.4%, p = 0.01); and all 'neck rolls' were considered 'dangerous' (147; 100.0%, p = 0.02). The findings of the study suggest player behaviour can still be improved, with regular participation in regular safe and effective technique training drills. The risk of injury during the ruck can further be influenced positively by coaches, through regular coaching and training on safe and effective ruck techniques.		[Kruger, Stephanie; Kraak, Wilbur] Stellenbosch Univ, Dept Exercise Sport & Lifestyle Med, Div Sport Sci, ZA-7601 Stellenbosch, South Africa; [Moore, Lee] Univ Bath, Dept Hlth, Bath, Avon, England; [Viljoen, Wayne; Readhead, Clint] South African Rugby Union, SARU House, Newlands, South Africa; [Viljoen, Wayne; Lambert, Mike; Readhead, Clint] Univ Cape Town, Dept Human Biol, Cape Town, South Africa; [Kraak, Wilbur] Stellenbosch Univ, Dept Exercise Sport & Lifestyle Med, Div Sport Sci, ZA-7601 Stellenbosch, South Africa								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000847548800001	39	Article; Article		
J	Rogers, Rebecca R.; Beardsley, Kalee G.; Cumbie, Peighton E.; Ballmann, Christopher G.								Ammonia Inhalants Enhance Psychophysiological Responses and Performance During Repeated High Intensity Exercise								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	4			1035	1041		10.1080/02701367.2022.2104447			OCT 2 2023	2023	Purpose: Ammonia inhalants (NH3) are anecdotally used in competition by athletes for their purported stimulant effects. However, evidence on the efficacy of NH3 is conflicting, and little to no studies to date have investigated its effect on repeated exercise. The purpose of this study was to examine the effects of NH3 on psychophysiological responses and performance during repeated high-intensity exercise. Methods: In a counterbalanced crossover design, physically active females completed two repeated high-intensity sprint trials with a different treatment: Control (CON; water) or Ammonia Inhalants (NH3; 0.33 cc). For each trial, participants completed 3 x 15s Wingate anaerobic tests (WAnT) separated by 2 min of active recovery. Prior to each WAnT, participants took a single 3-s inhale of the corresponding treatment. After the succession of each WAnT, heart rate (HR) and rate of perceived exertion (RPE) were documented. Subjective feelings of alertness and "psyched up" energy were measured using a visual analog scale. Trials were separated by at least 48 hr. Results: The results indicate that over the WAnTs, mean power (p = .017) and peak power (p = .006) were significantly higher with NH3 compared to CON despite a lack of changes in fatigue index (p = .928). HR (p = .101) and RPE (p = .897) were not different with varying treatments. Perceived alertness (p = .010) and psyched-up energy (p = .002) were significantly higher with NH3 versus CON. Conclusion: These findings provide empirical support for the use of NH3 to improve repeated high-intensity exercise performance in females that may be underpinned by alterations in subjective alertness and energy.		[Rogers, Rebecca R.; Beardsley, Kalee G.; Cumbie, Peighton E.; Ballmann, Christopher G.] Samford Univ, 800 Lakeshore Dr, Birmingham, AL 35229 USA; [Ballmann, Christopher G.] Samford Univ, 800 Lakeshore Dr, Birmingham, AL 35229 USA								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000847403000001	37	Article; Article		
J	Teng, Jin; Qu, Feng; Shen, Siqin; Jia, Sheng-Wei; Lam, Wing-Kai								Effects of midsole thickness on ground reaction force, ankle stability, and sports performances in four basketball movements								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2022.2112747				2022	Changes in midsole thickness can influence cushioning and rearfoot stability in running, but no information has been established in basketball. This study aimed to investigate whether midsole thickness would alter ground reaction force, ankle stability and performance-related indicators in four basketball manoeuvres. Fifteen university basketball athletes performed lateral shuffle, forward sprint, counter-movement jump (CMJ) and drop landing in basketball shoes of five midsole thicknesses (Thinnest, Thin, Medium, Thick, Thickest). One-way repeated-measures ANOVA was performed on each of the biomechanics and performances variables and Friedman test was performed on comfort perceptions. Our findings found a significant midsole thickness effect on the lower extremity biomechanics (p < 0.05), with better traction (p = 0.019) and greater plantarflexion (p = 0.019) while sprinting with thinner shoe conditions. Thicker basketball shoes led to greater rearfoot inversion (p = 0.004) and a more significant inversion velocity peak (p = 0.019) during lateral shuffling. No significant difference in peak impact force or peak loading rate was observed between shoes during drop landing. These findings suggest that participants wearing basketball shoes with thicker midsole may lead to ankle instability during lateral shuffling manoeuvres. Wearing basketball shoes with thinner midsoles may be beneficial for sprint and jump performances.		[Teng, Jin; Qu, Feng] Beijing Sport Univ, Dept Sports Biomech, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Shen, Siqin] Ningbo Univ, Fac Engn, Ningbo, Peoples R China; [Shen, Siqin] Eotvos Lorand Univ, Savaria Inst Technol, Szombathely, Hungary; [Jia, Sheng-Wei] Li Ning China Sports Goods Co Ltd, Li Ning Sports Sci Res Ctr, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Lam, Wing-Kai] Sports Informat & External Affairs Ctr, Hong Kong Sports Inst, Sha Tin, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [Shen, Siqin] Univ Pannonia, Fac Engn, Veszprem, Hungary; [Lam, Wing-Kai] Sports Informat & External Affairs Ctr, Hong Kong Sports Inst, Sha Tin, Hong Kong, Peoples R China								16							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000848793500001	36	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Bertozzi, Filippo; Rabello, Rodrigo; Zago, Matteo; Esposito, Fabio; Sforza, Chiarella								Foot dominance and ball approach angle affect whole-body instep kick kinematics in soccer players								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2022.2110514				2022	Past investigations provided limited information regarding instep kicking kinematics in soccer. It is unclear how foot dominance and ball approach angle impact whole-body kinematics and consequently the ball velocity. We aimed to analyse the effects of the ball approach angle and the foot used on the whole-body kinematics of soccer players performing an instep kick. Twenty-four soccer players performed maximal instep kicks, using the dominant and non-dominant feet, with the ball stationary or rolling from four different directions. Whole-body motion was recorded during the kicking action and kinematic time-series were extracted and resampled to 200 points equally divided into kicking and follow-through phases. 1-D statistical parametric mapping two-way ANOVA tested for the effect of ball condition and foot dominance. Ball approach angle affected most of the swinging and support limb variables and some upper body variables. Performance-related variables such as CoM, foot, and shank velocities were reduced when the ball approached posteriorly. The linear and angular velocities of the swinging limb, and CoM vertical position, were higher when kicking with dominant foot. Based on these findings, as a practical implication, coaches should vary ball approach angles and the foot used during kicking drills to improve technical effectiveness in various situations.		[Bertozzi, Filippo; Rabello, Rodrigo; Zago, Matteo; Esposito, Fabio; Sforza, Chiarella] Univ Milan, Dept Biomed Sci Hlth, Milan, Italy; [Bertozzi, Filippo] Politecn Milan, Dept Mech Engn, Milan, Italy; [Bertozzi, Filippo] Politecn Milan, E4Sport Lab, Milan, Italy; [Bertozzi, Filippo] Univ Milan, Dept Biomed Sci Hlth, Milan, Italy; [Bertozzi, Filippo] Politecn Milan, Dept Mech Engn, Milan, Italy; [Bertozzi, Filippo] Politecn Milan, E4Sport Lab, Milan, Italy								4							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000843107400001	46	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Mogos, Stefan; Antonescu, Dinu; Stoica, Ioan-Cristian; D'Ambrosi, Riccardo								Superior rotational stability and lower re-ruptures rate after combined anteroelateral and anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction compared to isolated anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction: a 2-year prospective randomized clinical trial								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				51	4			371	378		10.1080/00913847.2022.2112914			JUL 4 2023	2023	Purpose: The purpose of the current prospective randomized clinical trial (RCT) was to compare the clinical outcomes of combined anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) and anterolateral ligament (ALL) reconstruction with those of isolated ACL reconstruction and evaluate the re-rupture rate between the two study groups. Methods: This prospective RCT included 58 patients (43 men and 15 women) who underwent ACL reconstruction, either isolated (Group I: 26 patients) or combined with the ALL reconstruction (Group II: 32 patients). Preoperatively, the two groups differed in age and rate of medial meniscal injuries. The patients were evaluated preoperatively and postoperatively during the time points corresponding to 6 (T-1) weeks, 12 (T-2) weeks, 6 (T-3) months, 12 (T-4) months, and 24 (T-5) months. The evaluation included the clinical examination (comprising Lachman test, Pivot Shift test, Range of Motion, and Rolimeter differential anterior laxity), the objective clinical score (Objective IKDC [The International Knee Documentation Committee] score), and the subjective clinical scores (comprising Subjective IKDC score, Lysholm score, and Tegner activity score). The postoperative complications of all the patients were recorded. Results: Both the groups reported a significant improvement in clinical scores during the final follow-up as compared to the preoperative value (p < 0.05). The only differences between the two groups were observed with respect to the pivot shift test during each follow-up, wherein more patients from group I reported a pivot shift test grade I as compared to group II (p < 0.05). Three patients from group I reported a re-rupture of the operated knee, whereas no patients from group II reported new ruptures (p = 0.041). Conclusions: Combined ACL and ALL reconstruction has proven to be more effective in obtaining a high grade of rotational knee stability during mid-term follow-up as compared to isolated ACL reconstruction along with a significantly lower rate of re-ruptures.		[Mogos, Stefan; Stoica, Ioan-Cristian] Foisor Orthopaed Hosp Bucharest, Bucharest, Romania; [Antonescu, Dinu; Stoica, Ioan-Cristian] Univ Med & Pharm Carol Davila Bucharest, Bucharest, Romania; [D'Ambrosi, Riccardo] IRCCS Ist Ortoped Galeazzi, Milan, Italy; [D'Ambrosi, Riccardo] Univ Milan, Dipartimento Sci Biomed Salute, Milan, Italy; [D'Ambrosi, Riccardo] IRCCS Ist Ortoped Galeazzi, Milan, Italy								21							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000841839300001	43	Article; Article		
J	Liu, Jun Ming; Knowlton, Christopher; Gauthier, Matthew; Tropp, Zach; Verma, Nikhil; Nicholson, Gregory; Romeo, Anthony; Zaferiou, Antonia								Roles of each leg in impulse generation in professional baseball pitchers: preliminary findings uncover the contribution of the back leg towards whole-body rotation								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2022.2108490				2022	This study examined the roles of each leg in generating linear and angular impulses during baseball pitching. Professional pitchers (n = 4) pitched from a force plate instrumented mound, and 6-11 successful fastball pitches were used for analyses. We compared linear and angular impulses across the back and front legs. Linear and angular impulses were calculated from ground reaction force (GRF) and moment about each global axis passing through the centre of mass (COM), respectively. Additionally, we analysed measures that control the moment: (1) GRF magnitude, (2) magnitude of the position vector from COM to the centre of pressure and (3) the angle between (1) and (2). We found that the back leg generated forward linear impulse and the front leg generated backward linear impulse for all pitchers. Surprisingly, we found that the back leg generated significantly greater positive angular impulse about a global leftward axis (from the mound towards first base) than did the front leg in all four pitchers. Furthermore, the back leg's moment about the leftward axis became positive after the magnitude of forward GRF decreased from its maximum, suggesting that the back leg's role transitioned from generating forward linear momentum to angular momentum.		[Liu, Jun Ming; Zaferiou, Antonia] Stevens Inst Technol, Dept Biomed Engn, Hoboken, NJ 07030 USA; [Knowlton, Christopher; Verma, Nikhil; Nicholson, Gregory] Rush Univ, Dept Orthoped Surg, Med Ctr, Chicago, IL USA; [Gauthier, Matthew] Univ Illinois, Dept Phys Therapy, Chicago, IL USA; [Tropp, Zach] Midwest Orthopaed Rush, Phys Therapy, Chicago, IL USA; [Verma, Nikhil; Nicholson, Gregory] Midwest Orthopaed Rush, Div Sports Med & Shoulder, Chicago, IL USA; [Romeo, Anthony] Duly Hlth & Care, Musculoskeletal Inst, Chicago, IL USA; [Zaferiou, Antonia] Stevens Inst Technol, Dept Biomed Engn, Hoboken, NJ 07030 USA								15							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000841137900001	17	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Fone, Zachary S.								You Booze, You Lose? Spillovers to Crime from Alcohol Sales at College Football Games								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				24	2			193	240		10.1177/15270025221114878			FEB 2023	2023	In recent years, many schools have lifted their alcohol sales bans at college football games, possibly as a tool to increase attendance and revenues. However, spillovers to crime deserve consideration, given the research that links alcohol consumption and availability to crime. Alcohol sales may spill over to crime through their impacts on attendance, preferences for alcohol consumption among fans, and endogenous changes to policing and enforcement, although the net effect on crime is theoretically ambiguous. Using data from the National Incident-Based Reporting System (NIBRS) over the 2005 to 2016 period for law enforcement agencies that serve 33 Football Bowl Subdivision (FBS) schools, and utilizing difference-in-differences (DD) and triple-differences empirical strategies (leveraging variation in pre-vs. post-sales periods, home vs. away game days, and sales-adopting vs. non-adopting schools), I find that alcohol sales are associated with reductions in arrests for liquor law violations (83.5 percent) and disorderly conduct (81.0 percent) on home game days.		[Fone, Zachary S.] Montana State Univ, Dept Agr Econ & Econ, Initiat Regulat & Appl Econ Anal, Bozeman, MT 59717 USA; [Fone, Zachary S.] US Air Force Acad, Off Labor & Econ Anal, 2354 Fairchild Dr, Usaf Acad, CO 80840 USA								3							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000842695600001	46	Article; Article		
J	Ferdinands, Rene E. D.; Singh, Utkarsh								Investigating the biomechanical validity of the V-spine angle technique in cricket fast bowling								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	4			1091	1101		10.1177/17479541221108252			AUG 2023	2023	The effective utilisation of braking ground reaction forces is considered an essential biomechanical characteristic of fast bowling in cricket. The configuration of the trunk and legs during the delivery stride phase has been hypothesised to increase braking forces, causing the upper body segments to increase their angular momentum and thereby increase ball release speed. This study investigated the relationship between V-spine angle, front shank angle (plant angle) and front knee angle with braking ground reaction forces and ball release speed. Three-dimensional kinematic and kinetic analyses were performed for 17 male pace bowlers (17.2 +/- 1.7 years) of New South Wales grade club level using data from a Cortex 2.0 motion analysis system (200 Hz) and Kistler force plates (1000 Hz). V-spine angle was strongly and significantly correlated with braking ground reaction force (r = -0.691), plant angle (r = -0.806) and front knee angle (r = -0.606). In addition, stepwise multiple linear regression analysis revealed that front shank angle was the strongest predictor of braking ground reaction force. The data suggests that V-spine angle and plant angle may play an important role in generating high braking ground reaction forces in bowling, with the front knee angle possibly playing a supporting role. Coaches may need to consider these findings when assessing the techniques of pace bowlers.		[Ferdinands, Rene E. D.] Univ Sydney, Fac Med & Hlth, Sydney Sch Hlth Sci, Discipline Exercise & Sport Sci, Sydney, NSW 2006, Australia; [Singh, Utkarsh] James Cook Univ, Coll Healthcare Sci, Sport & Exercise Sci, Townsville, Qld, Australia; [Singh, Utkarsh] Sports Dynamix Private Ltd, Chennai, Tamil Nadu, India; [Ferdinands, Rene E. D.] Univ Sydney, Fac Med & Hlth, Sydney Sch Hlth Sci, Discipline Exercise & Sport Sci, Sydney, NSW 2006, Australia								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000841568100001	46	Article; Article		
J	Ribeiro, Joao Nuno; Goncalves, Bruno; Illa, Jordi; Couceiro, Micael; Sampaio, Jaime; Travassos, Bruno								Exploring the effects of interchange rotations on high-intensity activities of elite futsal players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	6			2044	2050		10.1177/17479541221119659			DEC 2023	2023	The literature lacks an understanding of the physical demands of team sports with unlimited substitutions (player interchange rotations). Because of this characteristic of the game, it is necessary to analyze the physical requirements through player rotation rather than analyzing global averages. The objective of this research is to investigate the relationship between high-intensity activities (HIA; sum of accelerations, decelerations, and high-speed running actions) performed per interchange rotations and match time variables (playtime, rest time, and work-rest ratio) in elite futsal players. A retrospective observational design was used. Twelve matches from an elite male team competing in the Premier Spanish Futsal League were analyzed using a local positioning system, yielding a total sample of 17 players. The number of HIA performed per interchange rotation varies between players and allows the identification of three distinct activity profiles-lower HIA (10 HIA), medium HIA (28 HIA), and higher HIA (38 HIA). Furthermore, these profiles were found to be stable alongside the existing interchange rotations throughout the match. Playtime (F = 40.9, p < .001) and work-rest ratio (F = 15.6, p < .001) are the time variables that best differentiate match activity profiles. Players with more playing time (4.6 +/- 1.0 min) and a work-rest ratio equal to or greater than 1 (1.1 +/- 0.6 a.u.) have a greater ability to repeat HIA per rotation.		[Ribeiro, Joao Nuno; Travassos, Bruno] Univ Beira Interior, Dept Sport Sci, P-6201001 Covilha, Portugal; [Ribeiro, Joao Nuno; Sampaio, Jaime; Travassos, Bruno] CIDESD, CreativeLab Res Community, Res Ctr Sport Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev, Vila Real, Portugal; [Goncalves, Bruno] Univ Evora, Dept Desporto & Saude, Escola Ciencias & Tecnol, Evora, Portugal; [Goncalves, Bruno] Univ Evora, Comprehens Hlth Res Ctr CHRC, Evora, Portugal; [Goncalves, Bruno; Travassos, Bruno] Portuguese Football Federat, Portugal Football Sch, Oeiras, Portugal; [Illa, Jordi] Futbol Club Barcelona, Sports Performance Area, Sport Sci Dept, Barcelona, Spain; [Couceiro, Micael] Ingeniarius, Alfena, Portugal; [Ribeiro, Joao Nuno] Univ Beira Interior, Dept Sport Sci, P-6201001 Covilha, Portugal								16							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000840941700001	30	Article; Article		
J	Edwards, Dom; Brannagan, Paul Michael								Navigating the club-to-international transition process: An exploration of English Premier League youth footballers' experiences								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	5			1487	1500		10.1177/17479541221115008			OCT 2023	2023	This study investigated the experiences of youth footballers as they made their transition from club football to the England youth international football teams. The club-to-international transition focuses on the movement of an individual from club sport to international representation, a within-career transition that comes with its own specific demands, characterised by the dual stakeholders of club and national governing body. The authors completed semi-structured interviews with 11 current youth footballers to better understand the type of coaching support they were provided by both club and national team coaches before, during and after international representation. Through thematic analysis, it was found that there was ambiguity as to the support offered to youth international footballers, with players explaining that feedback provided post-training camp did not support them in their development. Players also suggested the importance of sharing performance data between the domains (club and international) as good practice that helped them to have a more successful transition. These novel results suggest that the transition into youth international football should be seen as an important step in the development of the young footballer, however, clubs and national governing bodies need to work closer together to use this transition as a developmental opportunity. Several practical applications are discussed, including the importance of key stakeholders clearly outlining their responsibilities to the player during international representation.		[Edwards, Dom; Brannagan, Paul Michael] Manchester Metropolitan Univ, Business Sch, All St Campus,Oxford Rd, Manchester M15 6BH, Lancs, England; [Edwards, Dom] Manchester Metropolitan Univ, Business Sch, All St Campus,Oxford Rd, Manchester M15 6BH, Lancs, England								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000840947800001	63	Article; Article		
J	Tredrea, Matthew S. J.; Clarke, Anthea C.; Middleton, Kane J.; Bourne, Matthew N.; Carey, David L.; Scanlan, Aaron T.; Dascombe, Ben J.								Validity and between-unit agreement of commercially-available linear position transducer and inertial sensor devices during loaded countermovement jumps								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2022.2109509				2022	To assess the validity and between-unit agreement of velocity monitoring devices during incrementally-loaded countermovement jumps (CMJ), 16 males (24.0 +/- 3.5 yr) completed 12 CMJs on a force plate (FP). Performance variables were collected through two linear position transducers (GymAware [GA]) and four accelerometer-based devices (two PUSH units, two Bar Sensei units). Pearson correlations (r) and coefficients of variation (CV) demonstrated strong to very-strong relationships (r = 0.60-0.88) and poor agreement (CV = 11.7-25.3%) between FP and GA, and moderate to very-strong relationships (r = 0.31-0.81) and poor agreement (CV = 10.1-24.2%) between FP and PUSH. Between-unit comparisons demonstrated moderate to very-strong relationships (r = 0.50-0.88) with poor agreement (CV = 10.8-26.6%) for GA, and very weak to very-strong relationships (r = 0.01-0.87) with moderate to poor agreement (CV = 9.1-24.1%) for PUSH. Bar Sensei units were excluded from analyses. Loaded CMJ data collected with either device displayed poor agreement with a FP. Velocity monitoring devices demonstrate poor validity across all loads; however, GA demonstrated strong between-unit agreement. A FP should be utilised to accurately assess CMJ performance at all times.		[Tredrea, Matthew S. J.; Clarke, Anthea C.; Middleton, Kane J.; Carey, David L.] La Trobe Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Human Serv & Sport, Discipline Sport & Exercise Sci, Bundoora, Vic, Australia; [Bourne, Matthew N.] Griffith Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Sci, Gold Coast, Qld, Australia; [Bourne, Matthew N.] Griffith Univ, Menzies Hlth Inst, Gold Coast, Qld, Australia; [Scanlan, Aaron T.] Cent Queensland Univ, Sch Hlth Med & Appl Sci, Human Exercise & Training Lab, Rockhampton, Qld, Australia; [Dascombe, Ben J.] Univ Newcastle, Appl Sport Sci & Exercise Testing Lab, Ourimbah, Australia; [Tredrea, Matthew S. J.] La Trobe Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Human Serv & Sport, Discipline Sport & Exercise Sci, Bundoora, Vic, Australia								1							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000842258700001	34	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Romagnoli, Cristian; Ditroilo, Massimiliano; Bonaiuto, Vincenzo; Annino, Giuseppe; Gatta, Giorgio								Paddle propulsive force and power balance: a new approach to performance assessment in flatwater kayaking								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	2			247	260		10.1080/14763141.2022.2109505			FEB 1 2025	2025	This study aims to determine the propulsive force (F-p) and its timing of application during the paddle stroke confirming the dynamic balance between propulsive and drag powers (P-p = P-d) in kayaking performance. Ten male sub-elite paddlers participated in the study. The athletes carried out three trials of 50 m at three different velocity ranges: 2.70 - 3.00 m/ s; 3.01 - 3.50 m/s and 3.51 - 4.00 m/ s. A constant velocity during each trial was maintained and the section between 15 and 40 m of the total pool length was considered for further analysis. Data were collected using the E-kayak system provided of an instrumented paddle and 2D video analysis. It was observed that the propulsive force increases in intensity (up to 90% of the peak force) as the velocity increases. The dynamic balance between P-d and P-p was confirmed with a Bland and Altman plot (estimated bias: 0.2; LoA: 12.8 and 13.3 W). The related comparisons between the power parameters showed no significant difference (p > 0.050) in each of the considered velocity. By applying the dynamic balance theory between P-p = P-d on the data obtained from the interaction among GPS, force on the paddle and 2D video analysis, it is possible to acquire essential information (F-p, P-p) to monitor the flatwater kayaking performance.		[Romagnoli, Cristian; Gatta, Giorgio] Univ Bologna, Dept Life Qual Studies, Bologna, Italy; [Romagnoli, Cristian; Bonaiuto, Vincenzo] Univ Roma Tor Vergata, Dept Ind Engn, Sport Engn Lab, Rome, Italy; [Ditroilo, Massimiliano] Univ Coll Dublin, Sch Publ Hlth Physiotherapy & Sports Sci, Dublin, Ireland; [Annino, Giuseppe] Univ Roma Tor Vergata, Dept Med Syst, Rome, Italy; [Annino, Giuseppe] Univ Roma Tor Vergata, Ctr Space Biomed, Rome, Italy; [Romagnoli, Cristian] Univ Bologna, Dept Life Qual Studies, Bologna, Italy; [Romagnoli, Cristian] Univ Roma Tor Vergata, Dept Ind Engn, Sport Engn Lab, Rome, Italy								12							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000840567600001	34	Article; Article		
J	Hunter, Andrew H.; Smith, Nicholas M. A.; Camata, Thiago, V; Crowther, Mathew S.; Mather, Andrew; Moura, Felipe A.; Santiago, Paulo Roberto Pereira; Wilson, Robbie S.								Are soccer players born later in the year more technically skilled than those born earlier in the year								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	6			2015	2024		10.1177/17479541221117630			DEC 2023	2023	In many youth sports, selection into elite training academies is dominated by athletes born earlier in the year. Previous research suggests this is partly due to these athletes being more physically developed than their younger peers. How athletes born later in the year survive in elite academies is less understood. Here, we tested the hypothesis that players born later in the year are more technically skilled than their peers born earlier in the same year. Using 150 youth players (10-19 years of age) from an elite Brazilian soccer academy, we measured each player's date of birth, height, and mass; sprinting ability; dribbling ability; and kicking accuracy and speed. We found most players in this academy were born in the first half of the year, and those born earlier in the year (relatively older) tended to be taller and heavier than those born later in the same year (relatively younger). In addition, relatively older players were faster when sprinting and dribbling the ball in a straight line. Conversely, relatively younger players were more accurate when passing the ball with their nondominant foot, providing some evidence these players were more technically skilled than their older peers of the same age. We suggest skill tests with youth players need to consider relative age and physical size in order to best assess a player's potential.		[Hunter, Andrew H.; Smith, Nicholas M. A.; Camata, Thiago, V; Mather, Andrew; Wilson, Robbie S.] Univ Queensland, Sch Biol Sci, St Lucia, Qld 4072, Australia; [Crowther, Mathew S.] Univ Sydney, Sch Life & Environm Sci, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Moura, Felipe A.] Univ Estadual Londrina, Dept Sport Sci, Londrina, Parana, Brazil; [Santiago, Paulo Roberto Pereira] Univ Sao Paulo, Ribeirao Preto Sch Phys Educ & Sports, Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil; [Hunter, Andrew H.] Univ Queensland, Sch Biol Sci, St Lucia, Qld 4072, Australia								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000839850200001	49	Article; Article		
J	Bredt, Sarah da Gloria Teles; Camargo, Daniel de Souza; Torres, Juliana de Oliveira; Praca, Gibson Moreira; de Andrade, Andre Gustavo Pereira; Paolucci, Leopoldo Augusto; da Costa, Israel Teoldo; Chagas, Mauro Heleno								Multidimensional analysis of players' responses in basketball small-sided games: The impact of changing game rules								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	5			1501	1512		10.1177/17479541221112076			OCT 2023	2023	This study followed a cross-sectional design and aimed to compare the offensive and defensive tactical-technical actions and the physical and physiological responses between four 3vs.3 basketball small-sided games (SSGs) played on the half-court: with regular rules (3vs.3REGULAR), with defensive pressure (3vs.3DEFPRESS), with the close-shot rule (3vs.3CLOSESHOT), and with offensive numerical superiority (4vs.3). Fifty-one U-14 and U-15 male athletes participated in the study. They were divided into 3-player teams and played one 4-min bout of each SSG type. Heart rate and the time spent in four acceleration zones (0.0-0.5, 0.5-1.0, 1.0-1.5, and 1.5-2.0 g) were recorded using heart rate monitors and triaxial accelerometers. SSGs were filmed for the analysis of Space Creation Dynamics and defensive tactical-technical actions. Results showed a higher frequency of space creation without the ball and a mean number of passes per offense in the 4vs.3, with this SSG showing higher offensive performance than the 3vs.3CLOSESHOT (large effect sizes). Defensive behavior was significantly impacted by all rules: in general, 4vs.3 presented the highest frequency of closeouts, 3vs.3DEFPRESS increased the frequency of close off-ball marking and the 3vs.3CLOSESHOT increased the frequency of double-teaming, all differences presenting large effect sizes. Heart rate and the time spent in moderate and high accelerations (zones 2 and 3) were the highest with defensive pressure and the lowest with numerical superiority; heart rate and accelerations in the close-shot rule are higher than in numerical superiority but similar to the 3vs.3REGULAR. We concluded that the SSGs investigated in this study can stimulate different offensive and defensive actions and be used to develop the performance of basketball athletes.		[Bredt, Sarah da Gloria Teles; Camargo, Daniel de Souza; Praca, Gibson Moreira; de Andrade, Andre Gustavo Pereira; Paolucci, Leopoldo Augusto; Chagas, Mauro Heleno] Univ Fed Minas Gerais, Ave Antonio Carlos,6627, Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil; [Torres, Juliana de Oliveira] Univ Fed Vicosa, Florestal, Brazil; [da Costa, Israel Teoldo] Univ Fed Vicosa, Vicosa, MG, Brazil; [Bredt, Sarah da Gloria Teles] Univ Fed Minas Gerais, Ave Antonio Carlos,6627, Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil								11							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000839904700001	38	Article; Article		
J	Carvalho, Humberto M.; Morais, Cristiano Z.; Lima, Ahlan B.; Galvao, Luciano G.; Grosgeorge, Bernard; Goncalves, Carlos E.								Participation in the under-18 Euroleague Next Generation Tournament does not predict attaining NBA, Euroleague, or Eurocup								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	2			523	531		10.1177/17479541221116881			APR 2023	2023	We examined whether participation and individual performance in the under-18 Euroleague Next Generation Tournament (NGT) predicted a future contract with an NBA, Euroleague, or Eurocup squad. Data from 1446 players between 2002-2003 and 2011-2012 seasons were considered. We considered information about each player, including country, the number of games played, and performance index rating (PIR). We tracked the players' highest club level attained in their adult careers. We used a multilevel ordinal regression with a cumulative model in a fully Bayesian framework to examine the probability of the players playing in the NGT attaining the NBA, Euroleague, or Eurocup. Furthermore, we explored in the model if PIR in the NGT was a relevant predictor of achieving the highest club level in adult careers. From the total sample, only a very small percentage attain the NBA (20 in 1446, 1.4%), Euroleague (103 in 1446, 7.2%), and Eurocup (60 in 1446, 4.2%). The results highlight that a very small number of players with a very high PIR per game in the NGT had a higher chance to play in the NBA, Euroleague, or Eurocup. The probability of attainment of NBA and Euroleague for the population of highly selected basketball players playing the under-18 NGT in the first 10 years of the NGT was small. Hence, caution is warranted when assuming the effectiveness of current talent development models, even at the late stages of young players' development, often labelled as young elite players.		[Carvalho, Humberto M.; Morais, Cristiano Z.; Lima, Ahlan B.; Galvao, Luciano G.] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Sch Sports, Dept Phys Educ, Campus Reitor Joao David Ferreira Lima, BR-88040900 Florianopolis, SC, Brazil; [Grosgeorge, Bernard] French Basketball Federat, Pole France Basketball Yvan Mainini, Paris, France; [Goncalves, Carlos E.] Univ Coimbra, Fac Sports Sci & Phys Educ, Coimbra, Portugal; [Carvalho, Humberto M.] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Sch Sports, Dept Phys Educ, Campus Reitor Joao David Ferreira Lima, BR-88040900 Florianopolis, SC, Brazil								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000840186500001	26	Article; Article		
J	de Souza Ribeiro, Aline Aparecida; Werneck, Francisco Zacaron; Barata Figueiredo, Antonio Jose; Vianna, Jeferson Macedo								Talent identification and development in judo: A perspective from Brazilian coaches								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	1			38	45		10.1177/17479541221117860			FEB 2023	2023	The knowledge of coaches is fundamental in the identification and development of sporting talents. The aim of the study was to investigate how Brazilian judo coaches identify talents and what is the importance of different factors for the development of young judokas. 56 coaches (87% male; 41.6 +/- 12.5 years old; 64% Southeast region; 68% national/international competitive level) answered an online questionnaire about anthropometric, physical-motor, technical, tactical, psychological and environmental characteristics. On a scale of 1 (not very important) to 5 (extremely important), the coaches indicated to what extent a factor/indicator of sporting potential was important for talent development in judo. 58.9% of the coaches perform talent identification, mainly by training progression, competition performance and specific tests. The technical factor was the most important, followed by physical-motor, psychological and tactical, and finally environmental and anthropometric. Most of the coaches considered these indicators as extremely important: grip ability, projection, combination of attacks, transition from standing to ground fighting, reaction time, motor coordination, anaerobic endurance, lower limbs power, ability to withstand pressure, concentration and determination as well as practice quality and family support. It is concluded that Brazilian judo coaches identify talents mainly through training and competition and consider technique the most important factor for the development of talented young judokas.		[de Souza Ribeiro, Aline Aparecida; Vianna, Jeferson Macedo] Univ Fed Juiz de Fora, Juiz De Fora, MG, Brazil; [Werneck, Francisco Zacaron] Univ Fed Ouro Preto, Ouro Preto, MG, Brazil; [Barata Figueiredo, Antonio Jose] Univ Coimbra, Fac Sport Sci & Phys Educ, Res Unit Sport & Phys Act, Coimbra, Portugal; [de Souza Ribeiro, Aline Aparecida] Rua Prof Violeta Santos 31,BI 04,Apt 1004, BR-36035210 Democrata, MG, Brazil								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000838279200001	30	Article; Article		
J	Ehrlich, Justin A.; Ghimire, Shankar; Sadler, Thomas R.; Sanders, Shane D.								Policy and Policy Response on the Court: A Theoretical and Empirical Examination of the Three-Point Line Extension in Basketball								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				24	2			159	173		10.1177/15270025221111790			FEB 2023	2023	This paper considers recent and historical changes in the three-point line distance at the NCAA and NBA levels as an example of policy change with highly-measurable outcome(s). The paper presents several empirical tests describing a point-maximizing basketball team's optimal allocation of two-point and three-point shots. It does so primarily in the context that the NCAA Men's Basketball three-point line was extended from 20'9 '' to 21'9 '' in advance of the 2019-20 season, and similar analysis for the NBA in the 1990s. We find that a three-point line extension significantly lowers three- and two-point shot proficiency, while decreasing (increasing) three-point (two-point) shot volume.		[Ehrlich, Justin A.; Sanders, Shane D.] Syracuse Univ, Sport Analyt, Syracuse, NY USA; [Ghimire, Shankar; Sadler, Thomas R.] Western Illinois Univ, Econ, Macomb, IL 61455 USA; [Ghimire, Shankar] Western Illinois Univ, Sch Accounting Finance Econ & Decis Sci, 1 Univ Circle, Macomb, IL 61455 USA								2							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000837359200001	26	Article; Article		
J	Vasireddi, Nikhil; Hahamyan, Henrik A.; Kumar, Yash; Ng, Mitchell K.; Voos, James E.; Calcei, Jacob G.								Social media may cause emergent SARMs abuse by athletes: a content quality analysis of the most popular YouTube videos								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				51	2			175	182		10.1080/00913847.2022.2108352			MAR 4 2023	2023	Objectives Selective Androgen Receptor Modulators (SARMs) social media interest is at an all-time high. The aim of this study is to analyze the: (1) quality; (2) educational content; and (3) reliability of the most relevant YouTube videos on SARMs to explain growing SARMs abuse by recreational and professional athletes. Methods 'SARMs' was queried (28 November 2021) through the YouTube video library. The top 100 videos filtered by relevance were categorized by source, type of content, educational quality by Global Quality Score (GQS), reliability by Journal of American Medicine Association (JAMA) criteria, YouTube tags, attitude toward SARMs use, and whether the video provided specific support on how to use SARMs. For all outcome variables, descriptive statistics and comparison among source types and category types were performed. Results Mean JAMA score was 1.6 +/- 0.7 out of 4. Mean GQS score was 2.5 +/- 1.1 out of 5. Patient videos were of lower educational quality than athletic trainer videos (GQS: 2.11 +/- 0.95 vs. 2.95 +/- 1.00, p < 0.01), and videos categorized as user experience were of lower educational quality than videos categorized as general SARMs information (GQS: 1.92 +/- 0.90 vs. 2.72 +/- 1.07, p < 0.05). User experience and dosing recommendation videos were statistically significantly more positive in attitude than both general SARMs information and SARMS vs. other PEDs. Conclusion Quality, content, and reliability of SARMs YouTube videos was low. Social media likely causes SARMs abuse through disseminating biased SARMs misinformation. These results serve to educate public health oversight bodies, healthcare providers, and sports team members to better identify signs of SARMs abuse, and promote discussion to discourage SARMs abuse.		[Vasireddi, Nikhil; Kumar, Yash; Voos, James E.; Calcei, Jacob G.] Case Western Reserve Univ, Dept Orthopaed, Sch Med, Cleveland, OH 44106 USA; [Hahamyan, Henrik A.] Vanderbilt Univ, Med Ctr, Div Cardiovasc Med, Nashville, TN USA; [Ng, Mitchell K.] Maimonides Hosp, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Brooklyn, NY 11219 USA; [Voos, James E.; Calcei, Jacob G.] Univ Hosp Cleveland, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Med Ctr, Cleveland, OH 44106 USA; [Voos, James E.; Calcei, Jacob G.] Univ Hosp Sports Med Inst, Cleveland, OH USA; [Vasireddi, Nikhil] Case Western Reserve Univ, Dept Orthopaed, Sch Med, MHA, 9501 Euclid Ave, Cleveland, OH 44106 USA								17							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000836094500001	52	Article; Article		
J	Kim, Sung Eun								Reducing Knee Joint Load during a Golf Swing: The Effects of Ball Position Modification at Address								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				21	3			394	401		10.52082/jssm.2022.394			SEP 2022	2022	As the modern golf swing has changed, the incidence of knee pain in professional golfers is increasing. For those with previous knee injuries, developing a golf-swing modification that reduces knee loading may be necessary to recover performance after injury. The purpose of this study was to test whether ball position modification reduces knee joint load in a golf swing. Thirteen male professional golfers participated in the study. Golf swings were captured using a three-dimensional motion capture system and two force platforms, with conditions for self-selected ball position and eight additional ball positions. Knee internal rotation and adduction moments were calculated. The length of one golf ball (4.27 cm) backward ball position (closer to the golfer) significantly reduced the peak internal rotation moment of the lead knee (- 13.8%) (p < 0.001) and the length of one golf ball (4.27 cm) away from the target ball position significantly reduced the peak adduction moment of the lead knee (- 11.5%) (p < 0.001) compared with that of the self-selected ball position. Based on these observations, we conclude that the backward ball position modification might be suggested for golfers with anterior cruciate ligament injuries, and the away from the target modification might be suggested for golfers with medial compartment knee osteoarthritis.		[Kim, Sung Eun] Yonsei Univ, Frontier Res Inst Convergence Sports Sci, 326 Sports Sci Complex,50 Yonsei Ro, Seoul 03722, South Korea; [Kim, Sung Eun] Yonsei Univ, Frontier Res Inst Convergence Sports Sci, 326 Sports Sci Complex,50 Yonsei Ro, Seoul 03722, South Korea								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:000834953200001	30	Article; Article		
J	Turner, Anthony N.; Read, Paul; Maestroni, Luca; Chavda, Shyam; Yao, Xiang; Papadopoulos, Kostas; Virgile, Adam; Spiegelhalter, Abbie; Bishop, Chris								Reverse Engineering in Strength and Conditioning: Applications to Agility Training								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				44	4			85	94		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000681			AUG 2022	2022	Typically, a coach may follow a process in which they first identify the key performance indicators of their sport, determine the physical attributes that map back to them, and then distribute the development of those capacities over the allocated timeframe. Furthermore, effective training plans are based on a theoretical or biological basis for how we move and adapt to exercise stimuli, coupled with an understanding of how these are best sequenced, such that one stimulus and subsequent adaptation can potentiate the next. Thus, reverse or backward engineering, when appropriately converged with the plans of those devised around nutrition, conditioning, technical, and tactical training, for example, likely gives athletes the best chance of attaining their performance goals. The aim of this article is to describe the application of reverse engineering, exampling it within the context of developing an athlete who can demonstrate a high level of agility.		[Turner, Anthony N.; Maestroni, Luca; Chavda, Shyam; Yao, Xiang; Papadopoulos, Kostas; Spiegelhalter, Abbie; Bishop, Chris] Middlesex Univ, London Sports Inst, London, England; [Read, Paul] Inst Sport Exercise & Hlth ISEH, London, England; [Virgile, Adam] Univ Vermont, Coll Nursing & Hlth Sci, Burlington, VT USA; [Turner, Anthony N.] Middlesex Univ, London Sports Inst, London, England								6							Sport Sciences	WOS:000834672800008	39	Article; Article		
J	Johnson, David L.; Bird, Matthew D.								Performance Profiling in Strength and Conditioning								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				44	4			62	69		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000684			AUG 2022	2022	Performance profiling is a client-led assessment tool that enables athletes to uncover strengths and weaknesses associated with their sporting performance. Initially designed to increase client commitment to a training program, the performance profiling technique presents an opportunity for the athlete to play an active role and contribute to the initial needs analysis process. This evidenced-based method of assessment has been shown to help clients increase their self-awareness, identify areas they can improve, and serve as a basis for goal setting. The tool also permits both client and practitioner to monitor and track progress over time. Although predominantly adopted for those providing psychological support to athletes, the performance profile may be beneficial for strength and conditioning coaches. This article aims to highlight the potential benefits of performance profiling within the field of strength and conditioning, provides guidelines with completed examples for strength and conditioning practitioners to integrate into their work with clients, and presents a brief overview of the theory underpinning the technique.		[Johnson, David L.; Bird, Matthew D.] Univ Lincoln, Sch Sport & Exercise Sci, Lincoln, England; [Bird, Matthew D.] Univ Lincoln, Sch Sport & Exercise Sci, Lincoln, England								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:000834672800005	29	Article; Article		
J	Ibrahim, Rony; de Boode, Vosse; Kingma, Idsart; van dieen, Jaap H.								Data-driven strength and conditioning, and technical training programs for goalkeeper's diving save in football								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	10			2871	2883		10.1080/14763141.2022.2099966			OCT 3 2025	2025	The goal of this study was to evaluate the technical and physical adaptations to a data-driven 12-weeks training programs that incorporated recent findings from biomechanical studies on the diving save. Three-dimensional kinematics and kinetics were collected and analysed from 11 goalkeepers diving to save high (190 cm) and low (30 cm) balls at three occasions: twice pre-training and once post-training. Intraclass correlation coefficients were found to be excellent (>.7) between the pre-training tests, and there were no learning effects between them. Three-way repeated measures ANOVAs were used to evaluate the effect of dive side, dive height and training programme (pre- vs post-training) on normalised dive time [s<middle dot>m(-1)], average centre of mass (CoM) horizontal velocity [m<middle dot>s(-1)] and total power [W] generated at contralateral and ipsilateral push-offs. Compared to pre-training, the post-training results revealed greater average CoM horizontal velocity (+.82 m<middle dot>s(-1), 95% CI = [.62, 1.02]) and power (+523 W, 95% CI = [313, 732]) at contralateral push-off. These adaptations caused a reduction in normalised dive time (- .008 s<middle dot>m(-1), 95% CI = [- .014, - .002]) at post-training compared to pre-training. This translates to 42 cm more goal area coverage in a penalty situation.		[Ibrahim, Rony] Qatar Univ, Coll Educ, Dept Phys Educ, Doha, Qatar; [de Boode, Vosse] AFC Ajax, Adidas MiCoach Performance Ctr, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Kingma, Idsart; van dieen, Jaap H.] Vrije Univ Amsterdam, Fac Behav & Movement Sci, Dept Human Movement Sci, Amsterdam Movement Sci, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Ibrahim, Rony] Qatar Univ, Coll Educ, Dept Phys Educ, Doha, Qatar								7							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000831176800001	39	Article; Article		
J	Daub, Bryce D.; McLean, Blake D.; Heishman, Aaron D.; Coutts, Aaron J.								The reliability and usefulness of a novel basketball standardized shooting task								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	4			1285	1294		10.1177/17479541221100496			AUG 2023	2023	The purpose of this investigation was to develop a basketball shooting performance test and subsequently assess the tests measurement characteristics and construct validity. The novel standardized shooting task (SST) was comprised of 60 free throw attempts followed by a 4-min spot-to-spot shooting segment (including seven sequential locations either outside the 3-point line or at a 15-foot mark, depending upon player role). After development of the SST, 28 (male = 16, female = 12) NCAA Division I basketball players completed the task on separate days (Part 1; reliability) and then following a standard basketball practice (Part 2; sensitivity). SST performance collected from 13 males was then compared with shots made during live practices and expert ranking's (Part 3; construct validity). Interday reliability (Part 1) measures were: intraclass correlations coefficient = 0.77-0.86; coefficient of variation = 1.9-12.0%. There were no significant differences (p>0.05) between days for any performance variables. From pre- to post-practice (Part 2) repeated measures analyses of variance showed a significant difference (p = 0.03) for shots made in 4-min (MAKE(4MIN); pre = 51.6 +/- 8.8, post practice = 48.7 +/- 9.3), while no significant differences were detected for any other variables. Results from Part 3 indicated large correlations for Shooter Rank versus MAKE(4MIN) (r = 0.814, p = 0.001) and Shooter Rank versus shooting percentage in live play (r = 0.815, p = 0.001). These data demonstrate the SST poses sufficient reliability and sensitivity to detect meaningful changes in performance, as well as adequate construct validity. Therefore, offering an ecologically valid measurement which can be incorporated to athlete monitoring strategies in elite basketballers.		[Daub, Bryce D.; McLean, Blake D.; Coutts, Aaron J.] Univ Technol Sydney, Sch Sport Exercise & Rehabil, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Daub, Bryce D.; Heishman, Aaron D.] Univ Oklahoma, Dept Athlet Basketball Strength & Performance, 2900 S Jenkins, Norman, OK 73019 USA; [McLean, Blake D.] Oklahoma City Thunder Profess Basketball Club, Human & Player Performance, Oklahoma City, OK USA; [Heishman, Aaron D.] Vegas Golden Knights Profess Hockey Club, Sport Sci & Performance, Las Vegas, NV USA; [Daub, Bryce D.] Univ Oklahoma, Dept Athlet Basketball Strength & Performance, 2900 S Jenkins, Norman, OK 73019 USA								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000832759600001	43	Article; Article		
J	Chapelle, Laurent; Pion, Johan; Clarys, Peter; Rommers, Nikki; D'Hondt, Eva								Anthropometric and physical performance determinants of young tennis players progressing through a talent identification and development programme								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	5			1469	1477		10.1177/17479541221115855			OCT 2023	2023	This study examined the influence of both anthropometric and physical performance determinants on the likelihood to be selected to progress through a talent identification and development programme in young tennis. Data were collected in 538 young tennis players (323 males and 215 females) from 6 age categories (U8-U13). A principal component analysis was used to generate one anthropometric determinant (based on body height, body weight and maturity offset) and four physical performance determinants: speed and agility (based on 5 m sprint, 20 m sprint and 505 change of direction test); jumping power (based on standing broad jump and standing broad jump in series); motor coordination (based on balancing backwards and jumping sideways) and tennis ball control (based on a throw and catch test and hold tennis ball up test). For all determinants, tertiles were generated for every age category and both sexes separately. Univariate binary logistic regressions were performed to examine the influence of each determinant on the chances to be selected to progress in the talent identification and development programme. Significant odds ratios were found for all included anthropometric and physical performance determinants (p < 0.05), ranging from 0.26 to 7.50 in the male young tennis players and from 0.18 to 6.87 in the female young tennis players. The included determinants influenced selection chances mostly in the early age categories (U8-U10) as opposed to the later age categories (U11-U13). Future research should examine the influence of additional determinants (such as tennis (match-play) performance) on the selection chances to progress through a talent identification and development programme.		[Chapelle, Laurent; Clarys, Peter; Rommers, Nikki; D'Hondt, Eva] Vrije Univ Brussel, Fac Phys Educ & Physiotherapy, Dept Movement & Sport Sci, Pl Laan 2, B-1050 Brussels, Belgium; [Pion, Johan] HAN Univ Appl Sci, Sch Sport & Exercise, Talent Identificat & Talent Dev Sport, Nijmegen, Netherlands; [Pion, Johan] Univ Ghent, Fac Med & Hlth Sci, Dept Movement & Sports Sci, Ghent, Belgium; [Rommers, Nikki] Univ Basel, Dept Clin Res, Basel, Switzerland; [Rommers, Nikki] Univ Hosp Basel, Basel, Switzerland; [Chapelle, Laurent] Vrije Univ Brussel, Fac Phys Educ & Physiotherapy, Dept Movement & Sport Sci, Pl Laan 2, B-1050 Brussels, Belgium								10							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000830522500001	39	Article; Article		
J	van der Merwe, Carla; Shultz, Sarah P.; Colborne, G. Robert; Hebert-Losier, Kim; Fink, Philip W.								Using a modified vector coding technique to describe the calcaneus-shank coupling relationship during unanticipated changes of direction: theoretical implications for prophylactic ACL strategies								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				22	1			102	122		10.1080/14763141.2022.2099965			JAN 2 2023	2023	Shank rotation is associated with increased risk in lower limb injuries of weight-bearing sport activity. Straight-line running injury prevention research proposes a 'bottom-up' approach to minimising injury risk to the knee. This prophylactic recommendation is due to the observed distal-proximal coupling relationship between rearfoot and shank rotations. However, the coupling relationship between the calcaneus and shank is unknown in sports with high intensity decelerations, frequent changes of direction, associated with increased anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) injury risk. The aim of this study was to determine whether the movement of the calcaneus has a potential effect on the internal and external rotational movement of the shank, associated with ACL injury risk. We implemented a modified vector coding technique using segmental velocities in a local, anatomical reference frame to quantify the coupling relationship between the individual tri-planar calcaneus rotations and transverse plane shank rotations. During the loading phase, a distal-proximal coupling relationship between calcaneus eversion deceleration, abduction acceleration, and shank internal rotation deceleration was observed amongst most subjects. The distal-proximal coupling found between the calcaneus and shank justifies exploring interventions geared towards manipulating calcaneus motion to affect shank rotational movements during unanticipated change of direction tasks associated with ACL injury risk.		[van der Merwe, Carla; Fink, Philip W.] Massey Univ, Sch Sport Exercise & Nutr, Palmerston North, New Zealand; [Shultz, Sarah P.] Univ Seattle, Dept Kinesiol, Seattle, WA USA; [Colborne, G. Robert] Massey Univ, Sch Vet Sci, Palmerston North, New Zealand; [Hebert-Losier, Kim] Univ Waikato, Adams Ctr High Performance, Te Huataki Waiora Sch Hlth, Tauranga, New Zealand; [van der Merwe, Carla] Massey Univ, Sch Sport Exercise & Nutr, Palmerston North, New Zealand								2							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000828976200001	61	Article; Article		
J	Fadier, Maxime; Touzard, Pierre; Lecomte, Chloe; Bideau, Benoit; Cantin, Nicolas; Martin, Caroline								Do serve distance and net height modify serve biomechanics in young tennis players?								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	5			1513	1520		10.1177/17479541221114106			OCT 2023	2023	The aim of this study was to determine whether decreasing serving distance and net height would immediately influence serve biomechanics and performance in young intermediate tennis players. Ten young tennis players (9 to 12 years) performed maximal effort flat serves from three court conditions ("red", "orange" and "green": serving distance at 6.40, 9.00 and 11.89 m from the net and net height at 0.80 m, 0.80 m and 0.91m, respectively). A radar measured ball speed while serve kinetics and kinematics were calculated with a 20-camera optical motion capture system. Repeated measures ANOVAs were used to analyze the effect of the three conditions on ball speed, serve kinematics and kinetics. No significant differences in shoulder and elbow kinetics were observed between the three conditions. Ball speed, maximal flexion angle of the back knee and maximal angular velocities of back knee extension and trunk flexion significantly improved when players served from the red conditions in comparison with green ones. This study shows that reducing serve distance and net height may be an effective coaching strategy to immediately increase ball speed, leg drive and trunk flexion in young tennis players.		[Fadier, Maxime; Touzard, Pierre; Lecomte, Chloe; Bideau, Benoit; Martin, Caroline] Rennes 2 Univ, M2S Lab, Ecole Normale Super Rennes, Campus Ker Lann,Ave Robert Schuman, F-35170 Bruz, France; [Cantin, Nicolas] French Tennis Federat, Ille Et Vilaine Tennis Dept Comm, Rennes, France; [Martin, Caroline] Rennes 2 Univ, M2S Lab, Ecole Normale Super Rennes, Campus Ker Lann,Ave Robert Schuman, F-35170 Bruz, France								8							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000828836200001	47	Article; Article		
J	Wang, Fong Jia; Chiu, Weisheng								Service encounter and repurchase intention in fitness centers: perceived value as a mediator and service innovativeness as a moderator								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				24	1			145	167		10.1108/IJSMS-03-2022-0055			JAN 17 2023	2023	Purpose This study examined the relationships between service encounter, perceived value, and repurchase intention in the fitness service sector through the theoretical lens of service-dominant logic. In addition, the mediating role of perceived value and the moderating role of service innovativeness were examined. Design/methodology/approach Participants (n = 806) were drawn from fitness center customers in Taiwan using a convenience sampling technique. Partial least square structural equation modeling was used to test the hypotheses in the research model. Findings The results showed that service encounter had a positive impact on perceived value, which in turn affected repurchase intention. Moreover, the full mediating effect of perceived value was identified in the relationship between service encounter and repurchase intention. In addition, service innovativeness positively moderated the effect of service encounter on repurchase intention. Originality/value This study provides empirical evidence on the impact of staff-customer interactions (i.e. service encounter) on customers' perceptions and behaviors and identifies the critical role of perceived value as a mediating mechanism as well as a facilitating role of service innovativeness in enhancing repurchase intention.		[Wang, Fong Jia] Tamkang Univ, New Taipei, Taiwan; [Chiu, Weisheng] Hong Kong Metropolitan Univ, Kowloon, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [Chiu, Weisheng] Hong Kong Metropolitan Univ, Kowloon, Hong Kong, Peoples R China								32							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000825205800001	117	Article; Article		
J	Berkowitz, Jason P.; Rotthoff, Kurt W.								Real Options Applied to Consumer Goods: Maximizing Profits and Fan Welfare								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				24	2			139	158		10.1177/15270025221111791			FEB 2023	2023	The use of pre-sale options for tickets is underutilized in sports. In this study, we show that the use of pre-sale options increases profits, but also increases consumer utility-making both parties better off. Thus, the efficiency gains and profit gains make incorporating options with advanced selling, as opposed to just advanced selling, an optimal strategy. Through this ticket pricing strategy, the organizer can realize a significant increase in profits from a separating equilibrium pricing strategy while simultaneously consumer welfare increases as fans know, with certainty, they have tickets to the game if their team participates. If these options were offered by participants instead of the organizer it also allows the participant to smooth their revenues over time.		[Berkowitz, Jason P.] St Johns Univ, Dept Econ & Finance, Tobin Coll Business, 101 Astor Pl, New York, NY 10003 USA; [Rotthoff, Kurt W.] Seton Hall Univ, Econ & Legal Studies, Stillman Sch Business, S Orange, NJ 07079 USA; [Berkowitz, Jason P.] St Johns Univ, Dept Econ & Finance, Tobin Coll Business, 101 Astor Pl, New York, NY 10003 USA								0							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000826675400001	9	Article; Article		
J	Mao, Eric								The Incentive Effects of Tournaments and Peer Effects in Team Production: Evidence from Esports								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				24	2			174	192		10.1177/15270025221113033			FEB 2023	2023	This paper examines the incentive effects of increased prize differentials and productivity spillovers from substitute coworkers within the context of esports. A direct behavioral measure called "actions per minute (APM)" is utilized to gauge Dota 2 players' on-field exertion of effort dedicated to winning the game. The results based on empirical analysis support the incentive effects of the convex prize structure of esports tournaments on eliciting effort. Further investigation indicates that the incentive effects of high-stakes esports tournaments are more a result of the size of total prize than the relative prize distribution. It is also found that players who serve subordinate roles are more likely to engage in shirking behavior in the presence of teammates with similar roles.		[Mao, Eric] Commun Univ Zhejiang, Sch Cultural Creat & Management, 998 West Yucliao Rd, Tongxiang 314500, Zhejiang, Peoples R China; [Mao, Eric] Commun Univ Zhejiang, Sch Cultural Creat & Management, 998 West Yucliao Rd, Tongxiang 314500, Zhejiang, Peoples R China								6							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000826665100001	45	Article; Article		
J	Smith, David; Zaal, Frank T. J. M.; Memmert, Daniel								Emergent Coordination of Heading in Soccer: Of Two Players and a Single Ball								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	4			959	965		10.1080/02701367.2022.2088674			OCT 2 2023	2023	Purpose: In many sports situations, two or more players need to coordinate their actions to make sure that one of them intercepts a ball or opponent. We considered how two soccer players head back a thrown ball. Two accounts for the joint decision making by both players were considered. These two accounts not only differ in their theoretical basis but also have vastly different implications for training practice. In a first account, players know their areas of responsibility for interception, and combine this with their prediction of the ball's landing location. In a second account, the coordination emerges from the unfolding dynamics of the system of informationally connected players and ball. According to this second account, especially for balls aimed in between the two players, both of the players may start moving and one player sees that the ball will be interceptable for the other player, and subsequently yields the interception. Methods: We instrumented soccer players and the ball with Kinexon sensors and had pairs of players head back the thrown ball. Results: In line with the second account, the results showed a fair number of instances where the player who intercepted the ball had to move the longest distance. Furthermore, considerable movement by both players was not an exception. Conclusion: The results can be taken as a first step towards an understanding of joint coordination as an emergent phenomenon.		[Smith, David; Memmert, Daniel] German Sport Univ Cologne, Cologne, Germany; [Zaal, Frank T. J. M.] Univ Groningen, Univ Med Ctr Groningen, Groningen, Netherlands; [Zaal, Frank T. J. M.] Univ Groningen, Univ Med Ctr Groningen, Dept Human Movement Sci, NL-9713 Groningen, Netherlands								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000826023000001	22	Article; Article		
J	Chou, Chien-Chih; Wang, Chun-Hao; McCullick, Bryan; Hsueh, Ming-Chun								Effects of Coordinative Exercise on Sustained Attention and Perceptual Discrimination in Elementary School Physical Education								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	4			948	958		10.1080/02701367.2022.2085863			OCT 2 2023	2023	Purpose: This study examined the effects of coordinative exercise on children's sustained attention and perceptual discrimination in a school-based physical education (SBPE) setting. Methods: Seventy-three children received an intervention of moderate-to-vigorous intensity coordinative exercise, and 75 children participated in a moderate-to-vigorous intensity physical activity as part of a regular physical education class. Two neuropsychological tests of executive function (EF) were used to assess attention and perceptual discrimination functions before and after each treatment. Results: The results found that coordinative exercise significantly improved the performances on sustained attention and perceptual discrimination, as evidenced by enhanced response accuracy and improved speed of responding. Specifically, higher progressions in task performance were seen following coordinative exercise relative to regular physical activity. Conclusion: These findings suggest that coordinative exercise could enable more robust improvements in sustained attention and perceptual discrimination among children. Overall, we conclude that structured coordinative exercise, implemented in SBPE settings, may be a promising alternative to promote children's cognitive abilities.		[Chou, Chien-Chih; Hsueh, Ming-Chun] Univ Taipei, Taipei, Taiwan; [Wang, Chun-Hao] Natl Cheng Kung Univ, Tainan, Taiwan; [McCullick, Bryan] Univ Georgia, Athens, GA 30602 USA; [Hsueh, Ming-Chun] Univ Taipei, Grad Inst Sport Pedag, 101,Sec 2,Zhongcheng Rd, Taipei 10048, Taiwan								12							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000821776100001	48	Article; Article		
J	Patoz, Aurelien; Lussiana, Thibault; Breine, Bastiaan; Gindre, Cyrille; Malatesta, Davide; Hebert-Losier, Kim								Examination of running pattern consistency across speeds								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS										2094825	10.1080/14763141.2022.2094825				2022	Duty factor (DF) and step frequency (SF) are key running pattern determinants. However, running patterns may change with speed if DF and SF changes are inconsistent across speeds. We examined whether the relative positioning of runners was consistent: 1) across five running speeds (10-18 km/h) for four temporal variables [DF, SF, and their subcomponents: contact (t(c)) and flight (t(c)) time]; and 2) across these four temporal variables at these five speeds. Three-dimensional whole-body kinematics were acquired from 52 runners, and deviations from the median for each variable (normalised to minimum-maximum values) were extracted. Across speeds for all variables, correlations on the relative positioning of individuals were high to very high for 2-4 km/h speed differences, and moderate to high for 6-8 km/h differences. Across variables for all speeds, correlations were low between DF-SF, very high between DF-t(c), and low to high between DF-t(c), SF-t(c), and SF-t(c). Hence, the consistency in running patterns decreased as speed differences increased, suggesting that running patterns be assessed using a range of speeds. Consistency in running patterns at a given speed was low between DF and SF, corroborating suggestions that using both variables can encapsulate the full running pattern spectrum.		[Patoz, Aurelien; Malatesta, Davide] Univ Lausanne, Inst Sport Sci, Lausanne, Switzerland; [Patoz, Aurelien; Lussiana, Thibault; Breine, Bastiaan; Gindre, Cyrille] Volodalen Swiss Sport Lab, Res & Dev Dept, Aigle, Switzerland; [Lussiana, Thibault; Gindre, Cyrille] Volodalen Res & Dev Dept, Chaveria, France; [Lussiana, Thibault] Univ Bourgogne Franche Comte, Res Unit EA3920 Prognost Markers & Regulatory Fac, Besancon, France; [Breine, Bastiaan] Univ Ghent, Dept Movement & Sports Sci, Ghent, Belgium; [Hebert-Losier, Kim] Univ Waikato, Adams Ctr High Performance, Te Huataki Waiora Sch Hlth, Div Hlth Engn Comp & Sci, Tauranga, New Zealand; [Hebert-Losier, Kim] Natl Sports Inst Malaysia, Dept Sports Sci, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia; [Patoz, Aurelien] Univ Lausanne, Inst Sport Sci, Lausanne, Switzerland; [Patoz, Aurelien] Volodalen Swiss Sport Lab, Res & Dev Dept, Aigle, Switzerland								6							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000822072000001	34	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Norris, Luke A.; Didymus, Faye F.; Kaiseler, Mariana								How can social support make coaching less stressful? A longitudinal inquiry with sports coaches								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	6			1258	1269		10.1177/17479541221105763			DEC 2022	2022	Research on social support with sports coaches is limited, yet the benefits of social support on performance and well-being within other occupations have been widely reported. This study explored sports coaches' social support resources over a six-week period to understand how social support resources may alleviate stressors. Longitudinal data were collected from women (n = 6) and male (n = 4) sports coaches (M-age = 35.2, SD = 13.0 years, M-experience = 13.5, SD = 9.7 years) using three semi-structured interviews over a six-week training and competition period. Interview data were analysed using abductive thematic analysis. Coaches used all four types of social support resources over the six-week period. Informational support for advice, ideas, and feedback on training sessions, new job roles, and player development was used most regularly across the different time points. Coaches also reported that they perceived social support resources may alleviate stressors through stress-buffering and main-effects Social support resources (e.g. esteem) might be more important for buffering the effects of stressors and others (e.g. emotional) may be more important for the main-effects. Given the pertinence of social support resources for performance and psychological well-being, applied interventions should aim to educate coaches on ways to develop a social support network that provides all types of social support resources to help cope more effectively with stressors. Moreover, interventions should aim to alter coaches' perceptions of potential stressors as less of a threat and more of a challenge to alleviate the prospective negative influences of stressors.		[Norris, Luke A.] Hartpury Univ & Coll, Sch Sport, Hartpury House, Gloucester GL19 3BE, England; [Didymus, Faye F.; Kaiseler, Mariana] Leeds Beckett Univ, Inst Sport Phys Act & Leisure, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England; [Norris, Luke A.] Hartpury Univ & Coll, Sch Sport, Hartpury House, Gloucester GL19 3BE, England								16							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000824758800001	57	Article; Article		
J	Hydes, Sam; Rothwell, Martyn								Exploring the feasibility of a constraints-based curriculum with British diving coaches								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	6			1295	1305		10.1177/17479541221106382			DEC 2022	2022	Contemporary coaching practices such as the Constraint-Led Approach (CLA) have gained traction in recent years within academic literature and applied practice. However, despite the growing popularity of the CLA there remains challenges with the successful implementation across applied settings. Formal education that adopts top-down hierarchical approaches and is decontextualised from coaches' sociocultural contexts has been attributed to this challenge. To investigate this problem further, the purpose of this study was to explore the feasibility of implementing a CLA curriculum within British Diving's Learn to Dive programme. Twenty-one British Diving coaches (10 male and 11 female) were interviewed for this study. The coaches' insights indicated that a new model of coaching was needed to improve the learning and development experiences of the Learn to Dive participants; however, factors such as opposing philosophies about learners and the learning process, path dependency, and operational priorities were identified as potential barriers to implementation. These findings suggest that the implementation of alternative coaching methods should be considered in the context of the sport and the coaches' needs, experience, and sociocultural-historical biases. Documenting context-specific learning experiences through qualitative research designs can start to address the challenges and provide potential solutions to successfully implementing contemporary learning designs.		[Hydes, Sam] Sheffield Diving Club, Sheffield, S Yorkshire, England; [Rothwell, Martyn] Sheffield Hallam Univ, Sport & Human Performance Res Grp, Sheffield, S Yorkshire, England; [Rothwell, Martyn] Sheffield Hallam Univ, Sport & Human Performance Res Grp, Sheffield, S Yorkshire, England								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000822209300001	46	Article; Article		
J	Aruma, Jane-Frances; Herickhoff, Paul; Taylor, Kenneth; Seidenberg, Peter								Spontaneous rupture of the extensor pollicis longus tendon in a lacrosse player								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				50	6			553	556		10.1080/00913847.2022.2093619			NOV 2 2022	2022	Spontaneous rupture of the extensor pollicis longus (EPL) tendon at the wrist has been reported with predisposing factors to include distal radius fractures, rheumatoid arthritis, systemic or local steroids, and repetitive abnormal motion of the wrist joint. We present a case of an 18-year-old college lacrosse player without history of known predisposing factors who presented with an acute inability to extend the interphalangeal (IP) joint of his right thumb. Preoperative musculoskeletal ultrasound demonstrated rupture of the EPL tendon proximal to the carpometacarpal (CMC) joint of the thumb. A tendon transfer was therefore performed, where the extensor indicis proprius (EIP) was surgically rerouted to reconstruct the ruptured EPL. The athlete eventually returned to competition without sequela. We suggest that the tendon rupture was secondary to repetitive stick checking during play, causing microtrauma to his exposed dorsal wrist. Lacrosse team physicians, athletic trainers, and equipment managers should be aware of this injury mechanism and ensure that their players, and attackmen in particular, are equipped with gloves which adequately pad the dorsal wrist to decrease the risk of microtrauma to the EPL tendon.		[Aruma, Jane-Frances; Herickhoff, Paul; Taylor, Kenneth] Penn State Coll Med, Dept Orthopaed, 1850 E Pk Ave,Suite 304, State Coll, PA 16803 USA; [Seidenberg, Peter] Louisiana State Univ Hlth Shreveport, Dept Family Med, Shreveport, LA USA; [Aruma, Jane-Frances] Penn State Coll Med, Dept Orthopaed, 1850 E Pk Ave,Suite 304, State Coll, PA 16803 USA								1							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000819537700001	14	Article; Article		
J	Dwyer, Dan B.; Molaro, Carson; Rouffet, David M.								Force-velocity profiles of track cyclists differ between seated and non-seated positions								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				22	4			621	632		10.1080/14763141.2022.2092029			APR 3 2023	2023	The aim of the study was to compare the Force-Velocity profiles of track sprint cyclists obtained in seated and non-seated positions. Athletes were tested on a stationary cycle ergometer for the seated position and on a racing bike at the velodrome for the non-seated position. We modelled torque and power vs. cadence relationships and extracted maximal force (F-0), optimal cadence (C-opt), maximal power (P-max), maximal cadence (C-0) and C-opt/C-0 ratio. Torque/power production was larger in the non-seated position for cadences ranging from 20 to 120 rpm, while more torque and power were produced in the seated position at cadences above 160 rpm. The effective pedal force increased by 0.2 times bodyweight at 50 rpm, and the power production increased by 2.5 W. kg(-1) at 90 rpm in the non-seated position. C-opt (-14 +/- 8 rpm, P < 0.05) and C-0 (-55 +/- 32 rpm, P < 0.05) were lowered, while P-max (+1.7 +/- 1.1 W. kg(-1), P < 0.05) and C-opt/C-0 ratios (+0.07 +/- 0.04, P < 0.05) were increased in the non-seated position when compared with the seated position. Our results show that adopting a non-seated position allows sprint cyclists to maximise torque/power production at lower cadences, while torque/power production was maximised at higher cadences when athletes adopted a seated position.		[Dwyer, Dan B.] Deakin Univ, Ctr Sport Res, Geelong, Vic, Australia; [Molaro, Carson; Rouffet, David M.] Univ Louisville, Dept Hlth & Sport Sci, Louisville, KY 40292 USA; [Rouffet, David M.] Univ Louisville, Kentucky Spinal Cord Injury Res Ctr, Louisville, KY 40292 USA; [Rouffet, David M.] Victoria Univ, Inst Hlth & Sport IHeS, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Rouffet, David M.] Univ Louisville, Dept Hlth & Sport Sci, Louisville, KY 40292 USA; [Rouffet, David M.] Univ Louisville, Kentucky Spinal Cord Injury Res Ctr, Louisville, KY 40292 USA; [Rouffet, David M.] Victoria Univ, Inst Hlth & Sport IHeS, Melbourne, Vic, Australia								5							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000817284800001	18	Article; Article		
J	Pyun, Hyunwoong; Humphreys, Brad R.; Khalil, Umair								Professional Sports Events and Public Spending: Evidence from Municipal Police Budgets								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				24	1			73	96	15270025221107145	10.1177/15270025221107145			JAN 2023	2023	Prior evidence reveals a causal relationship between sporting events and crime. If sporting events increase crime, they also increase public spending on policing. We analyze the crime-police spending relationship using data from the Annual Survey of Public Employment & Payroll over the periods 1979-1995 and 1997-2010 for a sample of 52 US municipalities with and without teams. Reduced form regression models reveal that police employment increases with the arrival and departure of an NFL team as well as with the number of postseason games played. We argue that both these outcomes generate plausibly exogenous variation in sports-related demand for policing.		[Pyun, Hyunwoong] Sungkyunkwan Univ, Coll Sport Sci, 2066 Seobu Ro, Suwon 16419, South Korea; [Humphreys, Brad R.] West Virginia Univ, Coll Business & Econ, Dept Econ, Morgantown, WV 26506 USA; [Khalil, Umair] Monash Univ, Ctr Dev Econ & Sustainabil, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Pyun, Hyunwoong] Sungkyunkwan Univ, Coll Sport Sci, 2066 Seobu Ro, Suwon 16419, South Korea								3							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000816117500001	27	Article; Article		
J	Wakeling, James M.; Pratt, Jaylene S.; Smieskova, Stanislava								Stroke technique in C1 canoe slalom: a simulation study								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	12			2499	2509		10.1080/14763141.2022.2088401			DEC 1 2024	2024	Male C1 canoe slalom athletes traditionally used cross transitions to move their paddle to the other side of the boat and off-side strokes to paddle on their non-dominant side. Conversely, female athletes often use a switching transition and on-side strokes on their non-dominant side. The purpose of this study was to use a computer model to assess the relation between cross- or switching techniques, and the relative strength (symmetry) of non-dominant compared to dominant side strokes to race times in C1 canoe slalom. We created a forward dynamics model to predict race times using stroke forces (from an indoor ergometer), drag forces (measured on-water), and probability distributions for stroke and transition times (measured from international canoe slalom competitions). The main effects from an ANOVA (p<0.05) were (i) for a given transition number and strength symmetry the race times were faster when using cross-transitions than switch-transitions (ii) for a given strength symmetry the race times became slower as the number of switch transitions increased, but there was minimal effect of the number of cross-transitions, and (iii) the closer the strength of the strokes were between the dominant and non-dominant side (as symmetry factor approached 100 %), the faster the race times.		[Wakeling, James M.; Pratt, Jaylene S.; Smieskova, Stanislava] Simon Fraser Univ, Dept Biomed Physiol & Kinesiol, Burnaby, BC, Canada; [Wakeling, James M.] Simon Fraser Univ, Dept Biomed Physiol & Kinesiol, Burnaby, BC, Canada								4							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000814130400001	14	Article; Article		
J	Astridge, Daniel; McKenna, Michael; Campbell, Adrian; Turner, Anthony P.								Inconsistency between objective and subjective comparisons of sleep quality is found between sea level and moderate terrestrial altitude (2,320m) in high-performance swimmers								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	4			1113	1122	17479541221109150	10.1177/17479541221109150			AUG 2023	2023	It is popular for high-performance athletes to attend training camps at natural moderate altitude (1800-2500m), which may have direct and indirect effects on the quantity and quality of sleep athletes obtain. This can potentially influence the ability to maximise training responses and optimise recovery from exercise. This study aimed to compare objective and subjective markers of sleep quality between sea level (SL) and moderate altitude (ALT) in a sample of 14 (male n = 5, female n = 9) high-performance collegiate swimmers. Sleep was objectively (wristwatch actigraphy) and subjectively (Athlete Sleep Screening Questionnaire; ASSQ) assessed at SL and an ALT of 2,320m. A significant increase (p = 0.028, d = 0.76) in the 'sleep difficulty score' calculated from the ASSQ was identified from SL (4.9 +/- 1.7 au) to ALT (6.6 +/- 2.3 au), with a greater number of the swimmers judged to have a more severe clinical sleep problem at ALT. Of the seven sleep characteristics assessed objectively, there were no significant differences identified between the two environments. Sleep disruption was found to substantially improve following rest/recovery days while at ALT. Although this study highlights possible inconsistencies between objective and subjective measures of sleep quality while at ALT, any suggestion of reduced sleep quality should be considered seriously. Practically, the present study demonstrates the importance of, at altitude, using both objective and subjective measures to monitor athlete sleep quality, and ensuring training schedules are carefully periodised, incorporating rest or recovery days within intense training blocks for optimal sleep quality to be achieved.		[Astridge, Daniel; Turner, Anthony P.] Univ Edinburgh, Inst Sport Phys Educ & Hlth Sci, Human Performance Sci Res Grp, Edinburgh, Midlothian, Scotland; [McKenna, Michael; Campbell, Adrian] Sportscotland Inst Sport, Performance Physiol Dept, Stirling, Scotland; [Astridge, Daniel] Univ Edinburgh, Inst Sport Phys Educ & Hlth Sci, Human Performance Sci Res Grp, Edinburgh, Midlothian, Scotland								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000814279600001	35	Article; Article		
J	Csato, Laszlo								Group draw with unknown qualified teams: A lesson from the 2022 FIFA World Cup draw								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	2			539	551	17479541221108799	10.1177/17479541221108799			APR 2023	2023	The draw for the 2022 FIFA World Cup has been organised before the identity of three winners of the play-offs is revealed. Seeding has been based on the FIFA World Ranking released on 31 March 2022 but these three teams have been drawn from the weakest Pot 4. We show that the official seeding policy does not balance the difficulty levels of the groups to the extent possible: a better alternative would have been to assign the placeholders according to the highest-ranked potential winner, similar to the rule used in the UEFA Champions League qualification. Our simulations reinforce that this is the best strategy in general to create balanced groups in the FIFA World Cup.		[Csato, Laszlo] Eatvos Lorand Res Network ELKH, Inst Comp Sci & Control SZTAKI, Lab Engn & Management Intelligence, Res Grp Operat Res & Decis Syst, Budapest, Hungary; [Csato, Laszlo] Corvinus Univ Budapest BCE, Dept Operat Res & Actuarial Sci, Budapest, Hungary; [Csato, Laszlo] Inst Comp Sci & Control SZTAKI, Kende St 13-17, Budapest, Hungary								15							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000814280000001	27	Article; Article		
J	Kirton, Michael J.; Burnley, Mitchel T.; Ramos, Joyce S.; Weatherwax, Ryan; Dalleck, Lance C.								The Effects of Standardised versus Individualised Aerobic Exercise Prescription on Fitness-Fatness Index in Sedentary Adults: A Randomised Controlled Trial								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				21	3			347	355		10.52082/jssm.2022.347			SEP 2022	2022	A poor Fitness Fatness Index (FFI) is associated with type 2 exercise prescription based on ventilatory thresholds is more effective than a standardised prescription in improving cardiorespiratory fitness (CRF), a key mediator of FFI. Thus, the aim of the current study was to determine the effectiveness of individualised versus standardised exercise prescription on FFI in sedentary adults. Thirty-eight sedentary individuals were randomised to 12-weeks of: (1) individualised exercise training using ventilatory thresholds (n = 19) or (2) standardised exercise training using a percentage of heart rate reserve (n = 19). A convenience sample was also recruited as a control group (n=8). Participants completed CRF exercise training three days per week, for 12-weeks on a motorised treadmill. FFI was calculated as CRF in metabolic equivalents (METs), divided by fatness determined by waist to height ratio (WtHR). A graded exercise test was used to measure CRF, and anthropometric measures (height and waist circumference) were assessed to ascertain WtHR. There was a difference in FFI change between study groups, whilst controlling for baseline FFI, F (2, 42) = 19.382 p < .001, partial ??2 = 0.480. The magnitude of FFI increase from baseline was significantly higher in the individualised (+15%) compared to the standardised (+10%) (p = 0.028) and control group (+4%) (p = <.001). The main finding of the present study is that individualised exercise prescription had the greatest effect on improving FFI in sedentary adults compared to a standardised prescription. Therefore, an individualised based exercise prescription should be considered a viable and practical method of improving FFI in sedentary adults.		[Kirton, Michael J.; Burnley, Mitchel T.; Ramos, Joyce S.] Flinders Univ S Australia, Caring Futures Inst, SHAPE Res Ctr, Clin Exercise Physiol,Coll Nursing & Hlth Sci, Adelaide, SA, Australia; [Weatherwax, Ryan] Univ Utah, Salt Lake City, UT USA; [Dalleck, Lance C.] Western Colorado Univ, Gunnison, CO USA; [Dalleck, Lance C.] Western Colorado Univ, Dept Recreat Exercise & Sport Sci, Gunnison, CO 81231 USA								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:000814127600001	45	Article; Article		
J	Akkari-Ghazouani, H.; Mkaouer, B.; Amara, S.; Jemni, M.; Chtara, M.								Effect of glissade-step on kinetic and kinematic variables of stag ring leaps with and without throw-catch of the ball in rhythmic gymnastics								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				22	2			222	234		10.1080/14763141.2022.2087535			FEB 1 2023	2023	This study focuses on certain characteristics of the jump take-offs in rhythmic gymnastics (RG). Rhythmic gymnasts always perform their jumps with the same preferred run-up technique, proceeded by a chasse-step in most of the cases. The overall idea was to analyse other step-techniques that could be performged on one-leg, which could prepare jumps. The aim of this study was to compare kinetic and kinematic variables between three-stag ring leaps with and without throwing-ball, performed using the glissade-step as a preparatory phase for take-off with one-leg these were as follows: glissade stag ring leap without-ball (GSWB), throw-ball glissade stag ring leap (TBGS) and glissade throw-ball stag ring leap (GTBS). Seven members of the Tunisian RG national team took part in this study. The technical elements were recorded in 2D using two-cameras on a specially designed floor carpet where a force-plate was integrated. The results showed that the three-leaps had significant impacts on the performance variables, especially on the force, the velocity and the flexibility. The GTBS was the most effective leap as the throw took place during the jump, which has increased its technicality and the applied physical variables, the vertical force, the rate of force development, the horizontal and vertical velocities and displacements.		[Akkari-Ghazouani, H.; Chtara, M.] Natl Ctr Med & Sci Sport, Tunisian Res Lab Sport Performance Optimizat, Tunis, Tunisia; [Akkari-Ghazouani, H.; Mkaouer, B.; Amara, S.; Chtara, M.] Manouba Univ, High Inst Sport & Phys Educ Ksar Said, Dept Individual Sports, Manouba 2010, Tunisia; [Amara, S.] Sultan Qaboos Univ, Coll Educ, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Muscat, Oman; [Jemni, M.] Hartpury Univ, Dept Sport & Exercise Sci, Gloucester, England; [Jemni, M.] Hartpury Coll, Gloucester, England; [Mkaouer, B.] Manouba Univ, High Inst Sport & Phys Educ Ksar Said, Dept Individual Sports, Manouba 2010, Tunisia								3							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000813707900001	56	Article; Article		
J	Giatsis, George								Performance indicators in women's volleyball Olympics and World Championships (2014-2021)								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	4			1266	1276	17479541221106378	10.1177/17479541221106378			AUG 2023	2023	The aim of this study was to explore the match and technical indicators between winning and losing women's teams in the Olympics and World Championships (2016-2021) depending on the final score of the matches and to compare the winners' technical indicators in 3-set matches to those of men in the respective competitions. A total of 281 volleyball matches were analyzed from the Women's Olympics (2016 and 2021) and World Championships (2014 and 2018). Discriminant function analysis determined which skill(s) contributed significantly to winning matches in every type of score. This study showed that the teams that won 3-0 and 3-1 matches had better performance in all scoring skills (serve, attack, block, and opponent errors) compared to their opponents, while the opponents' errors did not affect the result. In 5-set matches, block points were the main predictor of a team's success. In conclusion, the results of the women's teams at the highest level of volleyball matches, show that different performance indicators determine the match outcome. The attack is not the only skill that increases the probability of winning a match, since block and serve to contribute equally significantly. Furthermore, in 5-set matches, blocking is the technical skill that differentiates the winning from the losing teams. Finally, in 3-set matches, it seems that the performance indicators differ between women and men in attack efficiency, block, and opponent error points.		[Giatsis, George] Aristotle Univ Thessaloniki, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Thessaloniki, Greece; [Giatsis, George] Aristotle Univ Thessaloniki, Sch Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Thermi 57001, Greece								12							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000813627800001	52	Article; Article		
J	Saadat, Shekoofe; Stephenson, Mitchell L.; Gillette, Jason C.								Entry angle during jump landing changes biomechanical risk factors for ACL injury								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2022.2088399				2022	ACL injuries are common among athletes. The injury usually occurs during sport movements involving sudden direction changes when landing and cutting. Twenty-one healthy females performed a series of jump-land-jump movements. They jumped from a 28 cm box onto two in-ground force platforms, followed by a maximal vertical jump. The direction of the first jump was tested with seven entry angles, jumping to the right (90 R, 60 R and 30 R), straight forward (0), and jumping to the left (90 L, 60 L and 30 L). Kinematic and kinetic data were recorded for data analysis. During the first 100 ms of landing, participants had significantly smaller peak knee flexion angles, larger initial knee valgus angles and larger peak knee joint external valgus moments when jumping to the right (90 R, 60 R and 30 R) compared to straight forward (0), and jumping to the left (90 L, 60 L and 30 L). Thus, entry angles to the right may increase the risk of ACL injury in the right knee. We suggest that these types of jumps should be used with caution during ACL rehabilitation, but may be useful for testing ACL risk factors in healthy individuals.		[Saadat, Shekoofe; Gillette, Jason C.] Iowa State Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Ames, IA 50011 USA; [Stephenson, Mitchell L.] Univ Montana Western, Dept Hlth & Human Performance, Dillon, SC USA; [Saadat, Shekoofe] Iowa State Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Ames, IA 50011 USA								3							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000812651200001	31	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Johnson, David M.; Cumming, Sean P.; Bradley, Ben; Williams, Sean								How much training do English male academy players really do? Load inside and outside of a football academy								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	4			1123	1131	17479541221101847	10.1177/17479541221101847			AUG 2023	2023	To date, no studies have investigated the loads undertaken by elite youth footballers outside of their academy commitments. This study aimed to understand the load of English male academy football players' activity both inside and outside of the academy, as well as, how this load varies between age groups and days. Fifty-two male academy footballers were asked to record the duration, intensity and mode of moderate to vigorous physical activity undertaken outside of their academy training. These data were then combined with session Rating of Perceived Exertion load undertaken inside the academy over the corresponding period. Data were analysed using linear mixed models. The coefficient of variation (CV) was the between-subject standard deviation as a percentage of the mean. The variation of activity types players undertake outside the academy reduced with age. There was no significant difference in the 'outside of academy' load between age groups, but there was a significantly greater CV in the Under 15/16 (U15/16) group (CV = 164%) compared to the U12 (CV = 107%) and U13/14 (CV = 119%) age groups (P = 0.001). For the U12 group, there were no significant between-day differences in load outside of the academy or the combined (inside and outside) load. For the U13/14 and U15/16 groups, there were significant between-day differences in load outside of the academy, as well as, significant between-day differences in the combined load. Practitioners should consider how activities undertaken by players outside of the academy setting contribute to the weekly load periodisation and should modify their training schedules accordingly.		[Johnson, David M.; Cumming, Sean P.; Williams, Sean] Univ Bath, Dept Hlth, Bath BA2 7AY, Avon, England; [Johnson, David M.] West Ham United Football Club, London, England; [Bradley, Ben] AFC Bournemouth Football Club, Bournemouth, Dorset, England; [Johnson, David M.] Univ Bath, Dept Hlth, Bath BA2 7AY, Avon, England								11							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000812287500001	24	Article; Article		
J	Burke, Aoife; Dillon, Sarah; O'Connor, Siobhan; Whyte, Enda F.; Gore, Shane; Moran, Kieran A.								Relative and absolute reliability of shank and sacral running impact accelerations over a short- and long-term time frame								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2022.2086169				2022	Whilst running is hugely popular, running-related injuries (RRIs) are prevalent. High impact loading has been proposed to contribute to RRIs, with accelerometers becoming increasingly popular in estimating segmental loading for injury detection and biofeedback training. However, there is a lack of research examining the reliability of measures of impact acceleration across short- and long-term time periods, both prior to and following exerted running. The aim of this study was to assess the absolute and relative reliability of shank and sacral impact accelerations over a short- and long-term time period. Peak (Peak(accel)) and rate (Rate(accel)) of impact acceleration at the shank and sacrum were assessed in 18 recreational runners over short- and long-term time frames, across fixed and self-selected speeds. The relative and absolute reliabilities were investigated for pre- and post-exerted states of running. There was high-to-excellent relative reliability, and predominantly moderate absolute reliability for shank and sacrum Peak(accel) and Rate(accel) in the short- and long-term time frames between pre- and post-exerted states. High to excellent relative reliability of Peak(accel) and Rate(accel) at the shank and sacrum are appropriate and acceptable measures across short- and long-term time frames. These findings were consistent with different levels of speed and exertion. The minimal detectable change % was large for both sensors and associated measurements, indicating that their use may be limited to intervention studies that elicit large change (>30%) in these measures.		[Burke, Aoife; Dillon, Sarah; O'Connor, Siobhan; Whyte, Enda F.; Gore, Shane; Moran, Kieran A.] Dublin City Univ, Sch Hlth & Human Performance, Dublin, Ireland; [Burke, Aoife; Dillon, Sarah; Gore, Shane; Moran, Kieran A.] Dublin City Univ, Insight SFI Res Ctr Data Analyt, Dublin, Ireland; [O'Connor, Siobhan; Whyte, Enda F.; Moran, Kieran A.] Dublin City Univ, Ctr Injury Prevent & Performance Athlet Therapy &, Dublin, Ireland; [Burke, Aoife] Dublin City Univ, Sch Hlth & Human Performance, Dublin, Ireland; [Burke, Aoife] Dublin City Univ, Insight SFI Res Ctr Data Analyt, Dublin, Ireland								9							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000811104700001	54	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	de Lima, Leilane Alves; Reverdito, Riller Silva; Scaglia, Alcides Jose; Galatti, Larissa Rafaela								Engagement in athletic career: A study of female Brazilian handball world champions								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	4			1056	1066	17479541221106763	10.1177/17479541221106763			AUG 2023	2023	The aim of this study was to identify and describe elements that influenced the engagement of the 2013 Brazilian handball female world champions from grassroots to elite sports levels. Seven members of the team participated in a retrospective examination of their athletic development, with a mean of 20 years of sports experience. A semi-structured interview and questionnaire were used for data collection, and the script was based on the development stages of the Developmental Model of Sport Participation(1) and the dynamic elements of the Personal Assets Framework(2). The thematic analysis showed that the athletes' personal characteristics, their disparate environments, and the quality of their relationships were significant in their pathway to elite performance. The results show that well-structured settings are not important in the early years, but rather the coaches' interest in keeping young athletes engaged in sport is one of the key elements. Moreover, the advance in the maintenance years, training in a more structured setting and the coaches' caring attitude and attention to their athletes' feelings and emotions can lead to pathways toward excellence.		[de Lima, Leilane Alves; Scaglia, Alcides Jose; Galatti, Larissa Rafaela] Univ Estadual Campinas, Fac Phys Educ, Campinas, SP, Brazil; [Reverdito, Riller Silva] Univ Estado Mato Grosso, Fac Hlth Sci, Cuiaba, Brazil; [Scaglia, Alcides Jose; Galatti, Larissa Rafaela] Univ Estadual Campinas, Coll Sport Sci, Sch Appl Sci, Campinas, SP, Brazil; [Galatti, Larissa Rafaela] Univ Estadual Campinas, Fac Ciencias Aplicadas, Sch Appl Sci, R Pedro Zaccaria 1300, BR-13484350 Campinas, Brazil								12							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000813086800001	35	Article; Article		
J	Davies, Marianne; Stone, Joseph A.; Davids, Keith; Williams, Jane; O'Sullivan, Mark								Can't jump, won't jump: Affordances of the horse-rider dyad underpin skill adaptation in showjumping using a constraints-led approach								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	4			1313	1319	17479541221107379	10.1177/17479541221107379			AUG 2023	2023	Equestrianism is part of a global industry influenced by a rich history of over 4000 years of culture and tradition. As the only interspecies Olympic event, equestrianism is facing negative public perceptions of competition performance and traditional coaching practices. In this position paper, we propose a constraints-led approach as a framework for contemporising equestrian coaching practice. Ecological dynamics is the theoretical framework that underpins a constraints-led approach methodology, providing guiding principles that inform a nonlinear pedagogy in sport and physical education. A constraints-led approach focuses on the individual (organism/s), task and environmental constraints acting over multiple nested timescales and what this means for how behaviour emerges. Using examples from the equestrian discipline of showjumping, we outline how a constraints-led approach can inform coaching behaviour and practice design to support skill acquisition through co-adaptations in the horse-rider dyad system. By focussing on the horse-rider dyad as a complex system, there is a move away from a human-centric perspective of compliance and control of the horse, toward system agency and intentionality in problem solving. Practice design principles of intention, representativeness, constraints manipulation and functional variability support the dyad to co-adapt and interact effectively through practice to achieve performance goals. Skilful performance is developed through attunement to perceptual information that invites opportunities for action (affordances). Understanding the development of affordance perception in the horse-rider dyad could guide the application of a constraints-led approach to equestrian coaching practice.		[Davies, Marianne; Stone, Joseph A.; Davids, Keith; O'Sullivan, Mark] Sheffield Hallam Univ, Sport & Phys Act Res Ctr, Sheffield S1 1WB, S Yorkshire, England; [Williams, Jane] Hartpury Univ, Dept Equine Sci, Hartpury, England; [Davies, Marianne] Sheffield Hallam Univ, Sport & Phys Act Res Ctr, Sheffield S1 1WB, S Yorkshire, England								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000813089100001	57	Article; Article		
J	Marin, Kevin; Castellano, Julen								High-speed running distance and frequency in football training: When and how are they stimulated in a microcycle?								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	4			1132	1141	17479541221107982	10.1177/17479541221107982			AUG 2023	2023	Purpose: The aims of this study were to describe the distribution of the distance and frequency of the high-speed running performed by professional players during the training process, taking into account the duration of the microcycle (Mi) composed of 4, 5, 6 and 7 days between matches (MD). Total distance at high speed (HSR, >21 km center dot h(-1), in m), at very high-speed running (VHSR, >24 km center dot h(-1), in m) and sprint (SPR, >27 km center dot h(-1), in m) were recorded, in terms of distance (d) and frequency (n) during training sessions. Training data were obtained using global positioning technology from 23 professional football players belonging to the first team of the Spanish La Liga club during the 2017/18 season (n = 28 microcycles). There were no significant differences in volume (distance and frequency) of the different locomotive demands (LD) when Mi accumulated more days. Regardless of the duration of the Mi, the central days (MD-5, MD-4 and MD-3) accumulated more stimulus in HSR, VHSR and SPR compared to the post sessions (MD-6 and MD-7) and pre-match (MD-2 and MD-1) where the MD-2 was the day that required the least stimuli from the players (p < 0.05). The Mi7 presented significantly higher external load values in the MD-5 and MD-4 compared to the Mi5 and Mi4, where the MD-3 was the day that received the greatest stimulation in the locomotive demand (p < 0.01). The data demonstrate that the LD (HSR, VHSR and SPR), accumulated greater stimulus in the central days of Mi, far from the previous competition, favoring an optimal recovery without compromising performance for the next game.		[Marin, Kevin; Castellano, Julen] Univ Basque Country, UPV EHU, Vitoria, Spain; [Castellano, Julen] Univ Basque Country, Fac Educ & Sport, C Lasarte 71, Vitoria 01007, Spain								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000813083100001	45	Article; Article		
J	Lee, Seomgyun; Oh, Taeyeon								The role of trust in sports organization crisis communication: the case of the Houston Astros' sign-stealing scandal								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				24	1			90	107		10.1108/IJSMS-12-2021-0231			JAN 17 2023	2023	Purpose The current study examines (1) the relationships among the crisis response, trust and negative behavioral intentions (i.e. avoidance and revenge), (2) the mediation role of trust in the crisis communication of sports organization and (3) the moderation effect of team identification between the crisis response and trust. Design/methodology/approach A questionnaire was used to collect data from 324 Major League Baseball (MLB) fans who met specific criteria (i.e. background information; knowing about the Houston Astros sign-stealing scandal and how the team responded to it). Confirmatory factor analysis and structural equation modeling were employed to test the proposed hypotheses. Findings The findings showed that perceived adequacy of the crisis response positively influenced sports fans' perceived trust. This trust was negatively associated with revenge and avoidance intentions. The mediation effect of trust was also found in the relationship between the crisis response and both avoidance and revenge intentions. Regarding the interaction effect of team identification, however, the relationship between the crisis response and trust was not moderated by team identification levels. Originality/value The present study contributes to a comprehensive understanding of crisis communication in sports fans' perceptions and behavioral intentions. It illuminates a psychological process through which perceived adequacy of crisis response reduces negative behavioral intentions through trust.		[Lee, Seomgyun] Univ Mississippi, Hlth Exercise Sci & Recreat Management, Oxford, MS USA; [Oh, Taeyeon] Seoul Sch Integrated Sci & Technol, Seoul, South Korea; [Oh, Taeyeon] Seoul Sch Integrated Sci & Technol, Seoul, South Korea								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000809754700001	63	Article; Article		
J	Larsen, Stian; Kristiansen, Eirik; Falch, Hallvard Nygaard; Haugen, Markus Estifanos; Fimland, Marius Steiro; van den Tillaar, Roland								Effects of barbell load on kinematics, kinetics, and myoelectric activity in back squats								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2022.2085164				2022	Shortly after beginning the upward phase of a free-weight barbell back squat there is often a deacceleration phase (sticking region) that may lead to repetition failure. The cause for this region is not well understood. Therefore, this study investigated the effects of 90%, 100%, and 102% of 1-RM barbell loads on kinematics, kinetics, and myoelectric activity in back squats. Twelve resistance-trained healthy males (body mass: 83.5 +/- 7.8 kg, age: 27.3 +/- 3.8 years, height: 180.3 +/- 6.7 cm) participated in the study and lifted 134 +/- 17 kg at 90% and 149 +/- 19 kg at 100%, while they failed at 153 +/- 19 kg with 102% load. The main findings were that barbell displacement and barbell velocity in the sticking region decreased with increasing loads. Moreover, the external hip extensor moment increased with heavier loads, whereas the knee extension and ankle plantarflexion moments were similar during the concentric phase. Also, reduced hip and knee extension together with lower myoelectric activity for all hip extensors and vastus lateralis were found for the 102% load compared to the others. Our finding suggests that the increased external hip extensor moment together with lower hip extensor myoelectric activity due to a reduced hip extension and thereby are responsible for lifting failure among resistance-trained males.		[Larsen, Stian; Kristiansen, Eirik; Falch, Hallvard Nygaard; Haugen, Markus Estifanos; van den Tillaar, Roland] Nord Univ, Dept Sport Sci & Phys Educ, Levanger, Norway; [Fimland, Marius Steiro] Norwegian Univ Sci & Technol, Fac Med & Hlth Sci, Dept Neuromed & Movement Sci, Trondheim, Norway; [van den Tillaar, Roland] Nord Univ, Dept Sport Sci & Phys Educ, Levanger, Norway								17							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000809544500001	24	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Sethi, Nitin K.; Neidecker, John								Neuroimaging in professional combat sports: consensus statement from the association of ringside physicians								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				51	4			343	350		10.1080/00913847.2022.2083922			JUL 4 2023	2023	Professional boxing, kickboxing, and mixed martial arts (MMA) are popular sports with substantial risk for both acute and chronic traumatic brain injury (TBI). Although rare, combat sports athletes have died in the ring or soon after the completion of a bout. Deaths in these instances are usually the result of an acute catastrophic neurological event such as an acute subdural hematoma (SDH). Other causes may include acute epidural hematoma (EDH), subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH), intraparenchymal hemorrhage (IPH), or a controversial, rare, and still disputed clinical entity called second-impact syndrome (SIS). Neuroimaging or brain imaging is currently included in the process of registering for a license to compete in combat sports in some jurisdictions of the United States of America and around the world. However, the required imaging specifics and frequency vary with no consensus guidelines. The Association of Ringside Physicians (an international, nonprofit organization dedicated to the health and safety of the combat sports athlete) sets forth this consensus statement to establish neuroimaging guidelines in combat sports. Commissions, ringside physicians, combat sports athletes, trainers, promoters, sanctioning bodies, and other healthcare professionals can use this statement for risk stratification of a professional combat sports athlete prior to licensure, identifying high-risk athletes and for prognostication of the brain health of these athletes over the course of their career. Guidelines are also put forth regarding neuroimaging requirements in the immediate aftermath of a bout.		[Sethi, Nitin K.] New York Presbyterian Hosp, Weill Cornell Med Ctr, Dept Neurol, 525 East 68th St, New York, NY 10065 USA; [Neidecker, John] Orthoped Specialists North Carolina, Dept Sports Med, Raleigh, NC USA; [Sethi, Nitin K.] New York Presbyterian Hosp, Weill Cornell Med Ctr, Dept Neurol, 525 East 68th St, New York, NY 10065 USA								9							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000810442100001	39	Article; Article		
J	Puel, Frederic; Morlier, Julien; Pyne, David; Hellard, Philippe								Kinematic and dynamic analyses of the front crawl tumble turn in elite female swimmers								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				22	12			1683	1699		10.1080/14763141.2022.2073908			DEC 2 2023	2023	Based on a three-dimensional (3D) underwater analysis, the objective of the present study was to identify the biomechanical variables the most associated with turn times in 10 elite female swimmers. For each participant (95.7 +/- 2.6% of the 200 m freestyle world record), the best-time turn (from 3 m in to 3 m out, 2.89 +/- 0.08 s) was analysed from a three-dimensional (3D) direct linear transformation kinematical reconstruction and the use of a piezoelectric force platform. Bivariate analysis showed that lateral impulse was linked to turn time (r = -0.76, p = 0.01) as well as horizontal velocities at end of the glide and swim resumption (respectively, 1.88 +/- 0.2 m center dot s(-1) and 1.48 +/- 0.15 m center dot s(-1); r = -0.67 and -0.68; p < 0.05 for both variables). One variable was considered relevant in the best Lasso (Least Absolute Shrinkage and Selection Operator) model: the lateral impulse (8.8 +/- 5.1 N center dot s) during the placement sub-phase.The best tumble turn times were associated with higher lateral impulse during the placement and faster velocities during the underwater actions. The lateral impulse may reflect the swimmers' longitudinal rotation which was higher for the fastest swimmers.		[Puel, Frederic] Reims Univ, Lab Performance, Sante, Metrol,Soc,EA 7507, Bordeaux, France; [Morlier, Julien] Bordeaux Univ, CNRS UMR5218, IMS, PMH, Reims, France; [Pyne, David] Univ Canberra, Res Inst Sport & Exercise, Canberra, ACT, Australia; [Hellard, Philippe] CREPS Resource & Expertise Ctr Sports Performance, Bordeaux, France; [Hellard, Philippe] Rouen Univ, CETAPS EA3832, Mont St Aignan, France; [Hellard, Philippe] CREPS Resource & Expertise Ctr Sports Performance, Bordeaux, France; [Hellard, Philippe] Rouen Univ, CETAPS EA3832, Mont St Aignan, France								1							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000809796400001	60	Article; Article		
J	Glaviano, Neal R.; Holden, Sinead; Bazett-Jones, David M.; Singe, Stephanie M.; Rathleff, Michael S.								Living well (or not) with patellofemoral pain: A qualitative study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				56				1	7		10.1016/j.ptsp.2022.05.011			JUL 2022	2022	Objective: Patellofemoral pain (PFP) is a common musculoskeletal condition, which has a negative effect on physical activity and function. Currently, it is unknown how and why individuals with PFP modify their physical activity. The purpose of this qualitative study was to explore the experience of knee pain on physical activity and everyday life in individuals experiencing PFP. Design: Qualitative phenomenological interview study. Setting: University. Participants: Sixteen patients experiencing PFP. Main outcome measures: Semi-structured interviews were used to explore the pain experience on physical activity and daily living. Results: Patients with PFP attempted various strategies to remain physically active, such as identifying pain thresholds, activity modification, and pushing through their pain. Despite these various strategies to stay active, pain influenced their social life and patients demonstrated both fear avoidance beliefs and pain catastrophizing. Patients with PFP also reported barriers to seek care for their knee pain, such as negative past experiences with health care professionals and care not aligned with the best evidence available. Conclusion: Clinicians treating PFP should be aware of biologic, psychological, and social aspects when evaluating and intervening with patients.		[Glaviano, Neal R.; Singe, Stephanie M.] Univ Connecticut, Coll Agr Hlth & Nat Resources, Dept Kinesiol, Storrs, CT USA; [Holden, Sinead; Rathleff, Michael S.] Aalborg Univ, Dept Clin Med, Res Unit Gen Practice Aalborg, Aalborg, Denmark; [Holden, Sinead; Rathleff, Michael S.] Aalborg Univ, Dept Hlth Sci & Technol, SMI, Aalborg, Denmark; [Bazett-Jones, David M.] Univ Toledo, Sch Hlth & Human Serv, Toledo, OH 43606 USA; [Glaviano, Neal R.] ATC Univ Connecticut, Coll Agr Hlth, Nat Resources Dept Kinesiol, 2095 Hillside Rd,U-1110, Storrs, CT 06269 USA								26							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000829903700001	37	Article; Article		
J	Colomar, Joshua; Corbi, Francisco; Baiget, Ernest								Relationship between isometric force-time curve variables and serve velocity in young tennis players								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	12			3009	3021		10.1080/14763141.2022.2084151			DEC 1 2024	2024	This study aimed to investigate the associations between serve velocity (SV), maximal absolute and relative isometric voluntary contraction (MVC and RMVC), peak rate of force development (PRFD), rate of force development (RFD) and impulse (IMP) at different stages of contraction (<= 200 ms). Sixteen players performed four maximum isometric tests in positions involved in the tennis serve motion. Variables tested included MVC, PRFD, RFD and IMP at 50, 100, 150 and 200 ms while performing a 90 degrees shoulder internal rotation (SHIR), shoulder flexion (SHF), horizontal shoulder abduction (SHABD) and an isometric mid-thigh pull (IMTP). Significant (p <= 0.05) moderate-to-very-large correlations were found between SV, MVC and PRFD. RFD at different time intervals showed positive associations with SV, except in the SHF0-200 ms and IMTP0-200 ms. Accordingly, IMP values positively correlated with SV in all positions except in the SHIR0-50 ms and the IMTP in late contraction stages. Results indicate that the combination of maximum isometric strength in several body positions involved in the serve kinetic chain alongside RFD and IMP in short periods of time (<= 200 ms) positively influences SV in young participants.		[Colomar, Joshua; Baiget, Ernest] Univ Barcelona, Natl Inst Sport & Phys Educ INEFC, Barcelona, Spain; [Colomar, Joshua] Univ Vic, Cent Univ Catalonia, Sport & Phys Act Studies Ctr CEEAF, Vic, Spain; [Colomar, Joshua] Univ Vic, Cent Univ Catalonia, SPARG, Vic, Spain; [Corbi, Francisco] Univ Lleida, Natl Inst Sport & Phys Educ INEFC, Lleida, Spain; [Colomar, Joshua] Univ Barcelona, Natl Inst Sport & Phys Educ INEFC, Barcelona, Spain; [Colomar, Joshua] Univ Vic, Cent Univ Catalonia, Sport & Phys Act Studies Ctr CEEAF, Vic, Spain; [Colomar, Joshua] Univ Vic, Cent Univ Catalonia, SPARG, Vic, Spain								5							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000808162500001	33	Article; Article		
J	Venne, Andre; Bailly, Francois; Charbonneau, Eve; Dowling-Medley, Jennifer; Begon, Mickael								Optimal estimation of complex aerial movements using dynamic optimisation								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				22	2			300	315		10.1080/14763141.2022.2066015			FEB 1 2023	2023	When estimating full-body motion from experimental data, inverse kinematics followed by inverse dynamics does not guarantee dynamical consistency of the resulting motion, especially in movements where the trajectory depends heavily on the initial state, such as in free-fall. Our objective was to estimate dynamically consistent joint kinematics and kinetics of complex aerial movements. A 42-degrees-of-freedom model with 95 markers was personalised for five elite trampoline athletes performing various backward and forward twisting somersaults. Using dynamic optimisation, our algorithm estimated joint angles, velocities and torques by tracking the recorded marker positions. Kinematics, kinetics, angular and linear momenta, and marker tracking difference were compared to results of an Extended Kalman Filter (EKF) followed by inverse dynamics. Angular momentum and horizontal linear momentum were conserved throughout the estimated motion, as per free-fall dynamics. Marker tracking difference went from 17 +/- 4 mm for the EKF to 36 +/- 11 mm with dynamic optimisation tracking the experimental markers, and to 49 +/- 9 mm with dynamic optimisation tracking EKF joint angles. Joint angles from the dynamic optimisations were similar to those of the EKF, and joint torques were smoother. This approach satisfies the dynamics of complex aerial rigid-body movements while remaining close to the experimental 3D marker dataset.		[Venne, Andre; Charbonneau, Eve; Dowling-Medley, Jennifer; Begon, Mickael] Univ Montreal, Lab Simulat & Modelisat Mouvement, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Bailly, Francois] Natl Inst Res Comp Sci & Automat, CaminTeam, Montpellier, France; [Venne, Andre] Univ Montreal, Lab Simulat & Modelisat Mouvement, Montreal, PQ, Canada								8							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000807607100001	52	Article; Article		
J	Perez-Castilla, Alejandro; Garcia-Pinillos, Felipe; Ramirez-Campillo, Rodrigo; Ruiz-Alias, Santiago A.								Effect of intra-session exercise sequence on the load-velocity relationship variables after a concurrent sprint interval and resistance training program								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	4			1164	1172	17479541221105458	10.1177/17479541221105458			AUG 2023	2023	This study aimed to examine the effects of altering the intra-session exercise sequence of a concurrent training program on the load-velocity relationship variables obtained from different compound exercises. Physically active subjects (n = 24, age = similar to 21 years) were assigned to one group that performed sprint interval training (sprints: 4-6; intensity: all-out; duration: 30 s; rest: 4 min) followed by resistance training (exercises: back squat and bench press; sets per exercise: 4-6; load: 60-80% of the one-repetition maximum; repetition in reserve: 6-1; rest: 2 min) (SIT + RT) or another group that performed the opposite sequence (RT + SIT). Exercises modes were separated by 10 min. Both groups trained three times per week over an eight-week period. The individualized load-velocity relationships were assessed before and after training through an incremental loading test during the back squat and bench press exercises and three variables were subsequently calculated: load-axis intercept (L-0), velocity-axis intercept (v(0)), and area under the line (A(line) = L-0.v(0)/2). Regardless of exercise sequence, both groups increased L-0 (ES range = 0.78-0.91) and A(line) (ES range = 0.50-0.55) but decreased v(0) (ES range = -0.36 to -0.46) during the back squat exercise, while all load-velocity relationship variables were increased (ES range = 0.04-2.20) during the bench press exercise. The SIT + RT group showed a moderately greater bench press v(0) increase compared to the RT + SIT group (ES = -1.07). These results indicate that both intra-session exercise sequences can induce comparable improvements in the load-velocity relationship variables after an eight-week concurrent training program.		[Perez-Castilla, Alejandro; Garcia-Pinillos, Felipe; Ruiz-Alias, Santiago A.] Univ Granada, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Ctra Alfacar s n, Granada 18011, Spain; [Perez-Castilla, Alejandro; Garcia-Pinillos, Felipe; Ruiz-Alias, Santiago A.] Sport & Hlth Univ Res Ctr iMUDS, Granada, Spain; [Garcia-Pinillos, Felipe] Univ La Frontera, Dept Phys Educ Sports & Recreat, Temuco, Chile; [Ramirez-Campillo, Rodrigo] Univ Los Lagos, Dept Phys Act Sci, Human Performance Lab, Santiago, Chile; [Ramirez-Campillo, Rodrigo] Univ Andres Bello, Sch Phys Therapy, Fac Rehabil Sci, Exercise & Rehabil Sci Lab, Santiago, Chile; [Perez-Castilla, Alejandro] Univ Granada, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Ctra Alfacar s n, Granada 18011, Spain								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000809047400001	43	Article; Article		
J	Nieto, Sergio; Castellano, Julen; Echeazarra, Ibon; Fernandez, Eneko								Effects on collective behaviour and locomotor and neuromuscular response in young players by varying the length of the pitch in 11-a-side football								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	4			1229	1239		10.1177/17479541221101603			AUG 2023	2023	The aim of this study was to describe the effects on collective behaviour and the physical response of young elite football players (Under 15) in the same 11 versus 11 task in three different pitch lengths (100, 75 and 50 m, LSG 100, LSG75 and LSG50, respectively), keeping the width constant (60 m). The intra-team variables were: convex hull (CH), stretch index (SI), width (W), length (L) and length/width (L/W). The inter-team variables were calculated by using the 20 outfield players: CH2, W2, L2, UW2 and DC (distance between centroids). The physical variables were: maximum speed (Vmax), number of accelerations (Acc) and decelerations (Dec) and total distance (TD). The results showed small (LSG100 > LSG75) and moderate-long differences (LSG100 > LSG50) for CH, SI and L. There was a moderate increase in DC and W2 (LSG50 > LSG75) and a moderate decrease in SI2, CH2, SI, L and CH (LSG75 > LSG50). The entropy was higher in SSG50 > LSG75 > LSG100. On a conditional level, the values showed differences between the three formats studied, showing more similarities between LSG50 and LSG100 than with LSG75. The main conclusion of the study was that the variation in the dimensions of the pitch caused a non-linear variation in the behavioural and conditional response in teams and players.		[Nieto, Sergio; Castellano, Julen; Echeazarra, Ibon; Fernandez, Eneko] Univ Basque Country UPV EHU, Fac Educ & Sport, Vitoria, Spain; [Nieto, Sergio] Univ Basque Country UPV EHU, Fac Educ & Sport, Vitoria, Spain								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000810478900001	37	Article; Article		
J	Li, Xiayuan; Xia, Zhengliang; Liu, Feiliang; Guo, Jinzhong; Wu, Xie; Liu, Yu								Factor analysis of the biomechanical parameters of pole vault run-up and takeoff: exploring sports performance								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	12			2974	2994		10.1080/14763141.2022.2080104			DEC 1 2024	2024	This study aimed to explore a parameter system and build a linear prediction model to effectively and comprehensively evaluate pole vault performance. The Qualisys motion capture system (200 Hz) and three Kistler force platforms (2000 Hz) were used to collect the athletes' kinematics and ground reaction force data of run-up and takeoff. Finally, 26 biomechanical parameters of 30 successful vaults of eight athletes were analysed by factor analysis, and linear regression analysis was conducted on the extracted factors. Three factors were extracted by factor analysis: F1, F2, and F3. The mean maximum COM height of the 30 vaults was 4.974 m. The score of F2 and F1 increased by 1, and the maximum COM height increased by 0.131 m and 0.112 m, respectively. The F3 did not participate in the prediction of performance. For the training of coaches and athletes, athletes of a higher stature need to expend more effort to achieve a higher training level. Furthermore, improving the speed, mechanical energy, and horizontal propulsion GRF of run-up and takeoff, as well as optimising the force generation strategy of the three lower limb joints in the takeoff support phase, help to achieve a good pole vault performance.		[Li, Xiayuan; Xia, Zhengliang; Wu, Xie; Liu, Yu] Shanghai Univ Sport, Minist Educ, Key Lab Exercise & Hlth Sci, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Liu, Feiliang] Shanghai Univ Sport, Affiliated Sch Elite Sport, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Guo, Jinzhong] Xinjiang Univ Finance & Econ, Sch Informat Management, Urumqi, Peoples R China; [Liu, Yu] Shanghai Univ Sport, Minist Educ, Key Lab Exercise & Hlth Sci, Shanghai, Peoples R China								4							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000805688000001	41	Article; Article		
J	Barroso, Renato; do Carmo, Everton Crivoi; Foster, Carl; Skiba, Philip; Barbosa, Augusto Carvalho								Longitudinal analysis of the 800-m performances of the world's best female long-distance pool swimmer: A case study using critical speed and <i>D</i>′								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	4			1307	1312	17479541221104721	10.1177/17479541221104721			AUG 2023	2023	The purposes of this study were to ascertain how physiological adaptations, as reflected by critical speed and distance above critical speed (D '), impact the competitive performance of a world-class female long-distance swimmer; and to determine whether a model including the expenditure and recovery of D ' could be used to understand pacing in swimming. From August 2011 to August 2021, we retrieved 800-m performance and splits data from races in which she improved her time, and also the 400-m and 200-m freestyle performances from the same competitions. Performances from the 200, 400, and 800 m were used to estimate critical speed and D '. The 800-m splits were used to calculate the usage of D ' during the race and to investigate pacing. The differential W ' balance model (W '(BAL)) was used to calculate its analogous in swimming, the D '(BAL). Critical speed increased from 1.516 to 1.616 ms(-1) while D ' fluctuated similar to 15 m from 2011 to 2016. D '(BAL) approached 0 m at the end of the races and may be useful to understand pacing. Critical speed and 800-m speed presented a nearly perfect correlation (0.99, p < 0.001) suggesting that critical speed is of paramount importance for long-distance swimming performance. While critical speed is clearly important, D ' did not directly correlate with 800-m performance. This result suggests that the work capacity above critical speed is not a primary determinant of 800-m swimming performance. However, we cannot say it is unimportant, as minor improvements represent an opportunity to set world records. Outstanding long-distance performance seems to depend more on aerobic fitness than on the capacity to work above critical speed.		[Barroso, Renato] Univ Estadual Campinas, Sch Phys Educ, Av Erico Verissimo 701,Cidade Univ, Campinas, SP, Brazil; [do Carmo, Everton Crivoi] SENAC, Dept Phys Educ, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Foster, Carl] Univ Wisconsin, Dept Exercise & Sports Sci, La Crosse, WI 54601 USA; [Skiba, Philip] Advocate Lutheran Gen Hosp, Dept Sports Med, Park Ridge, IL USA; [Skiba, Philip] Univ Exeter, Coll Life & Environm Sci, Dept Sport & Hlth Sci, St Lukes Campus, Exeter, Devon, England; [Barbosa, Augusto Carvalho] Meazure Sport Sci, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Barroso, Renato] Univ Estadual Campinas, Sch Phys Educ, Av Erico Verissimo 701,Cidade Univ, Campinas, SP, Brazil								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000808657600001	39	Article; Article		
J	Cooke, Robert; Strang, Matthew; Lowe, Richard; Jain, Neil								The epidemiology of head injuries at 2019 Rugby Union World Cup								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				51	4			336	342		10.1080/00913847.2022.2083458			JUL 4 2023	2023	Introduction The sequelae of concussion are of growing concern within Rugby. World Rugby has introduced rule changes to improve player welfare and reduce head injury frequency. We aimed to report the incidence of head injuries and head injury assessment (HIA) at the 2019 Rugby World Cup (RWC). Methods We reviewed all 45 tournament matches and recorded the number of head injuries, the injured player's position, and the mechanism of injury; whether the player had an HIA; and if they returned to play following injury. We compared these findings with previous RWCs. Results We recorded 68 head injuries (1.33/game). Thirty-six players (52.9%) were removed from the field of play for an HIA. Of these, 23 (63.9%) failed and therefore considered to have concussion. The head injury rate in 2019 was 37.8 per 1000 player hours, which increased from previous tournaments (22.0 in 2015, 14.6 in 2011, and 4.7 in 2007). The concussion rate was 23 per 1000 player hours in 2019, which was lower than 29 in 2015. In 2019, 63.9% of HIAs were failed compared to 48.7% in 2015. We identified 17 cases where medical staff did not attend to a player suffering a head injury on-field. Of these, four players underwent an HIA after the match doctor reviewed the incident. Conclusion We recorded a higher rate of head injuries, and a player was more likely to fail their HIA than in previous tournaments. These findings may represent a greater awareness from medical staff and the benefits of education. However, 25% of head injuries not receiving an initial on-field assessment provide room for improvement.		[Cooke, Robert] Hlth Educ North West, Trauma & Orthopaed, Manchester, Lancs, England; [Strang, Matthew] Hlth Educ South West, Trauma & Orthopaed, Bristol, Avon, England; [Lowe, Richard] Hlth Educ North West, Anaesthet, Manchester, Lancs, England; [Jain, Neil] Pennine Acute NHS Fdn Trust, Trauma & Orthopaed, Manchester, Lancs, England; [Cooke, Robert] Hlth Educ North West, Trauma & Orthopaed, Manchester, Lancs, England								8							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000805247500001	24	Article; Article		
J	Vitali, Luca; Raffi, Milena; Piras, Alessandro								Acute Cardiovascular and Metabolic Effects of Different Warm-Up Protocols on Dynamic Apnea								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				21	2			298	307		10.52082/jssm.2022.298			JUN 2022	2022	The aim of this study was to evaluate the acute physiological response to different warm-up protocols on the dynamic apnea performance. The traditional approach, including a series of short-mid dives in water (WET warm-up), was compared to a more recent strategy, consisting in exercises performed outside the water (DRY warm-up). Nine athletes were tested in two different sessions, in which the only difference was the warm-up executed before 75m of dynamic apnea. Heart rate variability, baroreflex sensitivity, hemoglobin, blood lactate and the rate of perceived exertion were recorded and analyzed. With respect to WET condition, DRY showed lower lactate level before the dive (1.93 vs. 2.60 mmol/L, p = 0.006), higher autonomic indices and lower heart rate during the subsequent dynamic apnea. A significant correlation between lactate produced during WET with the duration of the subsequent dynamic apnea, suggests that higher lactate levels could affect the dive performance (72 vs. 70 sec, p = 0.028). The hemoglobin concentration and the rate of perceived exertion did not show significant differences between conditions. The present findings partially support the claims of freediving athletes who adopt the DRY warm-up, since it induces a more pronounced diving response, avoiding higher lactate levels and reducing the dive time of a dynamic apnea.		[Raffi, Milena; Piras, Alessandro] Univ Bologna, Dept Biomed & Neuromotor Sci, Bologna, Italy; [Vitali, Luca] Univ Bologna, Dept Life Qual Studies, Bologna, Italy; [Piras, Alessandro] Univ Bologna, Dept Biomed & Neuromotor Sci, Bologna, Italy								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:000809592900001	46	Article; Article		
J	Brooks, Toby; Dendy, Doug								Implementing an Injury Prevention and Performance Enhancement Program During a Softball Season for Young Female Athletes								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				44	3			11	20		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000675			JUN 2022	2022	Female athletes are up to 6 times more likely than males to sustain a significant noncontact knee injury. Although many reasons for this difference have been discussed, neuromuscular variances are trainable and strength programming can reduce the risk of injury and enhance performance for such athletes. Unfortunately, although such programming exists, injury rates remain largely unchanged over the past 2 decades, meaning there is a need for practical integration. This article describes a specific plan intended to be highly practical that can be used in softball practices and games to enhance the delivery of injury prevention and sport performance training.		[Brooks, Toby; Dendy, Doug] Texas Tech Univ, Hlth Sci Ctr, Dept Rehabil Sci, Lubbock, TX 79430 USA; [Brooks, Toby] Texas Tech Univ, Hlth Sci Ctr, Dept Rehabil Sci, Lubbock, TX 79430 USA								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:000804246400002	35	Article; Article		
J	Jones, Danielle; Newland, Aubrey								Implementing Effective Coaching Behaviors and Pedagogical Practices Into Strength and Conditioning								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				44	3			80	87		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000671			JUN 2022	2022	To help athletes be successful, strength and conditioning (S&C) coaches must be knowledgeable in and able to apply exercise science and interpersonal strategies for teaching athletes. Research suggests S&C coaches' education usually does not include information about pedagogical practices. The purpose of this article is to suggest pedagogical methods that will encourage the growth of lifelong learning skills and provide optimal opportunities for performance development. We propose implementing effective coaching behaviors and pedagogical practices into S&C that incorporate foundational coaching psychology principles (strengthening the coach-athlete relationship, empowering the athlete, and developing problem-solving skills) and sound pedagogical methods (questioning and video feedback).		[Jones, Danielle] Santa Barbara City Coll, Santa Barbara, CA 93109 USA; [Newland, Aubrey] Calif State Univ Chico, Chico, CA 95929 USA; [Jones, Danielle] Santa Barbara City Coll, Santa Barbara, CA 93109 USA								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:000804246400008	33	Article; Article		
J	Andreyo, Evan; Unverzagt, Casey; Schoenfeld, Brad J.								Influence of Minimalist Footwear on Running Performance and Injury								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				44	3			107	116		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000661			JUN 2022	2022	Runners and clinicians have long sought to enhance distance running performance and reduce the occurrence of running-related injuries. Footwear selection often comes to the forefront in such pursuits, yet remains a common source of controversy in the literature and practice. In particular, the utilization of minimalist footwear has fluctuated in popularity over the last several decades, with some proponents suggesting that it can promote improvements in running economy and reduce injury rates. However, a closer look at the literature shows anything but straightforward and consistent recommendations. The purpose of this article is to outline the effects of minimalist footwear on running performance and injury, with a focus on its associated impact on running mechanics. The authors also aim to identify who may be the ideal client to transition to minimalist running and how to minimize the risk of injury during the transition.		[Andreyo, Evan] Rocky Mt Univ Hlth Profess, Hlth Sci Degree Program, Philosophy, Provo, UT 84606 USA; [Unverzagt, Casey] Baylor Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Robbins Coll Hlth & Human Sci, Waco, TX 76798 USA; [Schoenfeld, Brad J.] CUNY, Lehman Coll, Dept Hlth Sci, Bronx, NY USA; [Andreyo, Evan] Rocky Mt Univ Hlth Profess, Hlth Sci Degree Program, Philosophy, Provo, UT 84606 USA								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:000804246400011	68	Article; Article		
J	Goncalves Panissa, Valeria Leme; Greco, Camila C.; Ribeiro, Natalia; Julio, Ursula F.; Tricoli, Valmor; Franchini, Emerson								Concurrent Training and the Acute Interference Effect on Strength: Reviewing the Relevant Variables								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				44	3			46	57		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000668			JUN 2022	2022	This review analyzes relevant variables involved in acute interference effects of concurrent training (CT) sessions of aerobic exercise followed by strength exercises. The aerobic exercise intensity, mode, volume, duration of recovery interval between exercises, muscle groups involved, and utilization of ergogenic aids are the variables identified in this review. High-intensity interval aerobic exercises result in more pronounced negative effects on strength-endurance exercise but not in maximal strength. Cycling results in more negative effects on strength-endurance performance exercise than running. A 4-hour to 8-hour recovery interval seems to be enough to avoid interference on strength-endurance performance. Reduction in strength-endurance performance is located in muscle groups involved in both exercises. Low aerobic exercise volume (3 km) with similar to 18 minutes of duration does not diminish strength endurance, whereas higher volumes (5 and 7 km) with similar to 30 and similar to 42 minutes of duration, respectively, generate impairments. Caffeine, carbohydrate, and beta-alanine are not able to revert the deleterious effect on strength-endurance performance, whereas creatine and capsaicin analog supplementation are. Thus, these variables must be taken into consideration to prescribe and organize a CT session. This information may help coaches to organize exercise sessions that minimize or avoid the impairment in strength performance after aerobic exercises.		[Goncalves Panissa, Valeria Leme; Julio, Ursula F.; Franchini, Emerson] Univ Sao Paulo, Sch Phys Educ & Sport, Dept Sport, High Intens Intermittent Exercise Physiol Res Grp, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Greco, Camila C.] Sao Paulo State Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Human Performance Lab, Rio Claro, Brazil; [Ribeiro, Natalia; Tricoli, Valmor] Univ Sao Paulo, Sch Phys Educ & Sport, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Goncalves Panissa, Valeria Leme] Univ Sao Paulo, Sch Phys Educ & Sport, Dept Sport, High Intens Intermittent Exercise Physiol Res Grp, Sao Paulo, Brazil								9							Sport Sciences	WOS:000804246400005	53	Article; Article		
J	Peng, Ken; Clarke, Dave C.; Swartz, Tim B.								Bayesian approaches for critical velocity modelling of data from intermittent efforts								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	4			868	879	17479541221100311	10.1177/17479541221100311			AUG 2022	2022	In sports science, critical power and related critical velocity models have been widely investigated, and are being increasingly applied to field-based team sports. A challenge associated with these models is that laboratory experiments that yield accurate measurements of maximal sustainable velocity are expensive. Alternatively, inexpensive field data (from training and matches) are being used to fit such models. However, the intermittent nature of efforts in field-based sports implies that the dependent variable concerning maximum sustainable velocity is reliably calibrated only for short time durations. This paper develops methods where field data based on short time durations is combined with prior knowledge to fit the three-parameter critical velocity model. This is accomplished in a Bayesian framework for which Markov chain methods are required for model fitting and inference.		[Peng, Ken; Swartz, Tim B.] Simon Fraser Univ, Dept Stat & Actuarial Sci, 8888 Univ Dr, Burnaby, BC V5A 1S6, Canada; [Clarke, Dave C.] Simon Fraser Univ, Dept Biomed Physiol & Kinesiol, Burnaby, BC, Canada; [Swartz, Tim B.] Simon Fraser Univ, Dept Stat & Actuarial Sci, 8888 Univ Dr, Burnaby, BC V5A 1S6, Canada								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000806231800001	18	Article; Article		
J	Wylde, Matthew J.; Callaway, Andrew J.; Williams, Jonathan M.; Yap, Jeter; Leow, Shina; Yong, Low Chee								Limb specific training magnitude and asymmetry measurement to discriminate between athletes with and without unilateral or bilateral lower limb injury history								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				56				76	83		10.1016/j.ptsp.2022.05.008			JUL 2022	2022	Objectives: This study investigates the use of tibia-mounted inertial measurement units (IMUs) as an alternative to upper trunk-mounted IMUs for assessing lower limb training magnitudes and asymmetries in Badminton players. Design: Cross-Sectional Study. Setting: Youth athlete training environment. Participants: Thirty-three adolescent Badminton players, grouped based on injury history (non -injured = 19, bilateral = 6, unilateral = 8). Main outcome measures: Players wore 1 upper trunk-mounted and 2 tibia-mounted IMUs during simulated match-play. Modified vector magnitudes were assessed to identify if the IMUs can discrimi-nate between injury history groups to assess the device location sensitivity, determine to what extent players exhibit movement asymmetry within the sport, and explore if asymmetries exist within groups with injury history. Results: Upper trunk-mounted IMUs could not distinguish between injury history groups. Statistically significant asymmetries were observed in the non-injured group, however these were below the 10% threshold for clinical asymmetry. No significant asymmetries were observed in the bilaterally injured group, while statistically significant asymmetries were observed in the unilaterally injured group, which were above the 10% threshold for clinical asymmetry. Conclusion: These results suggest that direct limb specific IMU measurement offers a method to suitably assess training magnitudes and asymmetry within a sporting performance, rather than isolated non -sport specific testing. ?? 2022 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).		[Wylde, Matthew J.; Callaway, Andrew J.; Williams, Jonathan M.] Bournemouth Univ, Dept Rehabil & Sport Sci, Bournemouth, Dorset, England; [Wylde, Matthew J.; Yap, Jeter; Leow, Shina; Yong, Low Chee] Natl Youth Sports Inst, 1 Champions Way, Singapore 737913, Singapore; [Leow, Shina] Univ Western Australia, Sch Human Sci Exercise & Sport Sci, Perth, WA, Australia; [Wylde, Matthew J.] Natl Youth Sports Inst, 1 Champions Way, Singapore 737913, Singapore								6							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000829327900002	34	Article; Article		
J	Kinoshita, Keita; Matsuoka, Hirotaka								Risk and psychological return: a moderating role of COVID-19 risk perception in the impact of team identification on vitality after sport spectatorship in Tokyo								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				24	1			20	37		10.1108/IJSMS-01-2022-0007			JAN 17 2023	2023	Purpose The purpose of the present study was to investigate the impact of sport fans' team identification on their emotional experiences (i.e. vitality and game satisfaction) using two-wave data in a specific sport event during the declaration of the emergency statement in Japan. The study also aims to test the moderating effects of risk perceptions about COVID-19 and the game outcome on the relationship between team identification and vitality/game satisfaction. Design/methodology/approach The present research was conducted in the context of a sport event in Tokyo (the Japanese Rugby Top League 2020-2021 Season Playoff Tournament Final) during the declaration of the emergency statement period in Japan. The data were collected through a two-wave design (before and after the game) from the spectators of the event. Findings Team identification significantly predicted higher vitality after the game but not game satisfaction. Additionally, the moderation test found that sport fans with high social risk perception about the COVID-19 showed a positive relationship between team identification and vitality but not for the fans with low social risk perception. Practical implications The present results suggest that sport events can be advertised for sport fans as a tool to increase physical and psychological energy in their daily lives during the pandemic. Originality/value The present study demonstrated that team identification predicted greater vitality after the spectatorship during the COVID-19 outbreak. In particular, higher social risk perception was a significant catalyst to improve vitality after the game.		[Kinoshita, Keita; Matsuoka, Hirotaka] Waseda Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Tokyo, Japan; [Kinoshita, Keita] Waseda Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Tokyo, Japan								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000800088900001	74	Article; Article		
J	Sacca, Massimo; Bondi, Danilo; Balducci, Fabrizio; Petri, Cristian; Mazza, Giuseppe								Intra- and Inter-Seasonal Fitness and Training Load Variations of Elite U20 Soccer Players								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	4			940	947		10.1080/02701367.2022.2074951			OCT 2 2023	2023	Inherent physical and anthropometric traits of elite soccer players, influenced by nature and nurture, account for the emergence of performances across time. Purpose: The present study aimed to evaluate inter- and intraseasonal differences and the influence of playing position on training and fitness metrics in talented young soccer players. Methods: A total of 74 male players from U20 teams of a single elite club were tested both at beginning, during, and at the end of three consecutive competitive seasons. Players under went anthropometric measurement and were tested for aerobic, jumping, and sprinting performances; the GPS-derived measures of metabolic power (MP) and equivalent distance index (ED) of every athlete were analyzed. Results: Difference between teams emerged in Mognoni's test, while it did not in countermovement jump and anthropometrics. ED was different across seasons. The model selection criteria revealed that the Bosco-Vittori test achieved the best fit. BMI and countermovement jump (CMJ) increased, and fat mass decreased, during season; different intraseasonal trends for CMJ. MP was slightly greater in midfielder. Conclusion: Network approaches in modeling performance metrics in sports team could unveil original interconnections between performance factors. In addition, the authors support multiparametric longitudinal assessments and a huge database of sports data for facilitating talent identification.		[Sacca, Massimo; Balducci, Fabrizio; Mazza, Giuseppe] Univ Firenze, Florence, Italy; [Bondi, Danilo] Univ G dAnnunzio, Pescara, Italy; [Balducci, Fabrizio] Scuola Reg Sport CONI Toscana, Florence, Italy; [Petri, Cristian] Univ Pablo de Olavide, Seville, Spain; [Bondi, Danilo] Univ G dAnnunzio, Dept Neurosci Imaging & Clin Sci, Via Vestini 31, I-66100 Chieti, Italy								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000800228200001	41	Article; Article		
J	Walker, Cherie; Warmenhoven, John; Sinclair, Peter; Cobley, Stephen								A continuous times-series and discrete measure analysis of two individual divers performing the 31/2 pike somersault dive								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				22	2			268	281		10.1080/14763141.2022.2062439			FEB 1 2023	2023	Springboard diving training is often focused upon skill repetition to establish movement accuracy, stability and consistency. Within-participant study designs provide the ability to understand how individuals create these skills under different movement strategies. IMUs measured angular velocity time-series data of two athletes performing multiple repetitions of forward 31/2 somersault pike dives. Functional Principal Component Analyses (fPCA) were performed to examine individual movement structure and variability. The first five fPC's represented approximately 98% of the variability in angular velocity for both divers. To determine the relative importance of angular velocity variability, Pearson's correlations for pairwise comparisons were used to assess the relationship between fPC scores and discrete performance variables during takeoff, flight and entry. Divers exhibited a different number and types of significant correlations (International = 4; National = 11). Only one correlation was common for both divers; higher angular velocity during Initial Flight and/or Somersault phases resulted in more vertically aligned entry posture (International: fPC1 r = -0.761, p fPC3 r = -0.796, p < 0.01). Findings identify individualised angular velocity time-series structure and kinematic performance variables (International = angular; National = linear) that can be used by coaching/sport science teams to optimisation performance success.		[Walker, Cherie; Warmenhoven, John; Sinclair, Peter; Cobley, Stephen] Univ Sydney, Fac Hlth Sci, Lidcombe, NSW, Australia; [Walker, Cherie] Inst Sport, Olympic Pk, NSW, Australia; [Warmenhoven, John] Univ New South Wales ACT, Sch Engn & Informat Technol, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Cobley, Stephen] Univ Sydney, Fac Hlth Sci, Lidcombe, NSW, Australia								2							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000801841700001	34	Article; Article		
J	Patel, Sumit; Lavoie-Gagne, Ophelie; Mehta, Nabil; Farah, Ghassan; Korrapati, Avinaash; Forsythe, Brian								Patellar fracture among elite-level European soccer players: 4-year case-control cohort analysis of return to play, re-injury, and player performance								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				51	3			275	284		10.1080/00913847.2022.2077087			MAY 4 2023	2023	Objectives There is a paucity of literature investigating the relationship between patellar fracture and player performance of professional soccer players following return to play (RTP). Our goal is to determine the rate of RTP, time to RTP, and effect on player performance following patellar fracture. Methods Twenty-one elite-level European professional soccer players who sustained a patellar fracture between 1999 and 2018 were identified via a publicly accessible database. Athletes with patellar fracture were matched to controls by age, height, years played in the league, season of injury, and position. Change in performance metrics between one season prior to injury and the following four seasons after injury were compared. Results Players with patellar fracture were absent for a mean 207.95 +/- 135.55 days and 16.81 +/- 31.79 games. Fifteen (71%) players returned to play after injury with 67% returning within 1 season after injury. Injured players did not demonstrate significant change in performance metrics at any of the follow-up timepoints compared to control. Subgroup analysis showed that attackers recorded approximately 1200 fewer minutes played per season than pre-injury levels 2 seasons following injury, significantly fewer (p < 0.05) than the control cohort recording similar minutes per season throughout the study period. Midfielders and defenders demonstrated similar fluctuations in performance to the control cohort for both field time and performance metrics (p > 0.05). Conclusion Seventy-one percent of players RTP after patellar fracture with an associated absence of 7 months and 17 missed games. Overall, injured players did not demonstrate a significant decline in performance as demonstrated by games played, total minutes played per season, minutes per game, assists, and goals 1 season after injury. Attackers played fewer minutes during the season of and 2 seasons after the initial injury.		[Patel, Sumit] Western Michigan Univ, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Homer Stryker MD Sch Med, Kalamazoo, MI USA; [Lavoie-Gagne, Ophelie] Harvard Med Sch, Harvard Combined Orthopaed Surg Program, Boston, MA USA; [Mehta, Nabil; Farah, Ghassan; Korrapati, Avinaash; Forsythe, Brian] Midwest Orthopaed Rush, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Chicago, IL USA; [Forsythe, Brian] 1611 W Harrison St,Suite 360, Chicago, IL 60621 USA								6							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000798146000001	35	Article; Article		
J	Michailidis, Yiannis; Ganotakis, Christoforos; Motsanos, Nikos; Metaxas, Thomas								The effects of an HIIT program on young soccer players' physical performance								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	4			1155	1163	17479541221102530	10.1177/17479541221102530			AUG 2023	2023	High-intensity interval training (HIIT) is widely used in soccer. The purpose of the study was to investigate the effect of an HIIT program on the performance of soccer players under the age of 17. Twenty-nine youth players participated in this study. Players were randomly separated into two groups: control group (n = 14) and intervention group which performed extra HIIT (EX, n = 15). The duration of the training program was 4 weeks. Sprint 10 m, 30 m, countermovement jump (CMJ), squat jump (SJ), Illinois agility test, YO-YO intermitted recovery test 1, and repeated sprint ability (RSA) test (RSAbest, RSAmean, RSAdecrement) were measured pre and post the training program. The performance in 10 m, Illinois test, and RSAmean improved in the EX group (P = 0.022, P = 0.047, and P = 0.045, respectively). The performances of the two groups differed significantly in post-measurement of 10 m, Illinois test, and RSAmean (P = 0.046, P = 0.039, and P = 0.044, respectively). This study supports that a short-term program of HIIT can improve acceleration, agility, and RSA performance.		[Michailidis, Yiannis; Ganotakis, Christoforos; Motsanos, Nikos; Metaxas, Thomas] Aristotle Univ Thessaloniki, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Lab Evaluat Human Biol Performance, New Bldg Labs,PO 57001, Thessaloniki, Greece; [Michailidis, Yiannis] Aristotle Univ Thessaloniki, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Lab Evaluat Human Biol Performance, New Bldg Labs,PO 57001, Thessaloniki, Greece								13							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000805359800001	45	Article; Article		
J	Kennedy, D.; Casebolt, J. B.; Farren, G. L.; Fiaud, V.; Bartlett, M.; Strong, L.								Electromyographic differences of the gluteus maximus, gluteus medius, biceps femoris, and vastus lateralis between the barbell hip thrust and barbell glute bridge								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	12			2935	2949		10.1080/14763141.2022.2074875			DEC 1 2024	2024	Hip extensor muscles are critical to sport performance as events requiring sprinting and forceful landings are highly dependent on these muscles. Despite biomechanical differences between the barbell hip thrust (BHT) and the barbell glute bridge (BGB), both are biomechanically efficient ways to load this musculature for training purposes. Research investigating the differences in muscular activity between the BHT and BGB has yet been conducted. The aim of this study was to investigate, through surface electromyography, if one exercise is more optimal than the other in producing greater muscle activation for specific hip extensor muscles. Ten male participants completed a two-part study protocol. Results revealed the BHT elicited significantly greater muscle activity within the vastus lateralis for peak and mean outcomes; however, the BGB elicited significantly greater muscle activity in the upper and lower gluteus maximus for peak and mean outcomes and mean outcome in the gluteus medius. Current findings suggest, the BGB is, at minimum, a superior substitute for the BHT for eliciting a larger magnitude of activity in the gluteus maximus. Future studies between the two exercises are warranted to discern which produces greater hypertrophy and whether adaption of the BHT or BGB transfers more optimally to sport performance.		[Kennedy, D.; Farren, G. L.; Fiaud, V.; Bartlett, M.; Strong, L.] West Texas A&M Univ, Dept Sports & Exercise Sci, Canyon, TX 79016 USA; [Casebolt, J. B.] Dynavec Resistance Syst, Dallas, TX USA; [Farren, G. L.] West Texas A&M Univ, Dept Sports & Exercise Sci, Canyon, TX 79016 USA								2							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000800883900001	48	Article; Article		
J	Cross, Jeffrey; Uhrig, Richard								Do Fans Impact Sports Outcomes? A COVID-19 Natural Experiment<SUP> * </SUP>								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				24	1			3	27	15270025221100204	10.1177/15270025221100204			JAN 2023	2023	This paper studies the effect of fan attendance on home field advantage in top European soccer leagues. We exploit exogenous variation in the level of fan attendance driven by COVID-19 mitigation policies and find that the home field advantage, as measured by home minus away (expected) goals, is reduced by more than 50% across the English Premier League, German Bundesliga, Italian Serie A, and Spanish La Liga. This leads to a decrease in probability for a home win, indicating that these goals are pivotal with respect to match outcomes.		[Cross, Jeffrey] Hamilton Coll, Utica, NY USA; [Uhrig, Richard] Univ Calif Santa Barbara, Santa Barbara, CA 93117 USA; [Uhrig, Richard] Univ Calif Santa Barbara, Santa Barbara, CA 93117 USA								30							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000800243900001	26	Article; Article		
J	Schons, Pedro; Birk Preissler, Artur Avelino; Berriel, Guilherme Pereira; Oses, Victor Hugo Szortyka; Kruel, Luiz Fernando Martins								Training, anthropometric, and physical performance profiles of players in the U19 men's volleyball at different in-game role								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	4			1198	1207	17479541221100058	10.1177/17479541221100058			AUG 2023	2023	The evolution of its rules has made the demands of different court in-game role more specific in terms of skills. However, it is unclear whether players in the U19 men's volleyball already have specifics according to their in-game role. Thus, the aim of this study was to compare the training profiles, anthropometric profiles, and physical performance profiles of male volleyball players aged under 19 at different in-game role. The 353 volleyball players (16.89 +/- 0.76 years) were evaluated prior to the Brazilian U19 men's state team championship games. The training profiles were evaluated using a questionnaire; the anthropometric profile was obtained by analyzing the body mass, body height, and arm span; and the physical performance profile was measured by changes in direction, sprint, block jump reach, and spike jump reach tests. One-way ANOVA test was used to compare players' in-game role, with a significance of alpha<0.05. Opposite hitters and middle blockers had less experience with volleyball (p < 0.001), but higher values for the anthropometric profile measurements (p < 0.001). In addition, the block jump reach and spike jump reach from these in-game role were higher than the setters and liberos (p < 0.001). Thus, male players in the U19 category of volleyball already have some specificities, and profile assessments can be performed to assist in choosing their in-game role.		[Schons, Pedro; Birk Preissler, Artur Avelino; Berriel, Guilherme Pereira; Oses, Victor Hugo Szortyka; Kruel, Luiz Fernando Martins] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Sul, Sch Phys Educ Phys Therapy & Dance, Exercise Res Lab, Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil; [Schons, Pedro; Birk Preissler, Artur Avelino; Berriel, Guilherme Pereira] Fac SOGIPA, Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil; [Berriel, Guilherme Pereira] Confederacao Brasileira Voleibol, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil; [Schons, Pedro] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Sul, Sch Phys Educ Phys Therapy & Dance, Exercise Res Lab, Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil; [Schons, Pedro] Swimming Ctr, Room 18,Felizardo St, BR-750 Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000799818500001	25	Article; Article		
J	Souglis, Athanasios G.; Travlos, Antonios K.; Andronikos, Georgios								The effect of proprioceptive training on technical soccer skills in female soccer								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	3			748	760		10.1177/17479541221097857			JUN 2023	2023	Development of perceptual-cognitive motor skills is a crucial factor influencing soccer training and competition. The aim of the study was to examine the effects of neuromuscular coordination, proprioceptive and balance exercises on physiological attributes and technical skills in female soccer. Female soccer players competing in Greek A Division (N =48) were assigned to intervention (N-1 =24) and control groups (N-2 =24). The Proprioceptive Training Intervention Program (PTIP) lasted approximately 20 min and was implemented five times per week for 16 weeks. It was hypothesized that the PTIP in addition to a regular training programme would significantly affect female soccer player perceptual-cognitive-motor capability as it was estimated with physiological attributes ((V) over dotO(2)max and agility) and motor performance soccer technical skills (juggling, heading, shooting, passing, and dribbling). All performance variables were measured prior and after the 1 6-weeks PTIP. Groups by Measures (2 x 2) ANOVAs with repeated measures on the second factor revealed that the intervention group decreased percent body fat and improved (V) over dotO(2)max and all technical skills in comparison to the control group after the PTIP (p < 0.05). The findings demonstrate the beneficial role of a proprioceptive training programme on both physiological attributes and technical skills in female soccer. Practical implications include the application of the intervention programme for monitoring and developing soccer players while also the use of the assessment tests to evaluate players.		[Souglis, Athanasios G.] Natl & Kapodistrian Univ Athens, Sch Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Antistasis 41, Daphne 17237, Greece; [Travlos, Antonios K.] Univ Peloponnese, Dept Sport Org & Management, Sparta, Greece; [Andronikos, Georgios] Edinburgh Napier Univ, Sch Appl Sci, Edinburgh, Midlothian, Scotland; [Souglis, Athanasios G.] Natl & Kapodistrian Univ Athens, Sch Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Antistasis 41, Daphne 17237, Greece								16							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000798954200001	52	Article; Article		
J	Kim, Sungkyung; Manoli, Argyro Elisavet								From horizontal to vertical relationships: how online community identification fosters sport fans' team identification and behavioural intentions								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				24	1			1	19		10.1108/IJSMS-09-2021-0188			JAN 17 2023	2023	Purpose With the remarkable advancements in information and communication technologies, comprehending online sport fan communities is being pushed further up in the agenda of sport teams worldwide. Based on social identity theory, the main purpose of this research paper is to test the mechanism of how horizontal relationships developed through online communities lead to vertical relationships such as team identification and behavioural intentions. Design/methodology/approach Using a sample of online baseball fan community members in South Korea (N = 400) and employing structural equations modelling, the current research examined the structural relations among online community identification, team identification, behavioural intention and WOM intention while testing moderating effect of perceived authenticity. Findings This study finds that online community identification has a significant positive impact on team-level consumer outcomes: team identification, behavioural intention and WOM intention. Team identification is verified as a significant determinant of both behavioural intention and WOM intention. Moreover, the partial mediating role of team identification in the relationships between online community identification and behavioural intentions are corroborated. Originality/value The present study furnishes essential information for identifying the underlying mechanism of how fan-to-fan horizontal relationships cultivate team-to-fan vertical relationships in the context of the virtual fan community.		[Kim, Sungkyung; Manoli, Argyro Elisavet] Loughborough Univ, Sch Sport Exercise & Hlth Sci, Loughborough, Leics, England; [Manoli, Argyro Elisavet] Loughborough Univ, Sch Sport Exercise & Hlth Sci, Loughborough, Leics, England								21							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000794097300001	68	Article; Article		
J	Garcia-Calvo, T.; Ponce-Bordon, J. C.; Leo, F. M.; Lopez-Del Campo, R.; Nevado-Garrosa, F.; Pulido, J. J.								How Does Ball Possession Affect the Physical Demands in Spanish LaLiga? A Multilevel Approach								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	4			931	939		10.1080/02701367.2022.2072798			OCT 2 2023	2023	Purpose: Using a multilevel approach, this study analyzed the relationship between ball possession and distance covered at different speed sections: total distance (TD), distance covered between 14.1-21 km center dot h-1 (MIRD), 21.1-24 km center dot h-1 (HIRD), and > 24.1 km center dot h-1 (VHIRD). Methods: The sample included 1,520 matches played by 80 Spanish professional soccer teams across four consecutive LaLiga seasons (from 2015/2016 to 2018/2019). Two observations were collected per match, one from each team, resulting in a total of 2,950 records (760 per season). Data were collected using Mediacoach (R). Results: At match level (i.e., grand-mean centered), ball possession negatively predicted all distances covered. At team level (i.e., group-mean centered), ball possession negatively predicted total distance covered and distance covered between 14.1-21 km center dot h-1. Furthermore, cross-level interactions (Match X Team) in ball possession negatively predicted all distances covered at speeds above 14.1 km center dot h-1. Specifically, in high-possession teams, the negative relationship between match ball possession and distances traveled at all speed ranges above 14.1 km center dot h-1 was stronger than in teams with medium or low possession. Conversely, match ball possession was positively related todistance covered at low intensities, and negatively related at high intensities in low-possession teams. Conclusion: These findings show practitioners and researchers that the distances covered at different speed ranges depend on technical-tactical parameters such as ball possession.		[Garcia-Calvo, T.; Ponce-Bordon, J. C.; Leo, F. M.; Pulido, J. J.] Univ Extremadura, Badajoz, Spain; [Lopez-Del Campo, R.] LaLiga Sport Res Sect, Madrid, Spain; [Nevado-Garrosa, F.] LaLiga Sport Anal Sect, Madrid, Spain; [Pulido, J. J.] Univ Extremadura, Fac Educ & Psychol, C Ave Elvas S-N, Badajoz 06006, Spain								12							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000801209900001	27	Article; Article		
J	Bini, Rodrigo Rico; Serrancoli, Gil; Pereira Santiago, Paulo Roberto; Pinto, Allan; Moura, Felipe								Validity of Neural Networks to Determine Body Position on the Bicycle								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	4			905	912		10.1080/02701367.2022.2070103			OCT 2 2023	2023	Purpose: With the increased access to neural networks trained to estimate body segments from images and videos, this study assessed the validity of some of these networks in enabling the assessment of body position on the bicycle. Methods: Fourteen cyclists pedaled stationarily in one session on their own bicycles while video was recorded from their sagittal plane. Reflective markers attached to key bony landmarks were used to manually digitize joint angles at two positions of the crank (3 o'clock and 6 o'clock) extracted from the videos (Reference method). These angles were compared to measurements taken from videos generated by two deep learning-based approaches designed to automatically estimate human joints (Microsoft Research Asia-MSRA and OpenPose). Results: Mean bias for OpenPose ranged between 0.03 degrees and 1.81 degrees, while the MSRA method presented errors between 2.29 degrees and 12.15 degrees. Correlation coefficients were stronger for OpenPose than for the MSRA method in relation to the Reference method for the torso (r = 0.94 vs. 0.92), hip (r = 0.69 vs. 0.60), knee (r = 0.80 vs. 0.71), and ankle (r = 0.23 vs. 0.20). Conclusion: OpenPose presented better accuracy than the MSRA method in determining body position on the bicycle, but both methods seem comparable in assessing implications from changes in bicycle configuration.		[Bini, Rodrigo Rico] La Trobe Univ, Flora Hill, Australia; [Serrancoli, Gil] Univ Politecn Cataluna, Barcelona, Spain; [Pereira Santiago, Paulo Roberto] Univ Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Pinto, Allan] State Univ Compinas, Inst Comp, Campinas, Brazil; [Moura, Felipe] Univ Estadual Londrina, Londrina, Parana, Brazil; [Bini, Rodrigo Rico] La Trobe Univ, Rural Hlth Sch, Flora Hill Campus, Flora Hill, Vic 3550, Australia								9							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000796455500001	33	Article; Article		
J	Bollinger, Lance M.; Brantley, Jason T.; Carpenter, Rebekah S.; Haydon, Mariam A.; Best, Stuart; Abel, Mark G.								Quadriceps electromyography during flywheel-based inertial training (FIT) and dynamic constant external resistance (DCER) squats at similar tempo								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2022.2071330				2022	Flywheel-based iso-inertial training (FIT) has been purported to provide enhanced adaptations to muscle overload compared to dynamic constant external resistance (DCER), but previous studies have not controlled for exercise intensity. We compared quadriceps electromyography (EMG) amplitude between FIT- and DCER-squats with similar tempo. Eleven (5 M and 6F) resistance-trained participants completed sets of five maximal velocity FIT (0.025 kg.m(2)) and DCER (55 +/- 15 %1RM) squats. Sagittal plane knee joint angles and surface EMG activity of the vastus lateralis (VL), vastus medialis (VM) and rectus femoris (RF) were measured. Repetition time and peak knee angles were similar between FIT and DCER squats. Mean knee angular velocity during the concentric (122.2 +/- 23.6 vs. 108.9 +/- 22.9, p = 0.022, Cohen's D: 0.820), but not eccentric, phase was significantly greater during FIT. Peak VM (210.4 +/- 49.3 vs. 177.5 +/- 56.3 % MVIC, p = 0.001; Cohen's D: 1.416), but not VL or RF, EMG amplitude was significantly greater in FIT compared to DCER. Mean EMG amplitude was significantly (p < 0.001) greater during the concentric than the eccentric phase for the VL and VM but not RF. Mean EMG amplitude was not significantly different between modes during either the concentric or eccentric phase. Quadriceps EMG amplitude is largely similar between FIT and DCER squats when matched for movement velocity.		[Bollinger, Lance M.; Brantley, Jason T.; Carpenter, Rebekah S.; Haydon, Mariam A.; Best, Stuart; Abel, Mark G.] Univ Kentucky, Dept Kinesiol & Hlth Promot, Lexington, KY 40506 USA; [Bollinger, Lance M.] Univ Kentucky, Dept Kinesiol & Hlth Promot, Lexington, KY 40506 USA								4							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000794916400001	27	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Gillies, Lachlan; McKay, Marnee; Kertanegara, Shane; Huertas, Nicolas; Nutt, Shannon; Peek, Kerry								The implementation of a neck strengthening exercise program in elite rugby union: A team case study over one season								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				55				248	255		10.1016/j.ptsp.2022.05.003			MAY 2022	2022	Objectives: To investigate the effect of a neck strengthening program on maximal isometric neck strength and incidence of head and neck injuries including concussion, and to evaluate the acceptability and feasibility of the program within one professional men's rugby union team over one season. Design: Pre-and post-intervention study. Methods: A phased neck strengthening program was implemented in one rugby union team (n = 26 Forward Group; n = 13 Back Group) throughout the 2020 Super Rugby season, with maximal isometric neck strength measured at each training phase. Strength changes were analysed using one-way, repeated measures analysis of variance and paired samples t-test. Injury data from 2019 to 2020 were compared using incidence rate ratios (IRR). Player and staff surveys, reported as percentage of agreement, assessed program acceptability and feasibility. Results: Forward Group's neck flexors (p < 0.001), left-lateral flexors (p = 0.04) and flexor/extensor ratio (p < 0.001) and Back Group's neck flexors (p = 0.01) significantly improved across the season, with uncertain evidence to support the reduction of head and neck injuries (IRR:0.86 (0.23-2.56) and concussion (IRR:0.63 (0.06-3.34) between seasons. Survey responses revealed high percentages of agreement for the program's acceptability and feasibility. Conclusions: Targeted sport-specific neck exercises have the potential to increase the maximal isometric neck strength of professional rugby players and may assist in reducing head and neck injuries including concussion. (c) 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Gillies, Lachlan; McKay, Marnee; Nutt, Shannon; Peek, Kerry] Univ Sydney, Fac Med & Hlth, Discipline Physiotherapy, Sydney Sch Hlth Sci, Camperdown, NSW, Australia; [Kertanegara, Shane; Huertas, Nicolas] NSW Rugby, NSW Waratahs, Daceyville, NSW, Australia; [Peek, Kerry] Fac Med & Hlth, Discipline Physiotherapy, Susan Wakil Hlth Bldg, Camperdown, NSW, Australia								13							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000802168400004	37	Article; Article		
J	Willy, Richard W.; Hoglund, Lisa T.; Glaviano, Neal R.; Bolgla, Lori A.; Bazett-Jones, David M.								Survey of confidence and knowledge to manage patellofemoral pain in readers versus nonreaders of the physical therapy clinical practice guideline								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				55				218	228		10.1016/j.ptsp.2022.04.009			MAY 2022	2022	Objectives: To compare beliefs of physical therapists (PTs) who read the clinical practice guideline (CPG) for the management of individuals with patellofemoral pain (PFP) to those who have not read the CPG. Design: Cross-sectional study. Setting: Online survey. Participants: 494 currently licensed/registered PTs or physiotherapists. Main outcome measures: Respondents answered Likert-based or open-ended questions regarding the diagnosis, prognosis, risk factors, and management of individuals with PFP, as well as confidence for managing individuals with PFP, especially the ability to identify beneficial and non-beneficial interventions. We dichotomized responses into participants who read (READERS) and did not read (NonREADERS) the CPG. Results: Most respondents held inaccurate beliefs about risk factors and prognosis; however, READERS' beliefs better aligned with the CPG than NonREADERS (P < 0.01). Most respondents correctly agreed that hip and knee exercise was the recommended treatment strategy; yet NonREADERS believed in implementing unsupported passive treatments (P < 0.01). READERS reported greater confidence in managing individuals with PFP, delivering evidence-based interventions, identifying less beneficial treatments, and locating evidence-based resources than NonREADERS (P < 0.01). Conclusion: While READERS and NonREADERS held accurate beliefs for exercise-based treatment for PFP, greater knowledge translation is needed to counter inaccurate beliefs regarding risk factors, prognostic factors, and passive treatments. (c) 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Willy, Richard W.] Univ Montana, Sch Phys Therapy & Rehabil Sci, 32 Campus Dr, Missoula, MT 59812 USA; [Hoglund, Lisa T.] Thomas Jefferson Univ, Jefferson Coll Rehabil Sci, Dept Phys Therapy, Philadelphia, PA 19107 USA; [Glaviano, Neal R.] Univ Connecticut, Dept Kinesiol, Storrs, CT USA; [Bolgla, Lori A.] Augusta Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Coll Allied Hlth Sci, Augusta, GA USA; [Bolgla, Lori A.] Augusta Univ, Med Coll Georgia, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Augusta, GA USA; [Bazett-Jones, David M.] Univ Toledo, Sch Exercise & Rehabil Sci, 2801 W Bancroft St, Toledo, OH 43606 USA; [Willy, Richard W.] Univ Montana, Sch Phys Therapy & Rehabil Sci, 32 Campus Dr, Missoula, MT 59812 USA								8							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000802168400001	44	Article; Article		
J	Chavez-Guevara, Isaac A.; Hernandez-Torres, Rosa P.; Trejo-Trejo, Marina; Moreno-Brito, Veronica; Gonzalez-Rodriguez, Everardo; Ramos-Jimenez, Arnulfo								Association Among Different Aerobic Threshold Markers and FATmax in Men With Obesity								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	3			861	868		10.1080/02701367.2022.2065235			JUL 3 2023	2023	Purpose: This work studies the interrelation of the first ventilatory threshold (VT1), the heart rate inflection point (HRIP), and the exercise intensity at which blood lactate started to accumulate (LIAB) or increased 1 mmol center dot L-1 above baseline (LT+1.0); and examinee their association with the exercise intensity eliciting maximal fat oxidation (FATmax). Methods: Eighteen young men with obesity performed an incremental-load exercise test on a treadmill after overnight fasting. Gas exchange, heart rate, and blood lactate concentration were recorded. Linear regression analysis was used to determine the association among FATmax and AeT markers. A standard error of estimate (SEE) <= 9 beats center dot min-1 and the concordance correlation coefficient (CCC) were used to examine the accuracy of different AeT for predicting FATmax heart rate. Results: The FATmax occurred at 36 +/- 7%VO2peak before the HRIP (41 +/- 6%VO2peak), LIAB (42 +/- 10%VO2peak), LT+1.0 (61 +/- 9%VO2peak) and VT1 (40 +/- 7%VO2peak). Furthermore, the HRIP (R2= 0.71; SEE= 6 beats center dot min-1; CCC=0.77), VT1 (R2= 0.76; SEE= 5 beats center dot min-1; CCC=0.84) and LIAB (R2= 0.77; SEE= 5 beats center dot min-1; CCC=0.85) were strongly associated to FATmax and showed an acceptable estimation error for predicting FATmax heart rate. Otherwise, LT+1.0 showed a moderate correlation with FATmax, a low accuracy for predicting FATmax HR (R2= 0.57; SEE= 7 beats center dot min-1; CCC=0.66) and a poor agreement with the rest of AeT markers (Bias: +20%VO2peak). Conclusion: The HRIP, LIAB and VT1 did not perfectly captured the FATmax, however, these could be exchanged for predicting the FATmax heart rate in men with obesity. Moreover, the LT+1.0 should not be used for AeT or FATmax assessment in men with obesity.		[Chavez-Guevara, Isaac A.; Ramos-Jimenez, Arnulfo] Ciudad Juarez Autonomous Univ, Ciudad Juarez, Chihuahua, Mexico; [Hernandez-Torres, Rosa P.; Moreno-Brito, Veronica; Gonzalez-Rodriguez, Everardo] Autonomous Univ Chihuahua, Campus 2, Chihuahua, Mexico; [Trejo-Trejo, Marina] Autonomous Univ Baja California, Mexicali, Baja California, Mexico; [Ramos-Jimenez, Arnulfo] Ciudad Juarez Autonomous Univ, Biomed Sci Inst, Dept Chem Sci, Chem Biol Sci PhD Grad Program, Ciudad Juarez 32310, Chihuahua, Mexico								9							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000791134500001	39	Article; Article		
J	Annesi, James J.								Coaction of Exercise and Eating Improvements Within a Behavioral Obesity Treatment: Directionality and Psychological Mechanisms								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	3			826	838		10.1080/02701367.2022.2057904			JUL 3 2023	2023	Purpose: Because coaction (a favorable change in one behavior increasing the probability of a similarly favorable change in another behavior) associated with health behaviors has been identified, directionalities of such relationships within weight-loss behaviors (e.g., exercise, healthy eating) and their theory-based psychological mechanisms requires more investigation. Method: Women with obesity and either disturbed mood (n = 61) or normal mood (n = 58) participated in a cogntive-behavioral weight-management treatment within a community setting. Analyses of both group differences, and mediation models using aggregate data of behavioral and psychological variables, were conducted. Results: Improvements in measures of self-regulation, self-efficacy, mood, exercise, and fruit/vegetable intake were significant overall; with fruit/vegetable increase greater in the disturbed mood group. The prediction of increase in fruits/vegetables from baseline-Month 6 by increase in exercise from bascline-Month 3 (beta = .24) was stronger than effects of change in fruit/vegetabe intake on exercise (beta = .16). Overall mediation models were significant where changes in self-regulation and self-efficacy were entered as serial mediators of predictions of fruit/vegetable change by change in exercise (R-2= .35 and .32), and vice versa (R-2= .24 and .23). Paths demonstrating effects through self-regulation change and self-efficacy change were significant in the prediction of eating and exercise changes, respectively. Conclusion: Contributions to advancements in behavioral theory and treatment curricula targeting self-regulation and self-efficacy to improve exercse-eating change relationships were suggested. ( )		[Annesi, James J.] Univ Alabama Birmingham, Birmingham, AL 35294 USA; [Annesi, James J.] Cent Coast YMCA, Monterey, CA USA; [Annesi, James J.] Univ Alabama Birmingham, Sch Hlth Profess, Dept Nutr Sci, 616 Webb Bldg,1675 Univ Blvd, Birmingham, AL 35294 USA								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000790662400001	82	Article; Article		
J	Horiuchi, Gen; Nakashima, Hirotaka								Torso dynamics during follow through in baseball batting								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2022.2071328				2022	The purpose of this study was to clarify the relationship between the bat swing speed immediately after the ball impact and the dynamics of the torso during the follow through in baseball batting. The batting motion and ground reaction forces acting on each foot for 29 collegiate baseball players were recorded using a motion capture system and two force plates. The biomechanical variables of the torso joint (i.e., the virtual joint that divides the torso between upper and lower) were calculated. For right-handed batters, the torque power of the right rotation in the torso joint was negative. Additionally, the bat head speed immediately after the ball impact was significantly correlated with the negative (i.e., right) peak rotation torque of the torso joint (r = > -.591, p < 0.001) and the negative peak power in the right rotation torque of the torso joint (r = > -.577, p = 0.001). These results suggest that the left external abdominal oblique muscle is in eccentric contraction during the follow through in baseball batting. Moreover, the results imply that the higher the bat head speed immediately after the ball impact, the higher the possibility to strain the abdominal oblique muscle.		[Horiuchi, Gen] Kansai Univ, Fac Hlth & Well Being, Osaka, Japan; [Nakashima, Hirotaka] Japan Inst Sports Sci, Dept Sports Res, Tokyo, Japan; [Horiuchi, Gen] Kansai Univ, Fac Hlth & Well Being, Osaka, Japan								5							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000790758600001	27	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Villers, James; Cardenas, Andrew; Gipson, Travis; Man, Emily								The Immediate Effect of Adding Lumbar Mobilization to A Static Stretching Program on Hamstrings Range of Motion: An Exploratory Study								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				21	2			253	259		10.52082/jssm.2022.253			JUN 2022	2022	A contributing risk factor and a byproduct of a hamstrings strain is limited hamstrings range of motion (ROM). Some evidence supports static stretching (SS) and lumbar spinal mobilization therapy (LSMT) as an effective means for increasing hamstrings ROM. However, the efficacy of combining LSMT and SS for increasing hamstrings ROM is unknown. The objective of the study is to quantify the immediate effects of the combination of LSMT and SS compared to LSMT and SS on hamstrings ROM in a healthy population. Thirty participants were randomized by block lateral lumbar PA mobilization at L-4); (2) SS; or (3) combination of LSMT and SS. Hamstrings ROM was measured pre- and postintervention by the active knee extension test (AKET). There was no group-by-time interaction effect (p = 0.871). Within group analysis revealed a significant statistical change and a large effect size: LSMT (p = .037, RCI = 3.36, d = 0.771); SS (p = 0.035, RCI The findings suggest that the combination of LSMT and SS does not have a further effect on hamstrings ROM compared to the individual results of LSMT or SS.		[Villers, James; Cardenas, Andrew; Gipson, Travis; Man, Emily] Angelo State Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, San Angelo, TX USA; [Villers, James] Dept Phys Therapy, ASU Stn 10923, San Angelo, TX 76909 USA								6							Sport Sciences	WOS:000797018000001	40	Article; Article		
J	Boillat, Thomas; Kourie, Alan; Thalange, Nandu; Du Plessis, Stefan; Loney, Tom								Guinness World Record: Personal Experience and Physiological Responses of a Non-Professional Athlete Successfully Covering 620 Km in 7-Days by Foot Across the United Arab Emirates								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				21	2			267	276		10.52082/jssm.2022.267			JUN 2022	2022	Ultra-endurance record-breaking attempts place significant meta-bolic, cardiovascular, and mechanical stress on the athlete. This research explores the personal experience and physiological re-sponses of a non-professional athlete attempting the Guinness World Record of covering 620 km on foot across the United Arab Emirates in 7-days or less. The participant wore a smartwatch throughout the challenge to collect heart rate, activity, and envi-ronmental temperature data. Anthropometric, body composition, and inflammatory, haematological, and endocrine biomarkers measurements were completed pre-and post-event. A pre-and post-event interview was conducted to collect data on training and preparation, and self-reported experiences during the challenge. Despite episodes of diarrhoea, vomiting, and muscle cramps due to hypohydration during the first days of the challenge, the par-ticipant successfully completed 619.01 km in six days, 21 hours, and 47 minutes (average pace 10.11 min/km) achieving a new Guinness World Record. Body mass remained unchanged, fat mass decreased, and fat-free mass especially in the legs increased over the seven days, most likely due to water retention. Bi-omarkers of stress, cell damage, and inflammation increased. Haematological markers related to red blood cells decreased probably due to exercise-induced increases in plasma volume with the participant classified with mild anaemia post-event. This case study reinforces the importance of amateur athletes attempt-ing similar ultra-endurance events adhering to a pre-planned hy-dration and nutrition strategy to maximise performance and min-imise the risk of injury.		[Boillat, Thomas; Du Plessis, Stefan; Loney, Tom] Mohammed Bin Rashid Univ Med & Hlth Sci, Coll Med, Dubai, U Arab Emirates; [Kourie, Alan] Mediclin Parkview Hosp, Sports Med Dept, Dubai, U Arab Emirates; [Thalange, Nandu] Al Jalila Childrens Specialty Hosp, Dubai, U Arab Emirates; [Boillat, Thomas] Mohammed Bin Rashid Univ Med & Hlth Sci, Coll Med, Dubai, U Arab Emirates								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:000797092500001	26	Article; Article		
J	Ferri-Caruana, Ana; Molla-Casanova, Sara; Baquedano-Moreno, Mireia; Serra-Ano, Pilar								Electromyographic activity of posterior kinetic chain muscles during hamstring strengthening exercises								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				55				205	210		10.1016/j.ptsp.2022.04.008			MAY 2022	2022	Objectives: To compare the muscle activation of the biceps femoris (BF), semitendinosus (ST), gluteus maximus (GM), and contralateral erector spinae (ES) in four specific eccentric hamstring-oriented exercises using overground maximal sprints as an EMG normalization method. Design: cross-sectional study. Participants: twenty-four healthy athletes participated in this study. Main outcome measures: The maximum EMG activation of all targeted muscles was measured during maximal sprints and four hamstring exercises: Nordic hamstring (NH), Russian belt (RB), glider (GL) and lying kick (LK). Maximum EMG activation during sprints were used to normalize EMG muscle activation. Results: RB and GL showed lower hamstrings activation (from 15.71% to 39.23% and from 26.34% to 31.23%, respectively), so these exercises may be used as the first step of the retraining. The higher hamstring activation was reached in the NH (from 20.15% to 66.81%) and the LK (from 50.5% to 61.2%). Regarding muscles comparison, BF and ST were the most dependent on the exercise ranging from 26.67% to 62.22%, and from 26.34% to 66.81%, respectively. Conclusions: Muscle activation is dependent on the exercise procedure. RB and GL should be used as a first step because of their low activation. Instead, NH and LK should be used at the last phases of retraining process. Considering the synergistic activation of the PKC muscles during LK, and because of its unilateral and explosive characteristics, LK seems a suitable exercise for retraining PKC muscles in general.		[Ferri-Caruana, Ana; Baquedano-Moreno, Mireia] Univ Valencia, Fac Sci Phys Act & Sport, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Valencia, Spain; [Molla-Casanova, Sara; Serra-Ano, Pilar] Univ Valencia, Fac Physiotherapy, Dept Physiotherapy, UBIC, Valencia, Spain; [Molla-Casanova, Sara] Univ Valencia, Fac Physiotherapy, Dept Physiotherapy, UBIC, Valencia, Spain								11							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000797765700001	41	Article; Article		
J	Filiz, Enes								Evaluation of Match Results of Five Successful Football Clubs With Ensemble Learning Algorithms								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	3			773	782		10.1080/02701367.2022.2053647			JUL 3 2023	2023	ABSTARCT Purpose: Football, one of the most popular and loved sports branches, always keeps its excitement, ambition, passion, joy and sadness together. European football, the football capital, is an attraction for fans and footballers. In this study, the official match results (league, country cup, European cup) of five successful football clubs (Bayern Munchen, Barcelona, Juventus, Manchester City, Paris Saint Germain) in the five major leagues of European football (La Liga, Premier League, Serie A, Bundesliga, Ligue 1) were evaluated. Method: For this analysis, ensemble learning algorithms (AdaBoost, Bagging) and machine learning algorithms (Naive Bayes, artificial neural networks, K-nearest neighbor, C4.5/Random forest/Reptree decision tree) were used. In addition, the attributes that play an active role in the classification of the match results of five successful football clubs were determined with the Symmetrical Uncertainty feature selection algorithm. Results: As effective attributes, "Conceded goal," "Half time result," "Scoring first" and "Shooting accuracy" attributes revealed to be common for five successful football clubs. In general, it was observed that ensemble learning algorithms gave successful results and AdaBoost/ANN algorithm was determined as the most successful. On the basis of football clubs, the most successful classification result was achieved for Barcelona with a rate of 99.3%. Conclusions: Obtained outputs from Ensemble learning and feature selection help sport researchers and football club planners understand and revise the match results of current football match strategies. The study has mainly twofold: to find best performer ensemble and machine learning algorithm(s) for classifying match results and to extract important features on match results.		[Filiz, Enes] Firat Univ, Elazig, Turkey; [Filiz, Enes] Balikesir Univ, Fac Econ & Adm Sci, Dept Business Adm, IBF Cags Campus, TR-10145 Balikesir, Turkey; [Filiz, Enes] Balikesir Univ, Fac Econ & Adm Sci, Dept Business Adm, IBF Cags Campus, TR-10145 Balikesir, Turkey								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000789750000001	47	Article; Article		
J	Glazier, Paul S.								An ecological-dynamical approach to golf science: implications for swing biomechanics, club design and customisation, and coaching practice								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2022.2067075				2022	It has previously been argued that science has only made a limited contribution to the sport of golf, particularly the human element. This lack of impact could, in part, be attributed to the absence of an appropriate theoretical framework in most empirical investigations of the golf swing. This position paper outlines an ecological-dynamical approach to golf science that is better able to capture the interactions among the many structural parts of a golfer, and the relations between a golfer, his or her equipment, and his or her surrounding environment than other theoretical approaches have hitherto. It is proposed that the conjoining of principles and concepts of ecological psychology and dynamical systems theory could make a significant contribution to the enhancement of knowledge and understanding of swing biomechanics, club design and customisation, and coaching practice. This approach could also provide a platform on which to integrate the various subdisciplines of sport and human movement science to gain a more holistic understanding of golf performance.										3							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000788912200001	139	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Ivan Ayala-Guzman, Cesar; Ortiz-Hernandez, Luis; Rodriguez Contreras, Marisela; Castrejon Naves, Aleksey; Avalos Trejo, Arturo								Energy Expenditure in Free-Living Physical Activities and Sedentary Behaviors in Mexican Schoolchildren								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	3			738	747		10.1080/02701367.2022.2053041			JUL 3 2023	2023	Purpose: Metabolic equivalents for youth (METy) are derived using the estimated basal metabolic rate (BMR). However, is unknown whether this METy can be different when measured resting energy expenditure (REE) is used. The purposes of this article are to: (a) To determine whether there is equivalence between METy values calculated using measured REE (METy-mea) and METy using predicted BMR (METy-est). (b) To determine whether METy values of different activities are dependent on age, sex, and body composition. Methods: A cross-sectional study with a sample of 122 Mexican children (5-11 years old) was conducted. With indirect calorimetry, energy expenditure was measured at rest and during 16 sedentary- to vigorous-intensity physical activities. METy were obtained in two forms: METy-mea and METy-est. Equivalence testing was used to compare METy-mea and METy-est. To examine the individual-level agreement, Bland-Altman plots were graphed, and intra-class correlation coefficients (ICC) were calculated. Linear regression models were estimated having METy as the outcome. Results: For 15 activities, there was equivalence between METy-mea and METy-est (t > 2.05, p < 0.050). However, at the individual-level, for 7 activities the agreement between METy-eREE and METy-mREE was inadequate (ICC<0.75). In the Bland-Altman plots was evident that in 8 activities METy-est was biased compared to METy-mea, METy-est had more correlations with body mass index and body fat. Conclusions: In conclusion, at group-level, for most activities METy-mea and METy-est were equivalent. However, at the individual level, METy-est of many activities is not a valid estimate of METy-mea. METy-est of many physical activities were dependent on adiposity, which could be an artifact introduced when BMR is predicted.		[Ivan Ayala-Guzman, Cesar] Univ Autonoma Metropolitana, Ciudad De Mexico, Mexico; [Ivan Ayala-Guzman, Cesar; Ortiz-Hernandez, Luis; Rodriguez Contreras, Marisela; Castrejon Naves, Aleksey; Avalos Trejo, Arturo] Univ Autonoma Metropolitana, Unidad Xochimilco, Calz Hueso 1100, Ciudad De Mexico 04960, Mexico; [Ortiz-Hernandez, Luis] Univ Autonoma Metropolitana, Unidad Xochimilco, Calz Hueso 1100, Ciudad De Mexico 04960, Mexico								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000788544600001	39	Article; Article		
J	Kim, Hyun Chul; Park, Ki Jun								The effect of rapid weight loss on sports injury in elite taekwondo athletes								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				51	4			313	319		10.1080/00913847.2022.2071113			JUL 4 2023	2023	Objectives The purpose of this study was to reveal the relationship of injury patterns between normal training period and weight loss period in Korea elite taekwondo athletes. Methods Since 2021, data for elite taekwondo athletes have been collected prospectively by the Korean Training Institute, there were 102 male and 95 female. The data were classified by sex, weight class, injury location, injuries during the normal training and weight loss periods. The chi 2 test was used to compare groups. The injury incidence rates were calculated as the number of injuries per 1,000 hours of training. Results A total of 703 injuries were recorded during normal training, and total of 149 injuries were recorded during the weight loss period. Taekwondo athletes showed a higher incidence of during the weight loss period than during the normal training period (3.66 VS 6.88; p < 0.001). The body parts affected by injury differed significantly between the normal training period and weight loss period (p = 0.033). Injury to the lower extremities or to the head and neck was relatively higher during the normal training period, while injury to the trunk and upper extremities was relatively higher during the weight loss period. Muscle, ligament, and bone injuries were common during both the normal training and weight loss periods. Level I injuries were relatively more frequent during normal training, while level II and III injuries were relatively more frequent during weight loss (p < 0.001). Conclusion Rapid weight loss is related to the injury patterns in taekwondo athletes. Injury incidence rate increases during rapid weight loss periods. Moreover, the injury site and injury severity depend on during normal training and during the weight loss period.		[Kim, Hyun Chul] Korean Sport & Olymp Comm, Dept Med & Sci, Chungcheongbuk Do, South Korea; [Park, Ki Jun] Sangji Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, 83 Sangjidae Gil, Wonju 26339, Gangwon Do, South Korea; [Park, Ki Jun] Sangji Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, 83 Sangjidae Gil, Wonju 26339, Gangwon Do, South Korea								19							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000794284300001	38	Article; Article		
J	Wang, Feng; Zheng, Guohua								Examining positional difference in basketball players' field goal accuracy using Bayesian Hierarchical Model								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	4			848	859	17479541221096772	10.1177/17479541221096772			AUG 2022	2022	This study developed a Bayesian Hierarchical Modeling Scheme to study the positional difference of field goal accuracy at different shooting distances, including less than 8 ft, 8-24 ft, and more than 24 ft. The approach was first applied to players' statistics in the National Basketball Association (NBA) 2018-2019 season in the USA. Results found that the overall accuracy decreases with the increase in shooting distance. When the shooting distance is less than 8 feet, players in the role of center have the highest accuracy (63.2%). The point guard and shooting guard have higher shooting accuracy than power forward and small forward. When the shooting distance is between 8 and 24 feet, the guards, including the shooting guard and point guard, have the highest shooting accuracy. For the 3-point field goal with a shooting distance of more than 24 feet, the point guard and shooting guard have the highest shooting accuracy, with a mode of 0.362, respectively. To further demonstrate the use of the proposed method, shooting accuracy at different distances was investigated for NBA basketball seasons in the last decade (2011-2020). Analyzes found that shooting accuracy for distinct positions at different shooting distances is generally higher in the last five years (from 2016-2017 season to 2020-2021 season) compared to the first five years (from 2011-2012 season to 2015-2016 season). Increases in the accuracy of field goals with shooting distance over 24 feet have been observed for players who take the roles of center, power forward, and shooting guard.		[Wang, Feng; Zheng, Guohua] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Leisure Sport, Shanghai 200438, Peoples R China; [Wang, Feng] Xiangnan Univ, Sch Phys Educ, Chenzhou, Peoples R China; [Zheng, Guohua] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Leisure Sport, Shanghai 200438, Peoples R China								8							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000789413700001	29	Article; Article		
J	Li, Dan; Watanabe, Nicholas Masafumi								Effects of Super Bowl advertising on online brand search: ten years of insights from 2011 to 2020								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				23	4			841	854		10.1108/IJSMS-07-2021-0151			AUG 19 2022	2022	Purpose This study aims to examine the cross-media effect of Super Bowl ads on online search behavior. Furthermore, the authors explored the role of ad likability in the effect. Design/methodology/approach This study used a quasi-experiment method to test the hypotheses. The subjects of investigation are the brands advertised during the past ten years of Super Bowl from 2011 to 2020 (n = 389). Search volume index data were collected through Google Trends. The authors used Ad Meter ratings to measure ad likability. Findings The findings indicate that Super Bowl advertisements stimulate consumers' likelihood to seek information about the advertised brands via search engines. The search volumes for brands hit a peak right after the Super Bowl advertising exposure. Additionally, ad likability influenced the increase in search volume. Consumers tend to search a brand online if they liked its Super Bowl ad. Originality/value The study contributes to the literature on Super Bowl advertising effectiveness by examining the impact of Super Bowl advertising on online search behavior and the role of ad likability in the relationship. Marketers will be able to utilize the increase in search volumes after the Super Bowl advertising exposure to further enhance brand engagement.		[Li, Dan] Widener Univ, Sch Business Adm, Chester, PA 19013 USA; [Watanabe, Nicholas Masafumi] Univ South Carolina, Dept Sport & Entertainment Management, Columbia, SC 29208 USA; [Li, Dan] Widener Univ, Sch Business Adm, Chester, PA 19013 USA								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000787341500001	66	Article; Article		
J	Swinton, Paul A.; Symon, Kevin; Maughan, Patrick; Burgess, Katherine E.; Dolan, Eimear								Time-course analysis following initial warm-up to inform pre-pitch entry preparations of soccer substitutes								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	4			860	867	17479541221095196	10.1177/17479541221095196			AUG 2022	2022	The purpose of this study was to investigate the time-course of decrements in physical performance following a pre-match warm-up in soccer players. Knowledge of this information could be used to inform re-warm-ups and pre-pitch entry practices of soccer substitutes. Data were collected over five sessions with 12 male youth professionals (15-17 yrs). Across the five sessions each player performed countermovement jumps (CMJ) and drop jumps (30 and 40 cm), pre-warm-up, immediately post-warm-up, and following 10-, 20-, 30-, 40-, and 50-min of inactivity. Physical performance was assessed by jump height and calculation of reactive strength index (RSI). Hierarchical generalised linear models (HGLMs) were fitted within a Bayesian framework to identify plausible time to achieve 10 to 50% decrements of the initial pre to post warm-up improvement. Mean improvements of 5.4 cm (95%CrI: 4.8 to 6.0), 0.24 ms(-1) (95%CrI: 0.19 to 0.29), and 0.32 ms(-1) (0.27 to 0.36) were obtained for the CMJ, and RSI measured from the 30 and 45 cm box, respectively. Decrements for all assessments were non-linear with the steepest rates of decline measured in the initial periods following warm-up. High probabilities were calculated (p >= 0.979) that up to 50% of the initial warm-up improvement for the CMJ would be lost between 20 and 30 min. The results of this study provide a guide for future research and practitioners managing the pre-pitch entry of soccer substitutes. It is suggested that practitioners consider and assess the effectiveness of exposing players to a re-warm-up between 20- and 30-min prior to pitch entry to maintain performance capabilities.		[Swinton, Paul A.; Symon, Kevin; Maughan, Patrick; Burgess, Katherine E.] Robert Gordon Univ, Sch Hlth Sci, Aberdeen, Scotland; [Symon, Kevin] Aberdeen Football Club, Aberdeen, Scotland; [Maughan, Patrick] Univ Glasgow, Coll Med Vet & Life Sci, Glasgow, Lanark, Scotland; [Dolan, Eimear] Univ Sao Paulo, Sch Phys Educ & Sport, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Swinton, Paul A.] Robert Gordon Univ, Sch Hlth Sci, Aberdeen, Scotland								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000798378600001	27	Article; Article		
J	Fujita, Rafael A.; Silva, Nilson R. S.; Bedo, Bruno L. S.; Gomes, Matheus M.								The Pre-Exhaustion Method Does Not Increase Muscle Activity in Target Muscle During Strength Training in Untrained Individuals								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				82	1			17	26		10.2478/hukin-2022-0027			APR 26 2022	2022	This study investigated the effects of the pre-exhaustion method on electromyographic activity (root mean square and median frequency) at different interval sets. Twenty adults with little or no experience in strength training performed the seated row exercise until muscular failure, with or without completing a previous pre-exhaustion set in a pullover exercise. Surface electrodes were placed over the latissimus dorsi, teres major, biceps brachii, and posterior deltoid muscles of the dominant side. The results showed no effect of pre-exhaustion on EMG activity of latissimus dorsi target muscle for any interval sets. Regarding median frequency, our results showed a consistent decrease throughout the sets (p>0.05). Also, our results revealed a decrease in posterior deltoid median frequency with pre-exhaustion (p=0.001). We conclude that the pre-exhaustion method seems ineffective in increasing the EMG activity of the desired muscle throughout all repetitions of strength training. Furthermore, pre-exhaustion seems to be a good way to increase fatigue in the posterior deltoid muscle.		[Fujita, Rafael A.; Gomes, Matheus M.] Univ Sao Paulo, Ribeirao Preto Coll Nursing, Ribeirao Preto, Brazil; [Fujita, Rafael A.; Silva, Nilson R. S.; Gomes, Matheus M.] Univ Sao Paulo, Sch Phys Educ & Sport Ribeirao Preto, Av Bandeirantes 3900, BR-14040907 Ribeirao Preto, SP, Brazil; [Bedo, Bruno L. S.] Univ Sao Paulo, Ribeirao Preto Med Sch, Ribeirao Preto, Brazil; [Gomes, Matheus M.] Univ Sao Paulo, Sch Phys Educ & Sport Ribeirao Preto, Av Bandeirantes 3900, BR-14040907 Ribeirao Preto, SP, Brazil								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:000790902000002	35	Article; Article		
J	Macarilla, Christian T.; Sautter, Nicholas M.; Robinson, Zac P.; Juber, Matthew C.; Hickmott, Landyn M.; Cerminaro, Rebecca M.; Benitez, Brian; Carzoli, Joseph P.; Bazyler, Caleb D.; Zoeller, Robert F.; Whitehurst, Michael; Zourdos, Michael C.								Accuracy of Predicting One-Repetition Maximum from Submaximal Velocity in the Barbell Back Squat and Bench Press								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				82	1			201	212		10.2478/hukin-2022-0046			APR 26 2022	2022	This study examined the accuracy of predicting a free-weight back squat and a bench press one-repetition maximum (1RM) using both 2- and 4-point submaximal average concentric velocity (ACV) methods. Seventeen resistance trained men performed a warm-up and a 1RM test on the squat and bench press with ACV assessed on all repetitions. The ACVs during the warm-up closest to 1.0 and 0.5m(.)s(-1) were used in the 2-point linear regression forecast of the 1RM and the ACVs established at loads closest to 20, 50, 70, and 80% of the 1RM were used in the 4-point 1RM prediction. Repeated measures ANOVA and Bland-Altman and Mountain plots were used to analyze agreement between predicted and actual 1RMs. ANOVA indicated significant differences between the predicted and the actual 1RM for both the 2- and 4-point equations in both exercises (p<0.001). The 2-point squat prediction overestimated the 1RM by 29.12 +/- 0.07kg and the 4-point squat prediction overestimated the 1RM by 38.53 +/- 5.01kg. The bench press 1RM was overestimated by 9.32 +/- 4.68kg with the 2-point method and by 7.15 +/- 6.66kg using the 4-point method. Bland-Altman and Mountain plots confirmed the ANOVA findings as data were not tightly conformed to the respective zero difference lines and Bland-Altman plots showed wide limits of agreement. These data demonstrate that both 2- and 4-point velocity methods predicted the bench press 1RM more accurately than the squat 1RM. However, a lack of agreement between the predicted and the actual 1RM was observed for both exercises when volitional velocity was used.		[Macarilla, Christian T.; Sautter, Nicholas M.; Robinson, Zac P.; Juber, Matthew C.; Hickmott, Landyn M.; Cerminaro, Rebecca M.; Benitez, Brian; Zoeller, Robert F.; Whitehurst, Michael; Zourdos, Michael C.] Florida Atlantic Univ, Dept Exercise Sci & Hlth Promot, Muscle Physiol Res Lab, Off Field House 11A,Room 126A, Boca Raton, FL 33431 USA; [Carzoli, Joseph P.] Univ Colorado, Dept Integrat Physiol, Boulder, CO 80309 USA; [Bazyler, Caleb D.] East Tennessee State Univ, Ctr Excellence & Sport Sci & Coach Educ, Dept Sport Exercise Recreat & Kinesiol, Johnson City, TN USA; [Zourdos, Michael C.] Florida Atlantic Univ, Dept Exercise Sci & Hlth Promot, Muscle Physiol Res Lab, Off Field House 11A,Room 126A, Boca Raton, FL 33431 USA								19							Sport Sciences	WOS:000790902000018	32	Article; Article		
J	Borysiuk, Zbigniew; Blaszczyszyn, Monika; Piechota, Katarzyna; Nowicki, Tadeusz								Movement Patterns of Polish National Paralympic Team Wheelchair Fencers with Regard to Muscle Activity and Co-Activation Time								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				82	1			223	232		10.2478/hukin-2022-0064			APR 26 2022	2022	The aim of this study was to determine muscle co-activation and muscle activity time using EMG in Paralympic wheelchair fencers categorized into two disability-level groups: A (n= 7) and B (n= 9). The study was carried out with the use of a 16-channel EMG system. The surface EMG electrodes were placed on the fencer's body along nine channels: arm muscles - deltoideus middle head (DEL), triceps brachii (TRI) and biceps brachii (BC); forearm muscles - extensor carpi radialis longus (ECR), flexor carpi radialis (FCR); postural (abdominal and back) muscles - the right and the left external oblique abdominal (EOA RT and LT) and latissimus dorsi (LD RT and LT). To assess the relative level of co-activation (simultaneous contraction of both muscles) for the TRI-BC, ECR-FCR, LD RT-EDA RT and LD LT-EDA LT muscle pairs, the co-activation index (CI) was calculated. The collected data were processed using Jamovi. The study hypotheses were verified at the level of significance of p <= 0.05 (Welch's t-test). The normal distribution of analyzed statistical features was checked with the Shapiro-Wilk test. The analysis of muscle activation time, as a percent ratio of three attempts executed in a series, confirmed the study assumptions. Fencers from Group A had a shorter activation time in all tested muscles, with the exception of the ECR (58.24), than fencers from Group B. This confirms that the activation of antagonist muscles representing a centrally programmed anticipatory mechanism stabilizing technical actions was particularly intensified in Group A fencers. The study results indicate that the standard co-activation index (CI) of key muscles involved in wheelchair fencing ranges from 48 to 51%.		[Borysiuk, Zbigniew; Blaszczyszyn, Monika; Piechota, Katarzyna] Opole Univ Technol, Fac Phys Educ & Physiotherapy, Proszkowska 76, PL-45758 Opole, Poland; [Nowicki, Tadeusz] IKS AWF Warszawa Integrat Sports Club, Warsaw, Poland; [Piechota, Katarzyna] Opole Univ Technol, Fac Phys Educ & Physiotherapy, Proszkowska 76, PL-45758 Opole, Poland								10							Sport Sciences	WOS:000790902000020	33	Article; Article		
J	Fernandez-Fernandez, Jaime; Loturco, Irineu; Luis Hernandez-Davo, Jose; Nakamura, Fabio Y.; Garcia-Tormo, Vicente; Alvarez-Dacal, Francisco; Martinez-Maseda, Jonathan; Garcia-Lopez, Juan								On-Court Change of Direction Test: An Effective Approach to Assess COD Performance in Badminton Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				82	1			155	164		10.2478/hukin-2022-0042			APR 26 2022	2022	The aim of this research was to assess the reliability of a specific change of direction test (i.e., "On-Court COD test") in youth badminton players, evaluate the effect of age on On-Court COD performance, and examine its correlations with linear speed, change of direction speed, and vertical jump tests. Forty-two young badminton players (27 males and 15 females; age: 17.3 +/- 1.6 years, body height: 170.3 +/- 7.5 cm, body mass: 59.0 +/- 9.7 kg) were divided into two age groups (Under 17 years and under 19 years). Tests included: linear sprints (5, 10, and 20-m), bilateral/unilateral countermovement jumps, a hexagon test, traditional and modified 505 change of direction tests; and On-court COD. Results showed an excellent intraclass correlation coefficient score (0.90) and a very low coefficient of variation values (1.6%) for the On-Court COD test. Comparing age groups, under 19 players were significantly faster in linear sprints (i.e., 5, 15 and 20-m; small to moderate effect sizes) and in all change of direction tests (moderate to large effect sizes). Moreover, the On-Court COD test showed moderate to large (r=.513-.779) relationships with both acceleration and COD abilities in under 17 players, and with linear sprints, COD, and jump performances in under 19 players. These data indicate that the On-Court COD test is a useful and reliable means to assess COD performance in youth badminton players and it is associated with acceleration, sprint and jump performance.		[Fernandez-Fernandez, Jaime; Garcia-Tormo, Vicente; Garcia-Lopez, Juan] Univ Leon, Fac Phys Act & Sports Sci, Campus Vegazana S-N, Leon 24071, Spain; [Fernandez-Fernandez, Jaime; Garcia-Tormo, Vicente; Garcia-Lopez, Juan] Univ Leon, Human Movement & Sports Performance Anal, AMRED, Leon, Spain; [Fernandez-Fernandez, Jaime; Alvarez-Dacal, Francisco; Martinez-Maseda, Jonathan] Int Badminton Ctr Sports Technificat CITD, Oviedo, Spain; [Loturco, Irineu] NAR Nucleus High Performance Sport, BR-04753060 Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Luis Hernandez-Davo, Jose] Univ Isabel I Castilla, Fac Hlth Sci, Burgos, Spain; [Nakamura, Fabio Y.] Associate Grad Program Phys Educ UPE UFPB, Joao Pessoa, Paraiba, Brazil; [Nakamura, Fabio Y.] Univ Inst Maia ISMAI, Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev CIDESD, Maia, Portugal; [Fernandez-Fernandez, Jaime] Univ Leon, Fac Phys Act & Sports Sci, Campus Vegazana S-N, Leon 24071, Spain								19							Sport Sciences	WOS:000790902000013	36	Article; Article		
J	Colomar, Joshua; Corbi, Francisco; Baiget, Ernest								Inter-Limb Muscle Property Differences in Junior Tennis Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				82	1			5	15		10.2478/hukin-2022-0026			APR 26 2022	2022	The goal of this study was to investigate side-to-side differences and asymmetries regarding muscle characteristics in young tennis players. Thirty-four participants performed contractile property measurements (stiffness, tone, elasticity and time to relaxation) on the dominant and non-dominant extremities including nine muscle groups involved in the kinetic chain of main tennis strokes. Significant differences (p <= 0.05) and small-to-moderate effect sizes for greater stiffness and tone were found for the dominant biceps femoris (-11.1% and -5.6%; ES=0.53 and 0.54) and the non-dominant vastus medialis (5.4% and 3.2%; ES=-0.33 and -0.41), while greater tone was present in the non-dominant pectoralis major (4.0%; ES=-0.56). Time to relaxation was increased in the dominant biceps femoris (10.3%; ES=-0.58), the non-dominant pectoralis major (5.1%; ES=-0.56) and the gastrocnemius (9.1%; ES=-0.5). The non-dominant infraspinatus and dominant rectus abdominis showed greater elasticity than contralateral muscles (9.9% and -8.0%; ES=-0.58 and 0.6, respectively). These results reflect the existence of small-to-moderate differences when comparing side-to-side values of contractile characteristics in a small amount of the muscle groups tested. However, passive measurements of a relaxed muscle do not seem to fully reflect possible adaptation and changes derived from gameplay in young tennis players.		[Colomar, Joshua; Baiget, Ernest] Univ Barcelona UB, Natl Inst Phys Educ Catalonia INEFC, Avinguda Estadi 14, Barcelona 08038, Spain; [Colomar, Joshua] Univ Vic Cent Univ Catalonia, Sport Performance Anal Res Grp SPARG, Barcelona, Spain; [Colomar, Joshua] Univ Vic Cent Univ Catalonia, Sport & Phys Act Studies Ctr CEEAF, Vic, Spain; [Corbi, Francisco] Univ Lleida UdL, Natl Inst Phys Educ Catalonia INEFC, Lleida, Spain; [Colomar, Joshua] Univ Barcelona UB, Natl Inst Phys Educ Catalonia INEFC, Avinguda Estadi 14, Barcelona 08038, Spain								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:000790902000001	40	Article; Article		
J	Haller, Nils; Huebler, Erik; Stoeggl, Thomas; Simon, Perikles								Evidence-Based Recovery in Soccer - Low-Effort Approaches for Practitioners								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				82	1			75	99		10.2478/hukin-2022-0082			APR 26 2022	2022	Strategies to improve recovery are widely used among soccer players at both amateur and professional levels. Sometimes, however, recovery strategies are ineffective, improperly timed or even harmful to players. This highlights the need to educate practitioners and athletes about the scientific evidence of recovery strategies as well as to provide practical approaches to address this issue. Therefore, recent surveys among soccer athletes and practitioners were reviewed to identify the recovery modalities currently in use. Each strategy was then outlined with its rationale, its physiological mechanisms and the scientific evidence followed by practical approaches to implement the modality. For each intervention, practical and particularly low-effort strategies are provided to ensure that practitioners at all levels are able to implement them. We identified numerous interventions regularly used in soccer, i.e., sleep, rehydration, nutrition, psychological recovery, active recovery, foam-rolling/massage, stretching, cold-water immersion, and compression garments. Nutrition and rehydration were classified with the best evidence, while cold-water immersion, compression garments, foam-rolling/massage and sleep were rated with moderate evidence to enhance recovery. The remaining strategies (active recovery, psychological recovery, stretching) should be applied on an individual basis due to weak evidence observed. Finally, a guide is provided, helping practitioners to decide which intervention to implement. Here, practitioners should rely on the evidence, but also on their own experience and preference of the players.		[Haller, Nils; Huebler, Erik; Simon, Perikles] Johannes Gutenberg Univ Mainz, Dept Sports Med Dis Prevent & Rehabil, Albert Schweitzer Str 22, D-55128 Mainz, Germany; [Haller, Nils; Stoeggl, Thomas] Univ Salzburg, Dept Sport & Exercise Sci, Salzburg, Austria; [Stoeggl, Thomas] Red Bull Athlete Performance Ctr, Salzburg, Austria; [Haller, Nils] Johannes Gutenberg Univ Mainz, Dept Sports Med Dis Prevent & Rehabil, Albert Schweitzer Str 22, D-55128 Mainz, Germany								17							Sport Sciences	WOS:000790902000007	140	Article; Article		
J	de Mendonca, Goncalo Vilhena; Correia, Joana Margarida; Gomes, Miguel; Goncalves, Andre Dias; Vila-Cha, Carolina; Pezarat-Correia, Pedro								Neuromuscular Impact of Acute Hypertrophic Resistance Loading With and Without Blood-Flow Restriction								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				82	1			27	37		10.2478/hukin-2022-0028			APR 26 2022	2022	Exploring acute neuromuscular fatigue induced by different modalities of resistance exercise would help understand the adaptation subsequent to specific training programs. Therefore, we investigated the acute impact of high-intensity and low-intensity blood flow-restricted resistance exercise on the development of explosive torque throughout the torque-time curve. Seventeen healthy, young participants were included in a randomized, counterbalanced within-subjects design study, in which participants underwent two experimental conditions, separated by a 1-wk period. Low-intensity blood-flow restricted exercise and high-intensity resistance exercise were performed using dynamic elbow flexion at 20 and 75% of 1 repetition maximum, respectively. Maximal voluntary contraction (MVC) and the sequential rate of torque development (absolute and relative) were measured before and after exercise. Both protocols elicited a similar decrement in MVC (similar to 25%) and in the peak rate of torque development after exercise (45%). The absolute rate of torque development (0-50 and 50-100 ms) was also reduced (p<0.05) similarly between conditions. After normalizing torque values to MVC, this was only sustained for the rate of torque development 0-50ms (p<0.05). We found that both exercise protocols induced similar acute attenuation of the absolute rate of torque development up to the first 100 ms of MVC. We also demonstrated that the reduction in the rate of torque development between 50-100ms (in both protocols) was largely explained by an acute deficit in muscle strength post-exercise. Conversely, the impact of each protocol on the first 50ms of muscle torque did not depend on lower levels of muscle strength after exercise.		[de Mendonca, Goncalo Vilhena; Correia, Joana Margarida; Gomes, Miguel; Goncalves, Andre Dias; Pezarat-Correia, Pedro] Univ Lisbon, Neuromuscular Res Lab, Fac Motricidade Humana, Cruz Quebrada, Dafundo, Portugal; [de Mendonca, Goncalo Vilhena; Pezarat-Correia, Pedro] Univ Lisbon, CIPER, Fac Motricidade Humana, Estr Costa, Cruz Quebrada, Dafundo, Portugal; [Vila-Cha, Carolina] Polytech Inst Guarda, Av Dr Francisco Sa Carneiro, Guarda, Portugal; [Vila-Cha, Carolina] Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth & Human Dev CIDESD, Vila Real, Portugal; [de Mendonca, Goncalo Vilhena] Univ Lisbon, Neuromuscular Res Lab, Fac Motricidade Humana, Cruz Quebrada, Dafundo, Portugal; [de Mendonca, Goncalo Vilhena] Estr Costa, P-1495688 Lisbon, Portugal								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:000790902000003	50	Article; Article		
J	Wilczynski, Jacek; Cieslik, Monika; Maszczyk, Adam; Zwierzchowska, Anna								The Importance of Posture And Body Composition for the Stability and Selected Motor Abilities of Professional Handball Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				82	1			264	273		10.2478/hukin-2022-0025			APR 26 2022	2022	The aim of the research was to analyze body composition, body posture and postural stability of professional male handball players and to determine the differences between players with correct and incorrect body posture, considering power of the lower limbs and agility, speed, and change of direction deficit. The study comprised 16 professional handball players. Body composition analysis was performed using the method of electrical bioimpedance. Body posture was examined using the Diers formetric III 4D optoelectronic method. Postural stability was tested via the Biodex Balance System. Players performed the following fitness tests assessing lower limb muscle power (LP, HS, CMJ), linear speed (SLS 20 m), and COD speed (Zig-Zag test, COD deficit). Only 31.25% of players demonstrated body posture with correct physiological curvatures, while 68.75% showed changes in body asymmetry. The group with correct body posture performed better in SLS 20m than the group with incorrect posture, yet in the Zig-Zag agility test, the difference in the results was not significant and this affected the COD deficit, which was higher. The vast majority of participants demonstrated postural defects and incorrect physiological curvatures of the spine. The occurrence of scoliotic posture was also observed. The body deflection angles indicated that athletes' postural stability was good. However, it is worth noting that the majority demonstrated a tendency towards asymmetrical body deflections to the right or to the left, backwards direction. One-sided sports specialization leads to disturbances in the statics of the body, therefore, it becomes necessary to include postural re-education exercises in training.		[Wilczynski, Jacek; Cieslik, Monika] Jan Kochanowski Univ, Coll Med, Posturol Lab, Kielce, Poland; [Maszczyk, Adam; Zwierzchowska, Anna] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Inst Sport Sci, Mikolowska 72A, PL-40065 Katowice, Poland; [Zwierzchowska, Anna] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Inst Sport Sci, Mikolowska 72A, PL-40065 Katowice, Poland								13							Sport Sciences	WOS:000790902000024	40	Article; Article		
J	Pena-Gonzalez, Ivan; Javaloyes, Alejandro; Sarabia, Jose Manuel; Moya-Ramon, Manuel								Assessing the Sprint Force-Velocity Profile in International Football Players with Cerebral Palsy: Validity, Reliability and Sport Class' Profiles								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				82	1			253	262		10.2478/hukin-2022-0065			APR 26 2022	2022	This study assessed and described the Sprint Force-velocity (SFv) profile, and its validity and reliability in international cerebral palsy (CP) football players. Twenty international male CP football players (age: 26.9 +/- 7.4) performed a 30-m sprint, a vertical jump (CMJ), a change of direction (MAT), a dribbling and an intermittent endurance (Yo-YoIR1) test. The SFv profile and physical performance variables were shown according to the players' sport class with the estimation of the effect sizes between classes. The SFv showed high reliability (ICC=0.77 to 0.99; SEM=0.89 to 8.66%). Validity for the SFv was provided by its positive correlation with the players' sport class (r=0.53 to 0.75; p=.02 to <.01) and the rest of the physical performance tests (r=0.45 to 0.99; p=.04 to <.01). The RFmax was the main SFv profile variable that explained players' performance in the rest of the tests (beta=0.77 to 1.0; p<.05; R2=0.59 to 0.99). The SFv profile seems to be an efficient test to assess international CP football players' physical performance. This provides information about the players' individual sprint mechanical characteristics and their sprint strengths and weaknesses, allowing coaches and conditioning trainers to individualize their training interventions to optimize sprint performance.		[Pena-Gonzalez, Ivan; Javaloyes, Alejandro; Sarabia, Jose Manuel; Moya-Ramon, Manuel] Miguel Hernandez Univ Elche, Sports Res Ctr, Dept Sport Sci, Elche 03202, Spain; [Sarabia, Jose Manuel; Moya-Ramon, Manuel] ISABIAL Fdn, Inst Hlth & Biomed Res, Alicante 03010, Spain; [Moya-Ramon, Manuel] Miguel Hernandez Univ, Sport Res Ctr, Dept Sport Sci, Avda Univ S-N, Elche 03202, Spain								6							Sport Sciences	WOS:000790902000023	25	Article; Article		
J	Kubayi, Alliance								The Creation of Goal-Scoring Opportunities at the 2019 FIFA Women's World Cup								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				82	1			165	172		10.2478/hukin-2022-0043			APR 26 2022	2022	The aim of this study was to analyse how goal-scoring opportunities (GSOs) were created at the 2019 FIFA Women's World Cup. The sample consisted of 868 GSOs that led to a shot at the goal throughout all 52 games during the tournament. All games were downloaded from the InStat platform. Descriptive statistics, chi-square of association and binary logistic regression analysis were used to analyse the data. Of the 868 GSOs, 81 (9.1%) resulted in goals. A significant association was observed between GSOs and the type of attack (chi(2)=6.38, p=0.01, V=0.09), with more goals being scored from a counter-attack (12.7%) than an organised attack (7.5%). Counter-attacks recorded a higher odds ratio in univariate analysis (OR=0.56; 95%CI:0.35-0.88; p=0.01) than in multivariate analysis (OR=0.46; 95%CI:0.28-0.76; p=0.002). The multivariate analysis further indicated a significant probability of scoring when ball possession started in the middle third of the field (OR=0.19; 95%CI:0.44-0.88; p= 0.01). The current study has practical implications for soccer coaches to develop and implement training sessions to improve goal-scoring chances of women's teams at international competitions.		[Kubayi, Alliance] Tshwane Univ Technol, Fac Sci, Dept Sport Rehabil & Dent Sci, Pretoria, South Africa; [Kubayi, Alliance] Tshwane Univ Technol, Fac Sci, Dept Sport Rehabil & Dent Sci, Pretoria, South Africa								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:000790902000014	21	Article; Article		
J	Parnow, Abdolhossein; Amani-Shalamzari, Sadegh; Mohr, Magni								The Repeated Curve Sprint Test Appears to be an Appropriate Tool for Estimating Anaerobic Fitness in Young Trained Male Futsal Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				82	1			181	189		10.2478/hukin-2022-0044			APR 26 2022	2022	This study aimed to determine the magnitude of correlation between the repeated curve sprint test (RCST), the running-based anaerobic sprint test (RAST) and the Wingate anaerobic test (WAnT) in elite male futsal players to determine whether the field test can be a futsal-specific alternative assessment tool compared to the other tests. Fifteen trained futsal players (20 +/- 3 yrs) performed the RCST, RAST and WAnT in a crossover design over three weeks. Peak power (PP), average power (AP) and the fatigue index (FI) were obtained from the tests. Finger-prick blood-lactate measurements were performed before and after the tests, and heart rate loading was recorded. To assess the magnitude and direction of the relationship between variables the Pearson's correlation coefficient (r) was calculated. In respect of AP, there was a significant correlation between the RCST and both the WAnT (r=0.63, p=0.012) and the RAST (r=0.67, p=0.006). In respect of PP, the RCST only correlated with the RAST (r=0.71, p=0.003). In respect of the FI, the RCST did not correlate with either the RAST or the WAnT (p>0.05). Post-test heart rate values in the RCST correlated with those in both the WAnT (r=0.88, p=0.001) and the RAST (r=0.77, p=0.001). Also, post-test blood-lactate levels in the RCST correlated with those in both the RAST (r=0.58, p=0.025) and the WAnT (r=0.54, p=0.039). In conclusion, the RCST can be a valid and practical field test for measuring anaerobic fitness in competitive futsal players.		[Parnow, Abdolhossein] Razi Univ, Fac Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Dept Sports Sci, Kermanshah, Iran; [Amani-Shalamzari, Sadegh] Kharazmi Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Exercise Physiol, Tehran, Iran; [Mohr, Magni] Univ Southern Denmark, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Sports Sci & Clin Biomech, SDU Sport & Hlth Sci Cluster SHSC, Odense, Denmark; [Mohr, Magni] Univ Faroe Isl, Fac Hlth, Ctr Hlth Sci, Vestarabryggja 15,4th Floor, Torshavn, Faroe Islands, Denmark; [Mohr, Magni] Univ Faroe Isl, Fac Hlth, Ctr Hlth Sci, Vestarabryggja 15,4th Floor, Torshavn, Faroe Islands, Denmark								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:000790902000016	25	Article; Article		
J	Hall, Barbara; Sikora, Marcin; Jonas, Dominik; Matthews, Eleanor; Zebrowska, Aleksandra								Handcycling Training in Men with Spinal Cord Injury Increases Tolerance to High Intensity Exercise								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				82	1			233	241		10.2478/hukin-2022-0080			APR 26 2022	2022	Individuals with spinal cord injury are characterised by reduced physical capacity as compared to able-bodied persons, and are at risk of developing cardiovascular disease. The study aimed to evaluate the differences in physiological responses to an exercise test in handcycling-trained vs. able-bodied-trained and non-trained men. Eight males with spinal cord injury who were trained in handcycling, eighteen able-bodied males who were trained in powerlifting, and fourteen physically active non-athletes performed a graded arm crank ergometer test. The following physiological indices were measured before and during the test: heart rate, oxygen uptake, and blood lactate concentrations. Aerobic capacity was significantly higher in athletes with spinal cord injury compared to able-bodied athletes (p<0.01) and the control group (p<0.01). The heart rate achieved by handcycling-trained athletes was significantly lower as compared to powerlifters (p<0.01), however, the oxygen pulse was significantly higher (p<0.05). Handcycling-trained athletes reached significantly higher peak power (P-max) during the graded arm exercise in comparison with powerlifters, and significantly higher post exercise blood lactate concentration (p<0.05). The lactate threshold was observed at a significantly higher P in individuals with spinal cord injury compared to able-bodied-trained (p<0.05) and non-trained men (p<0.001). Athletes with spinal cord injury were found to have excellent aerobic capacity and better physiological adaptation to the maximal graded exercise test as compared to able-bodied-trained men. These findings emphasize the importance of regular physical exercise and its potential therapeutic role in the prevention of cardiovascular disease in patients with spinal cord injury.		[Hall, Barbara; Matthews, Eleanor] Univ Manchester, Inst Biotechnol, Sch Biol Sci, Princess St, Manchester M13 9PL, Lancs, England; [Sikora, Marcin; Zebrowska, Aleksandra] Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Inst Sport Sci, Katowice, Poland; [Jonas, Dominik] Act Therapy, Szczawno Zdroj, Poland; [Hall, Barbara] Univ Manchester, Inst Biotechnol, Sch Biol Sci, Princess St, Manchester M13 9PL, Lancs, England								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:000790902000021	36	Article; Article		
J	Born, Dennis-Peter; Romann, Michael; Stoeggl, Thomas								Start Fast, Swim Faster, Turn Fastest: Section Analyses and Normative Data for Individual Medley								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				21	2			233	244		10.52082/jssm.2022.233			JUN 2022	2022	The aims of the study were to provide benchmarks and normative data for 100 m, 200 m, and 400 m short-course individual medley (IM) races, investigate differences between the various swimming strokes and turns involved in IM, and quantify the effect and contribution of various race sections on swimming performance. All IM races (n = 320) at the 2019 European Short-Course Swimming Championships were video monitored and digitized with interrater reliability described by a mean infra-class correlation coefficient of 0.968. Normative data were provided for the eight finalists of each event (FINA points = 886 +/- 37) and the eight slowest swimmers from each event (FINA points = 688 +/- 53). Contribution and effects of race sections on swimming performance were investigated using stepwise regression analysis based on all races of each event. Regression analysis explained 97-100% of total variance in race time and revealed turn time (beta >= 0.53) as distinguishing factor in short-course IM races in addition to swim velocity (beta >= -0.28). Start time only affected 100 m (beta >= 0.14) and 200 m (beta >= 0.04) events. Fastest turn times were found for the butterfly/backstroke turn. Breaststroke showed slowest swim velocities and no difference between fastest and slowest 100 m IM swimmers. Therefore, breaststroke may provide largest potential for future development in IM race times. Correlation analyses revealed that distance per stroke (beta >= -0.39, P < 0.05) rather than stroke rate (r <= -0.18, P > 0.05) is a performance indicator and may be used by coaches and performance analysts to evaluate stroke mechanics in male IM swimmers despite its more complex assessment. Performance analysts, coaches, and swimmers may use the present normative data to establish minimal and maximal requirements for European Championship participation and to create specific drills in practice.		[Born, Dennis-Peter] Swiss Swimming Federat, Sect High Performance Sports, Bern, Switzerland; [Born, Dennis-Peter; Romann, Michael] Swiss Fed Inst Sport Magglingen, Dept Elite Sport, Magglingen, Switzerland; [Stoeggl, Thomas] Univ Salzburg, Dept Sport & Exercise Sci, Salzburg, Austria; [Stoeggl, Thomas] Red Bull Athlete Performance Ctr, Salzburg, Austria; [Born, Dennis-Peter] Swiss Swimming Federat, Sect High Performance Sports, Bern, Switzerland; [Born, Dennis-Peter] Swiss Fed Inst Sport Magglingen, Dept Elite Sport, Magglingen, Switzerland								15							Sport Sciences	WOS:000792116000001	33	Article; Article		
J	Garcia, Liniker; Asano, Ricardo Yukio; Silveira, Rodrigo; Hackney, Anthony C.; Takito, Monica Y.; Kilpatrick, Marcus W.; Prado, Raul Cosme Ramos								Psychophysiological Responses to Self-Selected Exercise Intensity Over the Menstrual Cycle: A Randomized Crossover Phase Trial								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	3			646	654		10.1080/02701367.2022.2036316			JUL 3 2023	2023	Purpose: This study investigated the psychophysiological responses during self-selected exercise intensity over the course of the menstrual cycle (MC). Methods: Seventeen healthy women with regular MCs completed three randomized treadmill bouts of 30 min of self-selected exercise intensity during menstruation, mid-follicular, and late luteal phases. Anxiety, menstrual distress (i.e., pain, behavior change, autonomic reaction, fluid retention, and negative affect) and profile of mood (i.e., tension, depression, and anger) were measured before exercise. Arousal, heart rate (HR), motivation, rating of perceived exertion and affective valence were measured before, during and after each exercise session. Results: Anger, anxiety, behavior change, pain, and negative affect were significantly greater (p < .05) during menstruation compared to the mid-follicular phase, whereas fluid retention, anger, behavior change, and autonomic reaction were greater (p < .05) during the late luteal phase compared with the mid-follicular phase. Participants felt more negative affective valence and less motivation to start exercise during menstruation compared with other MC phases. Average treadmill speed (5.8 +/- 1.1 vs 6.0 +/- 0.7 vs 5.9 +/- 0.7 km/h(-1), p = .36) and %HRmax (74.9 +/- 3.2 vs 77.8 +/- 5.4 vs 77.4 +/- 7.1%, p = .40) did not differ between menstruation, mid-follicular, and late luteal phases. Also, noteworthy is that participants self-selected an intensity that exceeded the minimum levels recommended for health and cardiorespiratory fitness promotion (64-70% HRmax). Conclusions: Results of this study indicate that psychophysiological responses are negatively impacted mainly during menstruation and the late luteal phase of the MC. These findings may be helpful for professionals who work to promote the initiation and maintenance of exercise in women.		[Garcia, Liniker] Metropolitanas Unidas Fac FMU, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Garcia, Liniker; Asano, Ricardo Yukio; Silveira, Rodrigo; Takito, Monica Y.; Prado, Raul Cosme Ramos] Univ Sao Paulo, Av Prof Mello Moraes,65 Cidade Univ, BR-05508030 Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Hackney, Anthony C.] Univ North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC 27515 USA; [Kilpatrick, Marcus W.] Univ S Florida, Tampa, FL 33620 USA; [Prado, Raul Cosme Ramos] Univ Sao Paulo, Av Prof Mello Moraes,65 Cidade Univ, BR-05508030 Sao Paulo, Brazil								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000787212700001	53	Article; Article		
J	Barkoukis, Vassilis; Harris, Peter R.; Rowe, Richard; Lazuras, Lambros								Self-Affirmation and Image/Performance Enhancing Drug Use in Recreational Exercise								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	3			698	706		10.1080/02701367.2022.2046253			JUL 3 2023	2023	Objectives: The use of image and performance enhancement drugs (IPEDs) in recreational sport represents an emerging public health and societal problem. The present study investigated whether self-affirmation changed exercisers' intentions to use IPEDs, via the effects of mental construal and message acceptance. Method: Sixty-eight exercisers who self-reported IPEDs use participated in the study and were randomly assigned to either a self-affirmation or a control group. All participants read a health-related message about the 10 consequences of IPEDs and subsequently completed a survey measuring message acceptance, mental construal, doping intentions and IPEDs-related social cognitive variables. Results: There were no significant differences between the self-affirmed and the control groups. Hierarchical linear regression analysis further showed that message acceptance, subjective norms, and situational temptation were significantly associated with intentions to use IPEDs. Conclusion: Our findings raise the possibility that for recreational exercisers IPED's use is seen mostly as a health-related matter than a socio-moral transgression.		[Barkoukis, Vassilis] Aristotle Univ Thessaloniki, Thessaloniki, Greece; [Harris, Peter R.] Univ Sussex, Brighton, E Sussex, England; [Rowe, Richard] Univ Sheffield, Sheffield, S Yorkshire, England; [Lazuras, Lambros] Sheffield Hallam Univ, Sheffield, S Yorkshire, England; [Barkoukis, Vassilis] Aristotle Univ Thessaloniki, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Thessaloniki 54124, Greece								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000785887500001	67	Article; Article		
J	Liardi, Vince; Gammage, Kim; Deck, Sarah; Hall, Craig								Exercise Identity and Its Relation to Self-Presentation Concerns in Males and Females								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	3			707	714		10.1080/02701367.2022.2047151			JUL 3 2023	2023	Purpose: It has been determined that exercise identity is a key component of the self-concept and is a strong determinant of exercise behaviors. The purpose of the present study was to examine exercise identity's relationship with three key self-presentational variables: self-presentational efficacy, social physique anxiety, and impression motivation. Methods: We looked at how exercise identity contributed uniquely to predicting exercise behavior over and above these self-presentational concerns for both males 10 (n = 140) and females (n = 234) recruited from two university communities. Participant's age ranged from 18-68 years, the majority identified as students, and as Caucasian. Results: The analyses demonstrated that exercise identity was positively correlated with self-presentational efficacy and unrelated to social physique anxiety in both genders. Further analyses revealed that exercise identity contributes a significant amount of variance toward exercise behavior over and above what is accounted for by self-presentational efficacy, social physique anxiety, and impression motivation. Lastly, exercise identity did not moderate the social physique anxiety-exercise relationship in either gender. Conclusion: These findings advance our knowledge of exercise identity and its relationship with various important constructs has been determined that exercise identity is a key component of the self-concept and is a strong determinant of exercise behaviors.		[Liardi, Vince; Deck, Sarah; Hall, Craig] Western Univ, 1151 Richmond St, London, ON N6A 3K7, Canada; [Gammage, Kim] Brock Univ, St Catharines, ON, Canada; [Deck, Sarah] Univ Alberta, Edmonton, AB, Canada; [Deck, Sarah] Western Univ, 1151 Richmond St, London, ON N6A 3K7, Canada								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000785977400001	43	Article; Article		
J	Oerencik, Merlin; Schmid, Michael J.; Schmid, Juerg; Conzelmann, Achim; de Subijana, Cristina Lopez								The differentiation of single and dual career athletes falls short: A person-oriented approach to characterize typical objective life situations of elite athletes								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	3			717	727	17479541221090941	10.1177/17479541221090941			JUN 2023	2023	Research concerning athletic career development in high-performance sport typically uses demographic data, sport characteristics or pursuing a dual career (i.e. having an educational or vocational career simultaneous to the athletic career) to identify developmental processes. In defiance of these attempts, considerable heterogeneity remains within these subgroups of the elite athlete population. In line with the person-oriented approach, the objective of this study was to develop a comprehensive typology of athletes with similar objective life situations by considering both sport-related as well as non-sport related aspects. To this end, data were collected about athletic performance level, weekly amount of working time (i.e. sport-related activities, education, and vocation), and financial information (i.e. gross annual income and income generated from sport). Based on a sample of 733 elite athletes, a cluster analysis was performed to divide the sample into groups of similar patterns on the aforementioned factors. Five different athlete patterns were found: (1) working dual career athletes, (2) high-income professional athletes, (3) medium-income professional athletes, (4) family-supported athletes, and (5) student dual career athletes. These findings support the dual career literature of separating dual career (Cluster 1 and Cluster 5) from single career athletes, which, in turn, should also not be regarded as a single population, but further divided (Cluster 2, Cluster 3, and Cluster 4). This typology may aid federations and practitioners within athletic career development in providing individual assistance for elite athletes.		[de Subijana, Cristina Lopez] Univ Politecn Madrid, Madrid, Spain; [Oerencik, Merlin; Schmid, Michael J.; Schmid, Juerg; Conzelmann, Achim] Univ Bern, Bern, Switzerland; [Oerencik, Merlin] Univ Bern, Inst Sport Sci, CH-3012 Bern, Switzerland								14							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000787803000001	61	Article; Article		
J	van Bergen, Nikki Geerte; Soekarjo, Kasper; Van der Kamp, John; Orth, Dominic								Reliability and Validity of Functional Grip Strength Measures Across Holds and Body Positions in Climbers: Associations With Skill and Climbing Performance								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	3			627	637		10.1080/02701367.2022.2035662			JUL 3 2023	2023	Purpose: In climbing, exceptional levels of fingertip strength across different holds and body positions are considered essential for performance. There is no commonly agreed upon way to measure such "grip strength variability." Furthermore, the accurate and reliable monitoring of strength is necessary to achieve safe, progressive improvement in strength. Therefore, this study aimed to develop reliability and criterion validity for assessment of grip strength across multiple holds and body positions. Methods: Twenty-two advanced toelite climbers (age = 28.5 +/- 8.6 years) performed maximal voluntary isometric contractions on two occasions (for test-retest reliability). Conditions included two hold types (edge and sloper) tested in two postures (elbow flexion [90 degrees] and self-preferred). Climbing performance was determined on two "difficulty" routes (difficulty increases with each hold): one route composed of only edges and another only of slopers. Results: Test-retest reliability was high (ICC between 0.94-0.99). Significant positive correlations were observed for the forces produced on the sloper test and climbing distance on the sloper route (r = 0.512,p < .05), and for the forces produced on the edge test and climbing distance on the edge route (rho = 0.579, p < .01). Conclusion: These findings support reliability and validity of the method used to measure grip strength variability with different holds and body positions and suggest that improving strength across different grasping types supports adaptive climbing performance.		[van Bergen, Nikki Geerte; Soekarjo, Kasper; Van der Kamp, John; Orth, Dominic] Vrije Univ Amsterdam, Van Boechorststr 7, NL-1081 BT Amsterdam, Netherlands; [van Bergen, Nikki Geerte; Van der Kamp, John] Amsterdam Movement Sci, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Orth, Dominic] Swinburne Univ Technol, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [van Bergen, Nikki Geerte] Vrije Univ Amsterdam, Van Boechorststr 7, NL-1081 BT Amsterdam, Netherlands								11							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000785884700001	50	Article; Article		
J	Gonzalez-Garcia, Jaime; Aguilar-Navarro, Millan; Giraldez-Costas, Veronica; Romero-Moraleda, Blanca								Time Course of Jump Recovery and Performance After Velocity-Based Priming and Concurrent Caffeine Intake								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	3			655	667		10.1080/02701367.2022.2041162			JUL 3 2023	2023	Purpose: Morning priming exercise and caffeine intake have been previously suggested as an effective strategy to increase within-day performance and readiness. However, the concurrent effect of both strategies is unknown. The present research aimed to map the within-day time course of recovery and performance of countermovement jump (CMJ) outcomes, kinetics, and strategy and readiness after priming alone and in combination with caffeine. Methods: Eleven participants performed a control, a priming exercise (Priming) and a priming with concurrent caffeine intake (PrimingCaf) in a double-blind randomized, crossover design. CMJ metrics were assessed before, post, and 2 h, 4 h, and 6 h after each condition while readiness was assessed at 6 h. Results: Perceived physical, mental performance capability and activation balance were higher at 6 h after Priming and PrimingCaf conditions. Immediate reductions in jump height (5.45 to 6.25%; p < .046), concentric peak velocity (2.40 to 2.59%; p < .041) and reactive strength index-modified (RSImod) (9.06 to 9.23% p < .051) after Priming and PrimingCaf were observed, being recovered at 2 h (p > .99). Concentric impulse was restored in PrimingCaf (p > .754; d = -0.03 to-0.08) despite lower concentric mean force/BM (p < .662; d = -0.18 to -0.26) as concentric duration was increased (p > .513; d = 0.15 to 0.21). Individual analysis revealed that some participants benefit from both strategies as they showed increases in jump height over the smallest worthwhile change while others did not. Conclusions: Psychological readiness was increased after both priming conditions at 6 h; however, it seems necessary to consider individual changes to achieve the positive effects of the priming or the priming in combination with caffeine on jumping outcomes.		[Gonzalez-Garcia, Jaime; Giraldez-Costas, Veronica] Camilo Jose Cela Univ, Madrid, Villanueva De L, Spain; [Aguilar-Navarro, Millan] Univ Francisco Vitoria, Madrid, Spain; [Romero-Moraleda, Blanca] Autonomous Univ Madrid, Madrid, Spain; [Gonzalez-Garcia, Jaime] Camilo Jose Cela Univ, Hlth Sci Fac, Calle Castillo Alarcon 49, Madrid 28692, Villanueva De L, Spain								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000784081900001	50	Article; Article		
J	Vasquez-Bonilla, Aldo A.; Brazo-Sayavera, Javier; Timon, Rafael; Olcina, Guillermo								Monitoring Muscle Oxygen Asymmetry as a Strategy to Prevent Injuries in Footballers								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	3			609	617		10.1080/02701367.2022.2026865			JUL 3 2023	2023	Purpose: It has been hypothesized that sports injury risk is explained by muscle metabolism. The objective was to evaluate the muscle oxygen saturation slopes (Delta SmO2 slopes) and muscle oxygenation asymmetry (MO(2)Asy) at rest and to study their associations with injuries during the pre-season. Methods: A total of 16 male and 10 female footballers participated in this study. Injuries were diagnosed and classified by level of severity during the pre-season. The workload was also evaluated using the rate of perceived exertion x training time, from which the accumulated loads. The SmO2 was measured at rest in the gastrocnemius muscle using the arterial occlusion method in the dominant and non-dominant legs. The repeated measures ANOVA, relative risk, and binary logistic regression were applied to assess the probability of injury with SmO2 and workload. Results: Higher MO(2)Asy and Delta SmO2 Slope 2 were found among footballer who suffered high-severity injuries and those who presented no injuries. In addition, an MO(2)Asy greater than 15% and an increase in accumulated load were variables that explained a greater probability of injury. Conclusion: This study presents the new concept of muscle oxygenation asymmetry in sports science and its possible application in injury prevention through the measurement of SmO2 at rest.		[Vasquez-Bonilla, Aldo A.; Timon, Rafael; Olcina, Guillermo] Univ Extremadura, Caceres 10003, Spain; [Brazo-Sayavera, Javier] Univ Republica, Montevideo, Uruguay; [Brazo-Sayavera, Javier] Univ Pablo de Olavide, Seville, Spain; [Vasquez-Bonilla, Aldo A.] Univ Extremadura, Caceres 10003, Spain								8							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000784663700001	54	Article; Article		
J	Miller, Jonathan D.; Fry, Andrew C.; Ciccone, Anthony B.; Poggio, John								Analysis of Rate of Force Development as a Vertical Jump Height Predictor								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	3			638	645		10.1080/02701367.2022.2036315			JUL 3 2023	2023	Purpose: Many researchers and coaches hold that the ability to generate force rapidly is an important factor in athletic performance. This concept is often studied by analyzing the rate of ground reaction force development (RFD) during vertical jumps; however, many such studies disagree on whether estimates of RFD are true predictors of vertical jump height, have limited sample sizes, and have not employed multiple regression analysis. Therefore, the purpose of the study was to assess the utility of RFD as a predictor of vertical jump height. Methods: Forward sequential multiple regression models were performed using kinematic, kinetic, and demographic variables from a database of maximal countermovement vertical jumps collected via motion capture system from 2,258 NCAA Division I athletes. Results: Peak RFD was a significant bivariate predictor of vertical jump height (r = 0.408, p < .001). However, when other variables were included in the prediction model the partial variance in vertical jump height accounted for by peak RFD was nearly eliminated (r = -0.051, beta = -0.051), but sex (r = 0.246, beta = 0.94) and peak ground reaction force (r = 0.503, beta = 1.109) emerged as predictors of partial variance in jump height. Furthermore, mediation analysis revealed the direct effect of peak RFD on vertical jump height was only 0.004. Conclusions: Multiple regression analysis enabled by a large sample size suggests Peak RFD may not be uniquely useful as a predictor of vertical jump height during maximal countermovement jumps.		[Miller, Jonathan D.; Fry, Andrew C.; Poggio, John] Univ Kansas, Lawrence, KS 66045 USA; [Ciccone, Anthony B.] Utah Valley Univ, Coll Sci, Orem, UT USA; [Miller, Jonathan D.] Univ Kansas, Dept Pharmaceut Chem, 3020 Becker Dr,Room 152, Lawrence, KS 66045 USA								13							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000784056900001	26	Article; Article		
J	Fidalgo, Andressa; Joi, Samela; Lattari, Eduardo; de Oliveira, Bruno; Pilon, Rui; Farinatti, Paulo; Monteiro, Walace								Influence of HIIRT With Fixed and Self-Selected Recovery Intervals on Physiological, Affective, and Enjoyment Responses								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	3			678	686	2042463	10.1080/02701367.2022.2042463			JUL 3 2023	2023	Purpose: Recovery-interval strategies may influence physiological and psychological responses during highintensity interval resistance training (HIIRT). This study compared the intensity, performance, and psychological outcomes during all-out effort HIIRT performed with fixed (FRI) and self-selected (SSRI) recovery intervals. Methods: Sixteen trained males (27.2 +/- 4.1 years; 84.5 +/- 8.9 kg; 55.8 +/- 7.1 mL.kg-1.min-1) performed HIIRT bouts interspersed with FRI (10 s) and SSRI (15.3 +/- 7.9 s). Results: Relative heart rate (%HRmax) and oxygen uptake (%VO2Peak), number of repetitions, and psychological responses (affection: Feeling ScaleFS; Felt Arousal ScaleFAS; enjoyment: Physical Activity Enjoyment ScalePACES) were assessed. FRI and SSRI elicited similar relative average intensity (p > .05) (%HRmax: 88.1 +/- 3.5% vs. 87.6 +/- 3.0%; %VO2Peak: 55.3 +/- 7.4% vs. 54.1 +/- 8.1%, respectively). The number of repetitions similarly decreased in SSRI and FRI from rounds 1 to 4 (similar to 15%; p < .006), with no difference of total volume across conditions (FRI: 358.6 +/- 32 reps vs. SSRI:357.5 +/- 28.2; p = .89). In each round, no difference between FRI and SSRI (p > .05) was found for FS (3- to 3.5 vs. 2- to 4, respectively) or FAS (2- to 4 vs. 2- to 4, respectively), while PACES was lower in FRI than SSRI (102.8 +/- 15.8 vs. 109.2 +/- 13.2; p = .04). Conclusion: In conclusion, relative intensity, total repetitions, and affective perception were not influenced by the strategy of recovery intervals. On the other hand, overall enjoyment was favored in SSRI vs. FRI.		[Fidalgo, Andressa; de Oliveira, Bruno; Pilon, Rui; Farinatti, Paulo; Monteiro, Walace] Univ Estado Rio De Janeiro, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil; [Joi, Samela; Lattari, Eduardo; Monteiro, Walace] Univ Salgado de Oliveira, Sao Goncalo, RJ, Brazil; [de Oliveira, Bruno] Rural Fed Univ Rio de Janeiro, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil; [Monteiro, Walace] Inst Phys Educ & Sports, Lab Phys Act & Hlth Promot LABSAU, Rua Sao Francisco Xavier 524,Sala 8121F, BR-20550900 Rio De Janeiro, RJ, Brazil								9							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000784072900001	45	Article; Article		
J	Pinto, Brendan L.; Callaghan, Jack P.								Effects of weighing phase duration on vertical force-time analyses and repeatability								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2022.2064763				2022	Force plate analyses of various activities sometimes require the average (WPav) and standard deviation (WPsd) of force across the Weighing Phase (i.e., quiet period) to calculate kinetic, temporal and kinematic metrics. Yet, the influence of weighing phase duration on these analyses has been scarcely investigated. This study investigated the effects of weighing phase duration on the agreement between vertical force-time variables and the repeatability of WPav and WPsd. Durations of 0.5, 1.0 and 1.5 s were compared to 2.0 s. Limits of agreement (LOA) for system weight, onset threshold, onset time, net impulse, take-off velocity and take-off displacement were calculated for 137 counter-movement, squat and single leg jumps. Repeatability coefficients for WPav and WPsd estimated the consistency between repeated trials. Shorter weighing phase durations produced small differences in WPav (LOA < +/- 0.25%), which accumulated during integration, affecting net impulse, take-off velocity (LOA +/- 2%) and take-off displacement (LOA +/- 23%). Differences were substantial using 5xWPsd as the onset threshold (LOA approximately +/- 25% to +/- 72%), consequently influencing onset time (LOA approximately +/- 6% to +/- 18%). WPav repeatability was high but the within-trial differences could augment with integration, requiring weighing phases longer than 2 s. WPsd had poor repeatability and its use requires further investigation.		[Pinto, Brendan L.; Callaghan, Jack P.] Univ Waterloo, Dept Kinesiol & Hlth Sci, Waterloo, ON, Canada; [Callaghan, Jack P.] Univ Waterloo, Dept Kinesiol & Hlth Sci, Waterloo, ON, Canada								7							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000784711600001	27	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Garcia-Aliaga, Abraham; Marquina Nieto, Moises; Coteron, Javier; Rodriguez-Gonzalez, Asier; Gil Ares, Javier; Refoyo Roman, Ignacio								A Longitudinal Study on the Evolution of the Four Main Football Leagues Using Artificial Intelligence: Analysis of the Differences in English Premier League Teams								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	2			529	537		10.1080/02701367.2021.2019661			APR 3 2023	2023	Purpose: The aim of this study was to analyze the evolution of the four most important leagues and to identify if there are differences between the English Premier League and the rest of the European leagues. Methods: Each team was characterized according to a set of 52 variables including offensive, defensive, and buildup 10 variables that were computed from OPTA's on-ball event records of the matches for main national leagues between the 2014 and 2018 seasons. To test the evolution of leagues, the t-SNE dimensionality reduction technique was used. To better understand the differences between leagues and teams, the most discriminating variables were obtained as a set of rules discovered by RIPPER, a machine learning algorithm. Results: The evolution of playing styles has meant that teams in the major European leagues seem to 15 be approaching homogeneity of technical-tactical behavior. Despite this, a distinction can be seen between the English teams concerning the rest of the teams in the other leagues, determined by fewer free kicks, fewer long passes but more vertical, more errors in ball control but greater success in dribbling. Conclusions: These results provide important knowledge and practical applications because of the study of the different variables and performance indicators among the best football championships		[Garcia-Aliaga, Abraham; Marquina Nieto, Moises; Coteron, Javier; Gil Ares, Javier; Refoyo Roman, Ignacio] Univ Politecn Madrid, Madrid, Spain; [Rodriguez-Gonzalez, Asier] Olocip, Madrid, Spain; [Coteron, Javier] Univ Politecn Madrid, Fac Ciencias Actividad Fis & Deporte INEF, Dept Social Sci Appl Phys Act Sport & Leisure, Madrid 28040, Spain								11							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000786512700001	61	Article; Article		
J	Kang, Nyeonju								Increased Cerebellar Gray Matter Volume in Athletes: A Voxel-Wise Coordinate-Based Meta-Analysis								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	3			597	608		10.1080/02701367.2022.2026285			JUL 3 2023	2023	Purpose: The purpose of this systematic review and meta-analysis study was to investigate distinct brain structural characteristics in athletes as compared with those in non-athletes by quantifying regional gray matter (GM) volume changes using voxel-based morphometry analysis based on a whole-brain approach. Methods: The systematic literature search was conducted from November 1, 2020 to October 18, 2021 via the two search engines including the PubMed and Web of Science. We included 13 studies that reported GM volume data in 229 athletes as compared 219 non-athletes based on the whole-brain analysis with specific three-dimensional coordinates in a standard stereotactic space. Thus, we performed a coordinate-based meta-analysis using the seed-based d mapping via permutation of subject images methods. Result: The coordinate-based meta-analysis reported that the athletes significantly reveal greater regional GM volume across right cerebellar lobules IV-V and Brodmann area 37 regions than those in the non-athletes with minimal levels of heterogeneity and publication bias between the included studies. The subgroup analyses show that greater GM volume for athletes in closed-skill sports appeared across the right cerebellar hemispheric lobules VIII and the right cingulum than those for non-athletes. Conclusion: These cumulative findings from multiple brain imaging studies suggest potential brain plasticity evidence in the athletes who experienced extensive motor training.		[Kang, Nyeonju] Incheon Natl Univ, Incheon, South Korea; [Kang, Nyeonju] Incheon Natl Univ, Div Sport Sci, Neuromech Rehabil Res Lab, 119 Acad Ro, Incheon 22012, South Korea								9							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000784667200001	86	Article; Article		
J	Garner, Paul; Roberts, William M.; Baker, Colin; Cote, Jean								Characteristics of a person-centred coaching approach								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	4			722	733	17479541221077052	10.1177/17479541221077052			AUG 2022	2022	Within this paper we propose a need to better understand what is meant by a person-centred approach to coaching and in particular, to consider the intention that drives coach behaviours. Much of the extant coaching literature focuses on pedagogical models and theories of learning; without detracting from this important body of work, we suggest that a holistic approach requires a greater focus on coaches' inter- and intra- personal knowledge. In this paper, video stimulated recall was used to guide interviews with Alpine ski coaches, to explore their thought processes and intentions behind person-centred delivery. The findings suggest these coaches adopted other-centred intentions that are facilitated by an accurate self-assessment, a big picture perspective and a willingness to learn. Consequently, the concept of humility is proposed as a guiding principle for person-centred coaching, and a conceptual model (POWA) is presented as a solution to the challenges we identify throughout the paper.		[Garner, Paul; Roberts, William M.; Baker, Colin] Univ Gloucestershire, Sch Sport & Exercise, Oxstalls Campus, Gloucester, England; [Roberts, William M.] Univ Waikato, Sch Hlth, Waikato, New Zealand; [Cote, Jean] Queens Univ, Sch Kinesiol & Hlth Studies, Fac Educ, Kingston, ON, Canada; [Garner, Paul] Univ Gloucestershire, Sch Sport & Exercise, Oxstalls Campus, Gloucester, England								11							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000784234500001	76	Article; Article		
J	Musa, Vinicius da Silva; Menezes, Rafael Pombo								Coaches' opinions about teaching defensive skills for youth handball teams								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	5			1009	1017	17479541221091092	10.1177/17479541221091092			OCT 2022	2022	Purpose It can be observed that coaching in youth sports may be based on technique development, while it is inspired by high-performance sports. As it is observed a lack of research that addressed the coaching process with youth handball teams in the Brazilian context, this study aimed to analyze what is expected for the defensive phase and how it is taught. Methods We interviewed 22 handball coaches from the U-12, U-14, U-16, and U-18 teams addressing the teaching of defensive skills when facing different offensive systems and the approaches used in the training sessions. The interviews were analyzed using the Collective Subject Discourse (CSD) method. Results and discussion The coaches' discourses revealed an increasing expectation due to players' experience, but with stimulation of high-level sport since the youngest teams. The discourses also emphasized the use of traditional approaches and game-based approaches to apply the learned skill in the game context, independently of the age group. It was noted that the expectations of the coaches about players' technical-tactical development and the approaches are controversial, especially when comparing the specific skills with the use of the traditional approach in the younger teams (U-12 and U-14 teams). It is suggested that more attention must be paid when choosing the defensive skills to be taught for youth players, and the chosen teaching approaches must promote a reflexive environment to learners.		[Musa, Vinicius da Silva; Menezes, Rafael Pombo] Univ Sao Paulo, Sch Phys Educ & Sport Ribeirao Preto, Ave Bandeirantes,3900 Monte Alegre, BR-14040907 Ribeirao Preto, SP, Brazil; [Menezes, Rafael Pombo] Univ Sao Paulo, Sch Phys Educ & Sport Ribeirao Preto, Ave Bandeirantes,3900 Monte Alegre, BR-14040907 Ribeirao Preto, SP, Brazil								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000784234900001	41	Article; Article		
J	Teece, Angus R.; Beaven, Martyn; Huynh, Minh; Argus, Christos K.; Gill, Nicholas; Driller, Matthew W.; Dunican, Ian; Kilduff, Liam								Nap to perform? Match-day napping on perceived match performance in professional rugby union athletes								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	2			462	469	17479541221084146	10.1177/17479541221084146			APR 2023	2023	Background Daytime napping on match-day is a strategy used by athletes to alleviate sleep debt or to avoid boredom. However, the utilization of pre-match napping and its effect on self-rated performance has not been evaluated in professional Rugby athletes. Methods Over a 17-match season, 30 professional Rugby Union athletes (mean +/- SD: 23 +/- 3 y) completed a weekly questionnaire on their daytime napping practices on match day. Questions included whether they took a nap, the duration of nap, their mood state upon waking and, their perceived performance during the subsequent match. Additionally, three team coaches evaluated the match performance of each participant. Finally, each participant was asked a questionnaire focusing on their napping preferences and individual habits of match-day napping at the conclusion of the season. Results Pre-match naps were used by 86% of athletes, with an average nap duration of 32 +/- 19 min. A significantly greater number of naps were taken during away matches compared to home matches (60% vs. 40%, p < 0.01). Of the athletes who napped, 86% chose to nap less than 4 h before kick-off. Furthermore, 87% of athletes who napped on match day reported believing naps helped their match performance. Additionally, the odds of an athlete rating their performance as "good" was increased 6.7 times if they napped and won the match. Conclusion This study highlights that match-day naps are commonly used amongst professional Rugby Union athletes. The results suggest that taking naps before away matches may support self-rated performance amongst Rugby Union athletes.		[Teece, Angus R.; Beaven, Martyn; Gill, Nicholas] Univ Waikato, Huataki Waiora Sch Hlth, Gate One,Knighton Rd, Hamilton, New Zealand; [Teece, Angus R.; Argus, Christos K.] Chiefs Rugby Club, Hamilton, New Zealand; [Huynh, Minh; Driller, Matthew W.] La Trobe Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Human Serv & Sport, Sport & Exercise Sci, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Gill, Nicholas] New Zealand Rugby, Wellington, New Zealand; [Dunican, Ian] Univ Western Australia, Crawley, WA, Australia; [Kilduff, Liam] Swansea Univ, Swansea, W Glam, Wales; [Teece, Angus R.] Univ Waikato, Huataki Waiora Sch Hlth, Gate One,Knighton Rd, Hamilton, New Zealand								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000783859000001	34	Article; Article		
J	Carboch, Jan; Brenton, John; Reischlova, Eliska; Kocib, Tomas								Anticipatory information sources of serve and returning of elite professional tennis players: A qualitative approach								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	3			761	771		10.1177/17479541221092345			JUN 2023	2023	Kinematic and contextual information is important for players as they can use these for anticipation and facilitating motor responses. The interaction of the use of this information with an understanding of how the mind works in elite players is crucial but difficult to obtain by empirical research methods. The aim was to: (i) explore and identify anticipatory information sources among professional tennis players, (ii) verify findings of Vernon et al.(I) and elaborate on these findings based upon the perspective of European players and coaches. We interviewed 9 active or former professional players (current coaches) for 30-60 min each, replicating the same methodology and questions as Vernon.(I) An open-coding analysis approach was used, with codes to identify common themes extracted from the transcribed interviews. Our findings were generally in support of Vernon's findings, verifying the importance of ball toss kinematics, contextual information sources such as the score or weather, as well as the importance of constantly updating the available kinematic and contextual information sources throughout the match. We elaborate on these findings by providing more detail regarding Vernon's findings, and add new sources of information mentioned by the interviewed players such as server's rear foot position and server's gaze. Participants shared information about their returning strategies, how they build pressure on the server, and their own service return practice, noting that this is not practiced as much as they would like it to be. Overall, focus on developing and improving visual anticipation skill is limited, even at this level of expertise.		[Carboch, Jan; Reischlova, Eliska; Kocib, Tomas] Charles Univ Prague, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Prague, Czech Republic; [Brenton, John] Accelerated Skill Acquisit, Perth, WA, Australia; [Carboch, Jan] Charles Univ Prague, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Dept Sport Games, Jose Martiho 31, Prague 16252, Czech Republic								8							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000783858700001	34	Article; Article		
J	Filipcic, Ales; Crespo, Miguel; Filipcic, Tjasa								Practice and match workload of a female tennis player in two annual seasons: A single-case study								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	3			915	922	17479541221088836	10.1177/17479541221088836			JUN 2023	2023	The aim of this single case study was to monitor the external workload of a professional female tennis player between 314 training sessions and 115 matches. A wearable device was used during two fully consecutive tennis seasons (24 months). External workload was determined using time indicators (total and active session times), shots indicators (shots per week, session, hour, rally and minute) and frequency distribution of rallies. This case study showed that the workload during practice sessions was higher compared to matches in terms of active time, percentage of active time, shots per hour and rally, and frequency distribution of rallies with more than nine shots. The number of shots executed per minute was lower in the practice sessions than in the match. It is concluded that the recommended number of shots per hour in a 90-min practice session is for the player to perform 400 to 800 shots. The recommended average number of rallies in practice sessions is 144 and 70% of the rallies should consist of four shots. The pace of rallies in open match situations in the practice sessions should reach the level of official matches. These conclusions could be useful guidelines for determining the workload of female tennis players participating in entry-level professional tournaments.		[Filipcic, Ales] Univ Ljubljana, Fac Sport, Racket Sports, Ljubljana, Slovenia; [Crespo, Miguel] Int Tennis Federat, Dev, Valencia, Spain; [Filipcic, Tjasa] Univ Ljubljana, Fac Educ, Ljubljana, Slovenia; [Filipcic, Ales] Univ Ljubljana, Fac Sport, Racket Sports, Ljubljana, Slovenia								8							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000783856500001	41	Article; Article		
J	Leibovitz, Amanda P.; Martin, Scott B.								Cycling coaches' trauma-specific education, familiarity with post-traumatic stress, and coaching efficacy								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	4			701	712	17479541221088578	10.1177/17479541221088578			AUG 2022	2022	The primary purpose of this study was to assess cycling coaches' trauma-specific education and familiarity with post-traumatic stress (PTS). A secondary purpose was to examine the relation between trauma-specific education, familiarity with PTS, and coaching efficacy specific to coaching trauma-impacted athletes, after controlling for general coaching experience. Descriptive statistics indicated that most coaches lacked trauma-specific education but reported a relatively high degree of familiarity with PTS. Hierarchical regression analyses indicated that familiarity with PTS helped to explain additional variance in coaching efficacy over and above demographic and general coach experience variables. Findings indicate that trauma-informed coaching appears to be a distinct area of research and highlights the need for improved continuing education opportunities for coaches related to psychological trauma and PTS.		[Leibovitz, Amanda P.] Univ North Texas, Denton, TX 76201 USA; [Martin, Scott B.] Univ North Texas, Kinesiol Hlth Promot & Recreat, 1921W Chestnut St, Denton, TX 76201 USA; [Martin, Scott B.] Univ North Texas, Kinesiol Hlth Promot & Recreat, 1921W Chestnut St, Denton, TX 76201 USA								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000783856200001	65	Article; Article		
J	Monn, Samara; Maf, Nicola A.; Bizzini, Mario; Sutter, Reto; Naal, Florian D.; Leunig, Michael; Casartelli, Nicola C.								Mid-term outcomes of exercise therapy for the non-surgical management of femoroacetabular impingement syndrome: are short- term effects persisting?								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				55				168	175		10.1016/j.ptsp.2022.04.007			MAY 2022	2022	Objectives: To investigate the mid-term outcomes of exercise therapy in patients with femoroacetabular impingement syndrome (FAIS). Design: Follow-up study. Setting: Clinical setting. Participants: Twenty-six patients with FAIS who completed a 12-week semi-standardized, progressive exercise therapy program. Main outcome measures: At a mid-term follow-up of 4.6 years, therapy outcome was assessed using (i) the Global Treatment Outcome questionnaire for hip pain, (ii) the Hip Outcome Score (HOS) for hip pain and function in activities of daily living (ADL) and Sport and (iii) the Hip Sports Activity Scale (HSAS) for sport activity level. Mid-term outcomes were compared to pre-symptomatic, pre-therapy, as well as to short-term follow ups (18 weeks). Results: In patients who completed the exercise program and did not undergo hip surgery (N = 19), midterm HOS ADL and HOS Sport (P = 0.002) were higher than pre-therapy, and comparable to the 18-week follow-up. Mid-term HSAS was lower than the pre-symptomatic status (P = 0.022), but comparable to the 18-week follow-up. Conclusion: At a mid-term follow-up of 4.6 years, FAIS patients with no subsequent hip surgery maintained the good exercise therapy outcomes and the level of sport activity achieved at short term. (c) 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Monn, Samara; Maf, Nicola A.; Bizzini, Mario; Casartelli, Nicola C.] Schulthess Clin, Human Performance Lab, Zurich, Switzerland; [Sutter, Reto] Orthopaed Univ Hosp Balgrist, Dept Radiol, Zurich, Switzerland; [Sutter, Reto] Univ Zurich, Fac Med, Zurich, Switzerland; [Naal, Florian D.; Leunig, Michael] Schulthess Clin, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Zurich, Switzerland; [Casartelli, Nicola C.] Swiss Fed Inst Technol, Lab Exercise & Hlth, Schwerzenbach, Switzerland; [Casartelli, Nicola C.] Swiss Fed Inst Technol, Lab Exercise & Hlth, Schwerzenbach, Switzerland; [Monn, Samara] Schulthess Clin, Human Performance Lab, Lengghalde 2, CH-8008 Zurich, Switzerland								8							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000792877000022	34	Article; Article		
J	Watabe, Takaya; Takabayashi, Tomoya; Tokunaga, Yuta; Watanabe, Takahiro; Kubo, Masayoshi								Copers exhibit altered ankle and trunk kinematics compared to the individuals with chronic ankle instability during single-leg landing								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2022.2058989				2022	Copers are individuals who have had a lateral ankle sprain but have no history of recurrent lateral ankle sprain, residual symptoms, or functional disability. Copers have shown no significant difference in lower limb kinematics in landing for proactive conditions compared with a control (CTR) group. However, the copers (CPR) group has shown differences compared to CTR and chronic ankle instability (CAI) groups for dynamic balance conditions, suggesting that the trunk may compensate for foot instability during shock absorption. This study aimed to examine the differences in the kinematics and kinetics among CPR, CAI and CTR groups in reactive and proactive single-leg landing tasks. Participants were physically active adults with CAI (n = 14), CPR (n = 14), and CTR (n = 14), who performed proactive and reactive single-leg landings. The lower limb, trunk kinematics, vertical ground reaction force (vGRF) peak value, and the time to minimum peak vGRF were analysed. It might be conceivable that the CPR group could absorb vGRF efficiently by increasing the trunk flexion angle and increasing the time to reach the minimum peak vGRF regardless of landing condition. The results suggest that evaluating the movements of the entire body, including the ankle and trunk, is essential.		[Watabe, Takaya] Kanazawa Univ Hosp, Sect Rehabil, 13-1 Takaramachi, Kanazawa, Ishikawa 9208641, Japan; [Takabayashi, Tomoya; Watanabe, Takahiro; Kubo, Masayoshi] Niigata Univ Hlth & Welf, Inst Human Movement & Med Sci, Kita Ku, 1398 Shimami Cho, Niigata, Niigata 9503198, Japan; [Tokunaga, Yuta] Terrabyte Corp, Bunkyo Ku, 3-10-7 Yushima, Tokyo 1130034, Japan; [Watabe, Takaya] Kanazawa Univ Hosp, Sect Rehabil, 13-1 Takaramachi, Kanazawa, Ishikawa 920864, Japan								11							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000783019100001	38	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Kaldau, Niels Christian; Nedergaard, Niels Jensby; Holmich, Per; Bencke, Jesper								Adjusted Landing Technique Reduces the Load on the Achilles Tendon in Badminton Players								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				21	2			224	232		10.52082/jssm.2022.224			JUN 2022	2022	Achilles tendon (AT) rupture is common among recreational male badminton players. We hypothesize that a landing technique following forehand jump strokes with the landing foot in a neutral position often performed by recreational players and occasionally by elite players may expose the AT to higher loads than a scissor kick jump (SKJ) technique with the leg/foot externally rotated. The study aimed to investigate if recreational players could reduce the load in the AT when adopting the SKJ technique compared to their habitual landing technique with the foot in a neutral position and secondarily to compare the AT force between recreational players and elite players. Ten recreational male players performed simulated jump strokes in a biomechanical laboratory using both their original technique and the SKJ technique traditionally used by elite players. For comparison reasons ten elite players performed SKJs. Landing kinematics and AT forces were captured and calculated using 3D movement analysis. The landing leg was more externally rotated in the recreational players' adjusted technique (78 +/- 10 degrees, p < 0.001) compared to 22 +/- 21 degrees in recreational players' original technique. The peak AT force of the recreational players was significantly higher for the original technique compared to the adjusted technique (68 +/- 19 N/kg vs. 50 +/- 14 N/kg, p = 0.005). Additionally, the peak AT forces observed during the recreational players' original technique was higher, though not significantly, than those observed for elite players (55 +/- 11 N/kg, p = 0.017). a = 0.016 due to a Bonferroni correction. These findings indicate that recreational badminton players that normally land with the foot in a neutral position, may reduce their AT load by 25% when adopting the SKJ technique of elite players and land with the leg/foot in an externally rotated position.		[Kaldau, Niels Christian; Holmich, Per] Copenhagen Univ Hosp, Amager Hvidovre Hosp, Sports Orthoped Res Ctr Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark; [Nedergaard, Niels Jensby; Bencke, Jesper] Copenhagen Univ Hosp, Amager Hvidovre Hosp, Dept Orthoped Surg, Human Movement Anal Lab, Copenhagen, Denmark; [Kaldau, Niels Christian] Copenhagen Univ Hosp, Amager Hvidovre Hosp, Sports Orthoped Res Ctr Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:000789101000001	35	Article; Article		
J	Batista, Elias Dos Santos; Lopes Ribeiro, Bruno Laerte; Galvao-Coelho, Nicole Leite; de Almeida, Raissa Nobrega; Teixeira, Romulo Vasconcelos; Da Silveira, Jonatas Cardoso; de Morais Ferreira, Ayrton Bruno; Mortatti, Arnaldo Luis								Effects of Training Loads on Stress Tolerance and Mucosal Immunity in High-Intensity Functional Fitness Athletes								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	2			500	509		10.1080/02701367.2021.2011828			APR 3 2023	2023	Purpose: This study aimed to analyze the effects of training load on stress tolerance (ST) and secretory immunoglobulin A (SIgA) in male and female high-intensity functional fitness (HIFF) athletes during two different 10 and consecutive weekly training volume loads [higher (week 1) and lower volume (week 2)]. Methods: 14 athletes [7 males: 29.3 (+/- 5.8) years; 86.3 (+/- 8.2) kg and 176.8 (+/- 3.8) cm and 7 females: 32.7 (+/- 4.4) years; 60.0 (+/- 6.7) kg and 162.5 (+/- 5.9) cm] participated. The ST, assessed by Daily Analysis of Life Demand in Athletes questionnaire (DALDA) and Saliva sampling were performed in four time-points (pre (T1) and post (T2) week 1; pre (T3) and post (T4) week 2). Results: Female athletes showed a decrease in ST (symptoms of stress) from 15 T1 to T3 [F-(3,F-36) = 7.184, p< 0.001, eta p(2) = 0.374], without difference in male athletes (p > .05). There is a significant difference of SIgA concentration [F-(3.36) = 3.551; p = .024; eta p(2) = 0.228], with a significant decrease in female athletes group in T2 compared to T1 (p = .013) and T4 (p = .023). In addition, the different training volume loads did not impact mucosal immunity in male athletes (p > .05). Conclusion: The current findings suggest that higher HIFF volume results in decreased ST and SIgA concentration in female 20 athletes and a subsequent decrease in training volume loads contributed to restoring these variables.		[Batista, Elias Dos Santos; Lopes Ribeiro, Bruno Laerte; Teixeira, Romulo Vasconcelos; Da Silveira, Jonatas Cardoso; de Morais Ferreira, Ayrton Bruno; Mortatti, Arnaldo Luis] Fed Univ Rio Grande Do Norte UFRN, Natal, RN, Brazil; [Galvao-Coelho, Nicole Leite; de Almeida, Raissa Nobrega] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Norte, Natal, RN, Brazil; [Mortatti, Arnaldo Luis] Fed Univ Rio Grande Do Norte UFRN, Dept Phys Educ, Av Senador Salgado Filho 3000, BR-59090315 Natal, RN, Brazil								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000782372500001	68	Article; Article		
J	Anderson, Liam; Flannigan, Craig; Polychronopoulos, Paraskevas; MacKenzie, Robbie; Drust, Barry; Milsom, Jordan								Lessons from the COVID-19 pandemic: Insights into effective training strategies for physical development in football								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	2			403	413	17479541221081782	10.1177/17479541221081782			APR 2023	2023	Professional soccer players typically perform regular training sessions and match play for most of the yearly macrocycle with limited time focused on solely developing physical development. The COVID-19 outbreak in 2020 caused mass disruption to professional soccer but provided an opportunity for an alternative approach to training in attempt to develop professional soccer players physical fitness levels. In a non-randomised and non-controlled study, we aimed to assess the effectiveness of a 13-week remote based physical training programme on physical fitness levels in elite professional soccer players. Twenty professional soccer players undertook body composition assessments, a countermovement jump (CMJ) test, eccentric hamstring strength test and a submaximal 30-15 intermittent fitness test (IFT) pre- and post-remote based training programme. Body mass (79.3 +/- 6.7 vs. 80.0 +/- 7.3 kg), skinfold thickness (54.1 +/- 14.8 vs. 56.7 +/- 15.2 mm), maximum CMJ height (38.4 +/- 3.4 vs. 40.9 +/- 4.1 cm), eccentric hamstring strength (1035 +/- 158 vs. 1009 +/- 140 n) and percentage max heart rate reached in submaximal 30-15 IFT (81.3 +/- 5.2 vs. 82.3 +/- 7.3%) were maintained (all P > 0.05) from pre- to post training programme, respectively. Although team-based soccer specific training load was removed, and the training programmes prescribed had an increased physical focus, fitness levels were maintained. This suggests that alternative modes of training can potentially be used in instances where team-based soccer specific training load isn't required or is unavailable, without negatively impacting physical development.		[Anderson, Liam; Drust, Barry] Univ Birmingham, Sch Sport Exercise & Rehabil Sci, Birmingham, W Midlands, England; [Flannigan, Craig; Polychronopoulos, Paraskevas; MacKenzie, Robbie] Rangers Football Club, Performance Dept, Glasgow, Lanark, Scotland; [Milsom, Jordan] Aston Villa Football Club, Sports Sci & Med Dept, Birmingham, W Midlands, England; [Anderson, Liam] Univ Birmingham, Sch Sport Exercise & Rehabil Sci, Birmingham, W Midlands, England								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000783554100001	48	Article; Article		
J	Roure, Cedric; Dieu, Olivier								Matching Learning Tasks With Students' Conative Stages in Badminton: Effects on Situational Interest								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	2			519	528		10.1080/02701367.2021.2015060			APR 3 2023	2023	Purpose: The purpose of this study was to determine the extent to which matching three learning tasks with students' conative stages in badminton can increase their situational interest. Method: Ninety-seven secondary school students (M-age = 13.0, SD = 1.4, 50.5% girls, aged 11-16) practiced three learning tasks in badminton, designed to reflect the game intentions associated with their conative stages. They responded to the 15-item situational interest scale after practicing each of the three learning tasks. Results: According to the differences related to the SI dimensions scores between the learning tasks, matching the design of three learning tasks with the students' game intentions results in higher scores in the SI dimensions. Conclusion: Using the conative stages to characterize students' expertise levels in badminton, this study fine-tunes the connection between the students and the learning tasks by exceeding the common criterion related to the students' technical skills. This study also confirms that instant enjoyment, exploration intention, attention demand, and challenge were key dimensions underlying students' motivation in badminton in relation to its technical, tactical and physical components.		[Roure, Cedric] Univ Teacher Educ, Lausanne, Switzerland; [Dieu, Olivier] Univ Littoral Opal Coast, Dunkerque, France; [Roure, Cedric] Haute Ecole Pedag Vaud, Unite Enseignement & Rech Didact Educ Phys & Spor, Ave Cour 25, CH-1014 Lausanne, Switzerland								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000781666300001	29	Article; Article		
J	Rodrigues, Guilherme Moraes; Ramalho de Oliveira, Bruno Ribeiro; Jesus Abreu, Marco Antonio; Gomes, Franklin; Machado, Sergio; Monteiro, Walace; Lattari, Eduardo								Anodal Transcranial Direct Current Stimulation Does Not Affect Velocity Loss During a Typical Resistance Exercise Session								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	2			444	453		10.1080/02701367.2021.2005235			APR 3 2023	2023	Purpose: This study investigated the effects of transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) on velocity loss in a typical resistance exercise session. Methods: Twelve recreationally resistance-trained males (age = 24.8 +/- 3.0 years, body mass = 78.9 +/- 13.6 kg, and height = 174.3 +/- 7.3 cm) completed two experimental trials in a counterbalanced crossover design: anodal tDCS and sham conditions. The stimuli were applied over the left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex for 20 minutes, using a 2 mA current intensity in anodal tDCS and a 1-minute active stimulus in the sham condition. After stimulation, subjects performed three sets of the bench press at a 70% of 1 maximum repetition intensity and 1 min of inter-set rest. The velocity loss was calculated as the relative difference between the fastest repetition velocity (usually first) and the velocity of the last repetition of each set and averaged over all three sets. Results: The results found no interaction between conditions and sets (P = .122), and no effect for conditions (P = .323) or sets (P = .364) for the velocity loss in each set. Also, no differences were found between the average velocity loss of the three sets in the anodal tDCS (-25.0 +/- 4.7%) and sham condition (-23.3 +/- 6.4%; P = .323). Conclusion: Anodal tDCS does not affect movement velocity in a typical strength training protocol in recreationally trained subjects.		[Rodrigues, Guilherme Moraes; Jesus Abreu, Marco Antonio; Gomes, Franklin; Monteiro, Walace; Lattari, Eduardo] Salgado Oliveira Univ UNIVERSO, Niteroi, RJ, Brazil; [Ramalho de Oliveira, Bruno Ribeiro] Univ Fed Rural Rio de Janeiro, Seropedica, RJ, Brazil; [Machado, Sergio] Univ Fed Santa Maria, Santa Maria, RS, Brazil; [Machado, Sergio] Neurodivers Inst, Salvador, BA, Brazil; [Monteiro, Walace] Univ Estado Rio De Janeiro, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil; [Lattari, Eduardo] Salgado de Oliveira Univ UNIVERSO, Phys Act Sci Postgrad Program, BR-24030060 Niteroi, RJ, Brazil								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000781670700001	40	Article; Article		
J	Collins, Clay; Humphreys, Brad R.								Contest Outcome Uncertainty and Fan Decisions: A Meta-Analysis								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				23	6			789	807	15270025221091544	10.1177/15270025221091544			AUG 2022	2022	Outcome uncertainty represents a central, defining area of sports economic research. Contest outcome uncertainty (COU), the idea that fan expectations about game outcomes affects attendance decisions, receives substantial attention in the literature, including many papers published in this journal. The standard model of fan decisions under uncertainty generates two diametrically opposed predictions about the COU-attendance relationship, depending on fan preferences, generating tension in the empirical literature. We undertake a meta-analysis of the empirical COU literature to assess empirical support for these predictions. We identify more than 500 empirical model specifications reported in 97 COU papers. The results slightly favor the loss aversion version of the model, but the literature contains no consensus. Sport analyzed and choice of COU proxy variable have no relationship to reported results. Simple OLS and panel data methods generate much of the evidence, highlighting the importance of using causal inference methods in future research.		[Collins, Clay; Humphreys, Brad R.] John Chambers Coll Business & Econ, Dept Econ, POB 6025, Morgantown, WV 26506 USA; [Humphreys, Brad R.] John Chambers Coll Business & Econ, Dept Econ, POB 6025, Morgantown, WV 26506 USA								18							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000782091700001	17	Article; Article		
J	Csato, Laszlo								Quantifying the unfairness of the 2018 FIFA World Cup qualification								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	1			183	196	17479541211073455	10.1177/17479541211073455			FEB 2023	2023	This paper investigates the fairness of the 2018 FIFA World Cup qualifying competition via Monte Carlo simulations. The qualifying probabilities are calculated for 102 nations, all teams except for African and European countries. A method is proposed to quantify the degree of unfairness. Although the qualifications within four FIFA confederations are constructed fairly, serious differences are found between the continents: for instance, a South American team could have tripled its chances by playing in Asia. Choosing a fixed matchup in the inter-continental play-offs instead of the current random draw can reduce the unfairness of the competition. The move of Australia from the Oceanian to the Asian zone is shown to increase its probability of participating in the 2018 FIFA World Cup by about 65%. Our results provide important insights for the administrators on how to reallocate the qualifying berths.		[Csato, Laszlo] Eotvos Lorand Res Network ELKH, Inst Comp Sci & Control SZTAKI, Res Grp Operat Res & Decis Syst, Lab Engn & Management Intelligence, Budapest, Hungary; [Csato, Laszlo] Corvinus Univ Budapest BCE, Dept Operat Res & Actuarial Sci, Budapest, Hungary; [Csato, Laszlo] Inst Comp Sci & Control SZTAKI, Kende St 13-17, Budapest, Hungary								14							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000782109000001	60	Article; Article		
J	Laporta, Lorenzo; De Conti Teixeira Costa, Gustavo; Fernandes, Leonardo Gasparini; Pastori, Iago Augusto; Rocha, Augusto Cezar Rodrigues; Hileno, Raul; Lima, Ricardo Franco; Castro, Henrique de Oliveira; Afonso, Jose								Sequence and efficacy of game complexes in high-level women's volleyball: A novel perspective through Social Network Analysis								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	3			867	873		10.1177/17479541221087688			JUN 2023	2023	The stereotyped sequence of volleyball actions allows organising them into six game complexes (K), each with specific dynamics. The purpose of this study was to verify the game flow in high-level women's volleyball through the sequencing of game complexes, their relative importance within the game and their relationship to attack efficacy. Seven matches of the Women's Brazil Cup'2020, knockout competition played by the 8 best teams of the 2019/2020 Superliga, were analysed (31 sets, 1268 rallies). The matches were obtained through the online video platform www.youtube.com . Pearson's chi-squared test (chi(2)) with Monte Carlo correction was used to assess the association between the variables, and Social Network Analysis with Eigenvector Centrality for the understanding of the nodes interactions their relative importance in a global context The highest frequencies occurred for K0 (28.75%), KI (25.54%), and KII (23.39%), followed by Kill (15.60%), KV (3.73%), and KIV (2.99%). Positive associations occurred between KI and error; K0 and first KIV and continuity; and between KI, KII, first KIII, second KIII, first KV or second KV and point. The highest Eigenvector Centrality values occurred in first KVEI and first KIVEI, and the lowest in K0E0, K0E2 and seventh KIIIE0. The results showed that the game complexes unfold in sequences with different frequencies; the sequences K0EI-KIE2, K0EI-KIEI-KIIE2; K0EI-KIE0 and K0EI-KIEI-KIIEI-KIII( I )E2 are the most frequent, which is informative for approximating the regularities of the training sessions to those of the matches.		[Laporta, Lorenzo] Univ Reg Integrada Alto Uruguai & Missoes URI San, Batista Bonoto Sobrinho St, BR-97700000 Santiago, RS, Brazil; [Laporta, Lorenzo] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Sul, Escola Educ Fis Fisioterapia & Danca, Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil; [De Conti Teixeira Costa, Gustavo; Castro, Henrique de Oliveira] Univ Fed Goias, Fac Educ Fis & Danca, Goiania, Go, Brazil; [Fernandes, Leonardo Gasparini] Univ Luterana Brasil, Campus Santa Maria, Santa Maria, RS, Brazil; [Pastori, Iago Augusto] Univ Fed Santa Maria, Santa Maria, RS, Brazil; [Hileno, Raul] Univ Lleida, INEFC Lleida, Lleida, Spain; [Lima, Ricardo Franco] Inst Politecn Viana Castelo, Escola Super Desporto & Lazer, Melgaco, Portugal; [Castro, Henrique de Oliveira] Univ Fed Mato Grosso, Fac Educ Fis, Cuiaba, Brazil; [Afonso, Jose] Univ Porto, Fac Sport, Ctr Res Educ Innovat & Intervent Sport, Porto, Portugal; [Laporta, Lorenzo] Univ Reg Integrada Alto Uruguai & Missoes URI San, Batista Bonoto Sobrinho St, BR-97700000 Santiago, RS, Brazil								11							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000782108900001	45	Article; Article		
J	de Jong, Laura M. S.; Gastin, Paul B.; Bruce, Lyndell; Dwyer, Dan B.								Teamwork and performance in professional women's football: A network-based analysis								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	3			848	857	17479541221092355	10.1177/17479541221092355			JUN 2023	2023	Analysis of the underlying tactics and teamwork in women's football is rare and it is unknown how professional women's teams cooperate to be successful. The aim of this study was to investigate teamwork using network analysis while comparing match-outcome, match-type, ladder halves and tournament phases, to determine whether teamwork is related to success. Ball transfer data in 694 matches from the 2015, 2016 and 2017/18 Football Association Women's Super League (FA WSL) seasons; 2016-2018 National Women's Football League (NWSL) seasons; 2013 and 2017 European Cups; and 2011 and 2013 World Cups were analysed. The network metrics: edge density, transitivity, mean distance, out degree centrality, closeness centrality, betweenness centrality and eigenvector centrality were calculated. Success was categorised in match outcomes, ladder halves, tournament phases and ladder positions. It was found that successful professional women's football teams are highly connected (p = 0.006), and the distribution of ball possession is centralised (p = 0.001). There is a tendency for key players to send out a high number of passes, but there is no dependency on these key players for the total ball flow within a team, which is a characteristic that may be unique to women's football. Differences in teamwork exist between single matches and full seasons or tournaments, with successful teams having more effective ball movement and successful passes over the course of a season or tournament (p < 0.001). Moreover, successful league teams have more players with connecting roles than tournament teams and match tactics should be adapted to this.		[de Jong, Laura M. S.; Bruce, Lyndell; Dwyer, Dan B.] Deakin Univ, Ctr Sport Res, Sch Exercise & Nutr Sci, Locked Bag 20000, Geelong, Vic 3220, Australia; [Gastin, Paul B.] La Trobe Univ, La Trobe Sport & Exercise Med Res Ctr, Sch Allied Hlth Human Serv & Sport, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [de Jong, Laura M. S.] Deakin Univ, Ctr Sport Res, Sch Exercise & Nutr Sci, Locked Bag 20000, Geelong, Vic 3220, Australia								9							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000780660900001	43	Article; Article		
J	Konrad, Andreas; Seiberl, Wolfgang; Tilp, Markus; Holzer, Denis; Paternoster, Florian Kurt								What to stretch?-Isolated proprioceptive neuromuscular facilitation stretching of either quadriceps or triceps surae followed by post-stretching activities alters tissue stiffness and jump performance								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2022.2058991				2022	To overcome a possible drop in performance following longer stretch durations (>60 s), post-stretching dynamic activities (PSA) can be applied. However, it is not clear if this is true for isolated proprioceptive neuromuscular facilitation (PNF) stretching of different muscle groups (e.g., triceps surae and quadriceps). Thus, 16 participants performed both interventions (triceps surae PNF + PSA; quadriceps PNF + PSA) in random order, separated by 48 h. Jump performance was assessed with a force plate, and tissue stiffness was assessed with a MyotonPro device. While no changes were detected in the countermovement jump performance, the PNF + PSA interventions resulted in a decrease in drop jump performance which led to a large magnitude of change following the triceps surae PNF + PSA and a small-to-medium magnitude of change following the quadriceps PNF + PSA. Moreover, in the triceps surae PNF + PSA intervention, a decrease in Achilles tendon stiffness was seen, while in the quadriceps PNF + PSA intervention, a decrease in the overall quadriceps muscle stiffness was seen. According to our results, we recommend that especially triceps surae stretching is avoided during warm-up (also when PSA is included) when the goal is to optimise explosive or reactive muscle contractions.		[Konrad, Andreas; Tilp, Markus] Graz Univ, Inst Human Movement Sci Sport & Hlth, Graz, Austria; [Konrad, Andreas; Holzer, Denis; Paternoster, Florian Kurt] Tech Univ Munich, Biomech Sports, Munich, Germany; [Seiberl, Wolfgang] Univ Bundeswehr Munich, Inst Sport Sci, Dept Human Sci, Munich, Germany; [Konrad, Andreas] Graz Univ, Inst Human Movement Sci Sport & Hlth, Graz, Austria; [Konrad, Andreas] Tech Univ Munich, Biomech Sports, Munich, Germany								11							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000779930500001	63	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Rial-Vazquez, Jessica; Rua-Alonso, Maria; Farinas, Juan; Aracama, Asier; Tufano, James; Iglesias-Soler, Eliseo								Heart Rate Responses and Cardiovascular Adaptations to Resistance Training Programs Differing in Set Configuration: A Randomized Controlled Trial								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	2			466	475		10.1080/02701367.2021.2008293			APR 3 2023	2023	Purpose: This study explored the changes in blood pressure and cardiac autonomic modulation after training programs differin in set configuration. Methods: Thirty-nine individuals were randomly assigned to a traditional, rest-redistribution, or control group. Throughout five weeks, the traditional and rest-redistribution groups performed 10 sessions of four exercises with the same load, number of repetitions, and total rest time, but with different inter-set rest duration and frequency (traditional group: 4 sets of 8 repetitions, 10 repetition maximum load, 5 min rest between sets and exercises; rest-redistribution group: 16 sets of 2 repetitions, 1 min rest between sets, 5 min rest between exercises). Heart rate and heart rate recovery were recorded during each training session, and heart rate variability, baroreflex sensitivity and effectiveness, blood pressure, and blood pressure variability were evaluated at rest bedore and after the interventions. Results: During the sessions, traditional sets entailed greater peak heart rate compared to rest-redistribution (P = .018) but mean heart rate, minimum heart rate, and heart rate recovery were similar between training programs (P >.05). Baroreflex effectiveness was reduced after the traditional intervention (P = .013). No changes were detected for the rest of the cardiovascular variables obtained at rest after intervention (P > .05). Conclusions: Despite some differences in heart rate response during exercise, neither traditional nor rest-redistribution resistance training protocols produced changes in cardiac autonomic modulation, sympathetic vasomotor tone, and cardiac baroreflex sensitivity of young healthy active individuals. However, traditional sets affected the baroreflex effectiveness.		[Rial-Vazquez, Jessica; Rua-Alonso, Maria; Farinas, Juan; Aracama, Asier; Iglesias-Soler, Eliseo] Univ A Coruna, Oleiros, A Coruna, Spain; [Tufano, James] Charles Univ Prague, Prague, Czech Republic; [Iglesias-Soler, Eliseo] Univ A Coruna, Performance & Hlth Grp, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Fac Sports Sci & Phys Educ, Avda E Che Guevara 121 Pazos Lians, Oleiros 15179, A Coruna, Spain								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000779552500001	47	Article; Article		
J	Branco, Guilherme R.; Resende, Renan A.; Bittencourt, Natalia F. N.; Mendonca, Luciana D.								Interaction of hip and foot factors associated with anterior knee pain in mountain bikers								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				55				139	145		10.1016/j.ptsp.2022.04.001			MAY 2022	2022	Objective: To investigate the association of interactions among trunk, hip, and foot/ankle musculoskeletal factors with the presence of anterior knee pain (AKP) in mountain bikers. Design: Cross-sectional study. Setting: Private clinical setting. Participants: Fifty professional and amateur cyclists, with and without AKP, were included. Main outcome measures: Bridge test with unilateral knee extension, hip stability isometric test (HipSIT), passive hip internal rotation (IR) range of motion (ROM), shank-forefoot alignment (SFA), and ankle dorsiflexion ROM were analyzed by classification and regression tree (CART) to identify interactions with AKP presence. A receiver-operating characteristic (ROC) curve verified accuracy of the model. To investigate strength of associations, prevalence ratios were calculated for each terminal node of the CART model. Results: Interactions among passive hip IR ROM, HipSIT, ankle dorsiflexion ROM and SFA identified mountain bikers with and without AKP. The model achieved 76.9% sensitivity and 87.5% specificity. The area under the ROC curve was 0.86 (95% confidence interval: 0.75-0.97; standard error 0.05; p < 0.0001). Conclusion: Presence of AKP in mountain bike cyclists was associated with interactions among passive hip IR ROM, HipSIT and ankle dorsiflexion ROM captured by CART, indicating that the contribution of one factor depends on the presence of other factors. (c) 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Branco, Guilherme R.; Resende, Renan A.; Mendonca, Luciana D.] Univ Fed Vales Jequitinhonha & Mucuri Diamantina, Postgrad Program Rehabil & Funct Performance, Diamantina, MG, Brazil; [Resende, Renan A.; Mendonca, Luciana D.] Univ Fed Minas Gerais, Sch Phys Educ Phys Therapy & Occupat Therapy, Phys Therapy Dept, Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil; [Resende, Renan A.] Univ Fed Minas Gerais, Sch Phys Educ Phys Therapy & Occupat Therapy, Grad Program Rehabil Sci, Dept Phys Therapy, Ave Antonio Carlos 6627 Campus Pampulha, BR-31270901 Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil; [Bittencourt, Natalia F. N.] Cruzeiro Sport Club, Hlth & Performance Dept, Adolfo Lippi Fonseca St,250 Trevo, BR-31545170 Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil; [Mendonca, Luciana D.] Univ Fed Minas Gerais, Phys Therapy Dept, President Antonio Carlos Ave,6627 Campus Pampulh, BR-31270901 Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil								7							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000792877000018	49	Article; Article		
J	Pinto, Andre de Araujo; Bim, Mateus Augusto; Franco Moreno, Yara Maria; Augustemak de Lima, Luiz Rodrigo; Silva, Analiza Monica; Pelegrini, Andreia								Agreement Between Body Mass Index and Body Fat in Adolescents With Different Physical Activity Levels								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	2			454	459		10.1080/02701367.2021.2007211			APR 3 2023	2023	Purpose: This study aimed to verify the agreement between body mass index (BMI) and body fat in adolescents with different physical activity (PA) levels. Method: This cross-sectional study collected body fat data in 118 adolescents (aged 10 to 14 years) estimated using air-displacement plethysmography (ADP). Body mass 10 and height were used to calculate BMI. Physical activity levels were measured objectively by accelerometers. Results: For boys with low PA, BMI overestimated body fat values measured by ADP (mean error = -0.42; p = .018) which also occurred in group high PA (mean error = -0.76; p = .001). For girls, BMI underestimated body fat values measured by ADP values in group high PA (mean error = 0.43; p = .001) and low PA (mean error = 0.72; p < .001). Conclusion: It is recommended that researchers and practitioners 15 cautiously interpret BMI results, especially considering that most adolescents do not practice enough PA.		[Pinto, Andre de Araujo; Bim, Mateus Augusto; Pelegrini, Andreia] Univ Santa Catarina State, Florianopolis, SC, Brazil; [Franco Moreno, Yara Maria] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Florianopolis, SC, Brazil; [Augustemak de Lima, Luiz Rodrigo] Univ Fed Alagoas, Maceio, Alagoas, Brazil; [Silva, Analiza Monica] Univ Lisbon, Lisbon, Portugal; [Pelegrini, Andreia] Univ Estado Santa Catarina, Hlth & Sports Sci Ctr, Dept Phys Educ, Pascoal Simone St 358, BR-88080350 Florianopolis, SC, Brazil								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000779401600001	39	Article; Article		
J	Moeller, Fabian; Hoffmann, Uwe; Steinberg, Fabian; Vogt, Tobias								Rule-directed and discovery learning in SCUBA-diving								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	3			737	747	17479541221091453	10.1177/17479541221091453			JUN 2023	2023	Time efficiency is crucial when teaching SCUBA-diving with limited practice time. Safety skills must be learned with sufficient quality and still be mastered after long breaks and in critical situations. We hypothesized a rule-directed learning approach (RL), which provides the learners with information on the best way to perform a skill, to show good initial results but less stability over time. Discovery learning (DL), which enables learners to experience more variability and to find individual solutions, might support greater stability over time and higher robustness to stress and fatigue. 25 beginners (age:22.5 +/- 2.7; 5 females) were randomly assigned to RL (N = 13) or DL (N = 12) and received the same general criteria for successful deployment of a surface marker buoy. Only RL got additional visual presentation and explicit instructions. Six acquisition trials were conducted. Three evaluation trials were performed, video-recorded, and independently rated for water-position/trim, time, and safety-aspects (Pre). Another three rated trials were performed after 45 (+/- 5) days without further practice (Retention). Safety performance was rated higher for RL both during Pre (P < 0.001) and Retention (P < 0.001), but RL took significantly more time during Pre (P < 0.001) and Retention (P < 0.001) and reported a significantly higher perceived performance quality during Retention (P = 0.014) compared to DL. Trim performance improved for RL and deteriorated for DL from Pre to Retention. Performance quality in unique aspects of the new skill seems to benefit more from explicit instructions with a detriment for speed. The suspected higher learning for DL and robust performance in the Retention test could not be observed.		[Moeller, Fabian; Hoffmann, Uwe] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Exercise Training & Sport Informat, Dept Exercise Physiol, Cologne, Germany; [Steinberg, Fabian] Louisiana State Univ, Sch Kinesiol, Baton Rouge, LA 70803 USA; [Moeller, Fabian; Vogt, Tobias] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Profess Sport Educ & Sport Qualificat, Cologne, Germany; [Vogt, Tobias] Waseda Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Tokorozawa, Saitama, Japan; [Moeller, Fabian] German Sport Univ Cologne, Dept Exercise Physiol, Cologne, Germany								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000780953600001	42	Article; Article		
J	Wardenaar, Floris C.; Vento, Kaila A.; Ortega-Santos, Carmen P.; Connolly, John; Vanos, Jennifer K.								The impact of different playing surfaces on physiological parameters in collegiate DI American football athletes								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	3			781	792	17479541221089748	10.1177/17479541221089748			JUN 2023	2023	Heat conditioning aids in acclimatization to support health and performance, yet heat safety is an important factor. This quasi-experimental pilot study investigated differences in micro-environmental conditions and physiological outcomes in n = 5 Division I collegiate American football players over different playing surfaces during summertime in the southwest U.S. Participants performed three practice sessions on hot days (similar to 33 degrees C): outdoors on artificial turf (AT) and natural grass (NG); and an indoor dome (ID). Microclimate parameters, including net radiative fluxes, and physiological markers (core temperature (T-c), skin temperature (T-sk), heart rate, and hydration) were continuously and simultaneously monitored. Microclimate conditions varied across the three environments. Outdoors, the largest differences were observed in surface temperatures between AT and NG (67.0 degrees C and 32.8 degrees C, respectively), resulting in higher emitted longwave radiation (infrared heat), slightly increasing air temperatures. Indoors, the lack of radiation lessened the overall heat load, yet higher humidity and lower airflow were observed. Physiologically, similar baseline T-c and T-sk and self-reported heat stress levels were recorded. During exercise, a significantly higher T-sk value was found on the AT (higher heat load), followed by the NG (moderate) and ID (lowest). The same pattern was reflected in T-c, RPE, and self-reported heat stress, even with lower solar radiation on AT. No differences between environments were reported for estimated energy expenditure, pre/post-body weight, bodyweight loss, fluid intake, or sweat rate. Small changes in microclimates affect overall heat loads and measured and perceived heat stress, which coaches can use in decision-making for session type, heat safety, and/or acclimatization goals.		[Wardenaar, Floris C.; Vento, Kaila A.; Ortega-Santos, Carmen P.] Arizona State Univ, Coll Hlth Solut, 425 N 5th St, Phoenix, AZ 85004 USA; [Ortega-Santos, Carmen P.] Univ Colorado, Div Endocrinol Metab & Diabet, Dept Med, Anschutz Med Campus, Aurora, CO USA; [Connolly, John] Arizona State Univ, Sun Devil Athlet, Tempe, AZ USA; [Vanos, Jennifer K.] Arizona State Univ, Coll Global Futures, Sch Sustainabil, Tempe, AZ USA; [Wardenaar, Floris C.] Arizona State Univ, Coll Hlth Solut, 425 N 5th St, Phoenix, AZ 85004 USA								11							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000780951900001	43	Article; Article		
J	Barake, Adrian J.; Mitchell, Heather; Stavros, Constantino; Stewart, Mark F.								A game for the ages: Understanding and overcoming the relative age effect in Australian football								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	2			508	515	17479541221081135	10.1177/17479541221081135			APR 2023	2023	The Relative Age Effect (RAE) in sport refers to the over-representation of those born earlier in a defined age group. This discriminatory effect leads to market inefficiencies and can have profound impacts upon career pathways, dropout rates and the quality of sport. This research examines how this effect influences the recruitment and performance of a cohort of Australian footballers as they progress from junior competitions to the professional level. While the RAE results from bias influencing the selection process of junior pathways, we demonstrate that those who survive to the final stages of selection and were born later in their age groups actually emerge with an advantage (rather than the expected disadvantage). The selection of these younger players results from recruiters explicitly taking account of the RAE. When the performance of these advantaged players is assessed at the professional level, they perform relatively well, suggesting that the recruiters are expertly considering the consequences of the RAE; although their task would be considerably easier if they were not dealing with a legion of young footballers whose characteristics had already been heavily shaped by the RAE. We consider a range of implications of this effect and suggest policy measures to address it.		[Barake, Adrian J.; Mitchell, Heather; Stavros, Constantino; Stewart, Mark F.] RMIT Univ, Sch Econ Finance & Mkt, 445 Swanston St, Melbourne, Vic 3000, Australia; [Stewart, Mark F.] RMIT Univ, Sch Econ Finance & Mkt, 445 Swanston St, Melbourne, Vic 3000, Australia								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000779318900001	34	Article; Article		
J	Perri, Thomas; Duffield, Rob; Murphy, Alistair; Mabon, Tom; Reid, Machar								Periodisation in professional tennis: A macro to micro analysis of load management strategies within a cluttered calendar								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	3			772	780	17479541221091087	10.1177/17479541221091087			JUN 2023	2023	Aim This study analysed the periodisation of internal loads across training and competition blocks of future top 250 (T250) professionally ranked tennis players' professional transitions. Methods Retrospective data was analysed from 10 male and 8 female Australian tennis players aged between 16 to 18 who later achieved professional rankings inside the T250. Session-rating of perceived exertion training load (sRPE TL) was collected from all sessions using an online application. Data were collected from official matches, on-court skill-based training, and off-court sessions (i.e., strength, conditioning, body management) and classified according to their occurrence in either training or competition blocks. Weekly sRPE TL was quantified for respective training and competition periods. One-way analysis of variance and effect size analyses compared within-sex training loads between training and competition blocks. Results Training blocks lasted longer than competitions for both sexes (p < 0.05). Training blocks for males had greater daily durations (p < 0.01), but not sRPE TL (p = 0.08). Total load for females was not different between periods (p > 0.05). Training blocks had higher on-court and off-court loads compared to competition (p < 0.05). No difference in weekly training and competition loads were observed (p > 0.05). Skill-based sessions in training periods were longer with higher loads for both sexes (p < 0.05), with no difference in duration, rating of perceived exertion (RPE) and sRPE TL observed between periods for off-court sessions (p > 0.05). Conclusions Future T250 players experience higher sRPE TL in training blocks, with reductions in both total on-court and off-court load during tournaments. Regardless, limited evidence of periodised weekly loads exists within training and competition periods.		[Perri, Thomas; Duffield, Rob] Univ Technol Sydney, Fac Hlth, Sport & Exercise Discipline Grp, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Perri, Thomas; Murphy, Alistair; Mabon, Tom; Reid, Machar] Tennis Australia, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Perri, Thomas] King Arthur Terrace, Tennyson, Qld 4105, Australia								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000819220300001	38	Article; Article		
J	Gaamouri, Nawel; Hammami, Mehrez; Shephard, Roy J.; Chelly, Mohamed Souhaiel; Knechtle, Beat; Suzuki, Katsuhiko; Gaied, Sabri								Effects of brief periods of combined plyometric exercise and high intensity running training on the fitness performance of male U17 handball players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	3			801	811	17479541221090932	10.1177/17479541221090932			JUN 2023	2023	This study examined the effects of 8-week combined plyometric exercise and high intensity running training (combined training) on the performance fitness in male U17 handball players. Participants were randomly divided between experimental (E; n = 15; age: 16.5 +/- 0.4 years) and control (C; n = 13; age: 16.7 +/- 0.3 years) groups. The E group performed combined training (4 workshops) twice a week over 8 weeks. Each session lasted approximately 35 min. The C maintained regular in-season training. Before and after the combined training, both groups underwent repeated sprint ability (RSA), sprint performance (5m, 10m, 20m and 30m), change of direction test (Modified change-of-direction T-test (T-half)), vertical jump (squat jump (SJ), counter-movement jump (CMJ), counter-movement jump with aimed arms (CMJA)), horizontal jump (five-jump test (5JT)), strength (1-RM half squat), and 20-meter shuttle run. Group x time interaction showed significant increases on sprint performance (p < 0.01, 8.6%; p < 0.001, 7.3%; p < 0.05, 6.9%; and p < 0.01, 8.9% over distances of 5m, 10m, 20m and 30m respectively) in E relative to C. The T-half also showed significant gains for E (p < 0.05, 6.8%), as did vertical jumping (p < 0.01, 32.7%; p < 0.001, 32.6% and p < 0.001, 23% for SJ, CMJ and CMJA respectively) and horizontal jumping (p < 0.05, 13.3%) compared to C. Moreover, there were significant improvements of RSA and 20 m shuttle run in E compared to C. However, there were no significant differences in 1-RM half squat between groups. We conclude that the allocation of short periods of a combined training is effective in enhancing performance fitness and thus can be commended to male U17 Handball participants as a potentially useful component of their training.		[Gaamouri, Nawel; Hammami, Mehrez; Chelly, Mohamed Souhaiel; Gaied, Sabri] Univ La Manouba, Higher Inst Sport & Phys Educ Ksar Said, Res Unit UR17JS01 Sport Performance Hlth & Soc, Tunis, Tunisia; [Gaamouri, Nawel; Hammami, Mehrez; Chelly, Mohamed Souhaiel; Gaied, Sabri] Univ La Manouba, Higher Inst Sport & Phys Educ Ksar Said, Tunis, Tunisia; [Shephard, Roy J.] Univ Toronto, Fac Kinesiol & Phys Educ, Toronto, ON, Canada; [Knechtle, Beat] Univ Zurich, Inst Primary Care, Zurich, Switzerland; [Knechtle, Beat] Medbase St Gallen Vadianpl, Vadianstr 26, CH-9001 St Gallen, Switzerland; [Suzuki, Katsuhiko] Waseda Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Tokorozawa, Saitama 3591192, Japan; [Knechtle, Beat] Medbase St Gallen Vadianpl, Vadianstr 26, CH-9001 St Gallen, Switzerland								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000779318200001	42	Article; Article		
J	Perez-Castilla, Alejandro; Samozino, Pierre; Jukic, Ivan; Iglesias-Soler, Eliseo; Garcia-Ramos, Amador								The linear regression model provides the force-velocity relationship parameters with the highest reliability								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	12			2816	2835		10.1080/14763141.2022.2058992			DEC 1 2024	2024	An a-posteriori multicentre reliability study was conducted to compare the between-session reliability of the force-velocity relationship parameters (force-intercept [F0], velocity-intercept [v0], and maximum power [Pmax]) between different regression models during the bench press (BP) and bench press throw (BPT) exercises. Data from four and three studies were considered for the BP (n = 102) and BPT (n = 81) exercises, respectively. The force-velocity relationships were determined using five regression models: linear multiple-point, linear two-point, quadratic polynomial, hyperbolic, and exponential. All regression models provided F0 and Pmax with acceptable reliability (cut-off CV <= 9.45%; cut-off ICC >= 0.79) with the exceptions of F0 for the quadratic polynomial and hyperbolic models (BPT) and Pmax for the exponential model (BP and BPT). Only the linear multiple- and linear two-point models provided v0 with acceptable absolute reliability (cut-off CV <= 7.72%). Regardless of the exercise, the reliability of the three parameters was generally higher for the linear multiple- and two-point models compared to the other models (CVratio >= 1.22), and no significant differences were observed between multiple- and linear two-point models (CVratio <= 1.11). Linear regression models are recommended to maximise the reliability of the force-velocity relationship parameters during the BP and BPT exercises.		[Perez-Castilla, Alejandro; Garcia-Ramos, Amador] Univ Granada, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Granada, Spain; [Samozino, Pierre] Univ Savoie Mont BlancInter, Lab Human Movement Biol, Chambery, France; [Jukic, Ivan] Auckland Univ Technol, Sch Engn Comp & Math Sci, Auckland, New Zealand; [Iglesias-Soler, Eliseo] Univ A Coruna, Fac Sports Sci & Phys Educ, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Performance & Hlth Grp, La Coruna, Spain; [Garcia-Ramos, Amador] Univ Catolica Santisima Concepcion, Fac Educ, Dept Sports Sci & Phys Conditioning, Concepcion, Chile; [Perez-Castilla, Alejandro] Univ Granada, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Granada, Spain								8							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000777903200001	31	Article; Article		
J	Rose, Elizabeth; Hands, Beth; Parker, Helen								The Relationship Between Perceptions of Physical Self-Worth, Subdomain Importance, and Physical Fitness in Adolescents With Low Motor Competence: An Exploratory Study								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	2			383	390		10.1080/02701367.2021.1998306			APR 3 2023	2023	Purpose: Adolescent perceptions of their physical self-worth (PSW) and the component domains draw upon physical attributes, such as motor competence, physical fitness, and self-perceptions, which in turn enhance the desire to engage in physical activity. Whilst these relationships have been researched in populations with typical motor development, little is known of the interplay of these contributors to PSW with those with low motor competence (LMC). Even less is known of how importance placed on particular physical subdomains may be used by the adolescent with LMC to mitigate negative effects on their perceptions of PSW. Method: Thirty-four adolescents with low motor competence, 25 boys and 9 girls (M-age = 13.89 yrs, SD = 1.49), completed the McCarron Assessment of Neuromuscular Development (MAND), the Children's Physical Self-Perception Questionnaire (C-PSPP) and a range of physical fitness tests. Results: All self-perception subdomain score was lower than importance ratings. Physical fitness measures were also low but were not significantly associated with PSW. However, the higher importance scores relative to physical self-perceptions resulted in greater discrepancy scores in all subdomains. Conclusion: Adolescents with LMC have low PSW, and low self-perceptions relative to importance ratings for most physical self-subdomains. These discrepancies, rather than actual fitness, potentially reduce their motivation to be physically active.		[Rose, Elizabeth; Hands, Beth; Parker, Helen] Univ Notre Dame Australia, Fremantle, WA, Australia; [Hands, Beth] Univ Notre Dame Australia, Inst Hlth Res, 19 Mouat St,POB 1225, Fremantle, WA 6959, Australia								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000777100900001	46	Article; Article		
J	Nikooharf Salehi, Elahe; Jaydari Fard, Saeed; Jaberzadeh, Shapour								Mental Fatigue Impairs Postural Stability in Older Adults								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	2			401	408		10.1080/02701367.2021.1999892			APR 3 2023	2023	Purpose: Postural instability can increase the risk of a fall in older adults. In this study, the impact of mental fatigue on postural stability among healthy older adults was investigated. Method: Participants were randomly divided into two groups: experimental and control groups. Postural stability of all participants was tested using the Biodex Balance System (BBS) before and immediately after watching a 30-min documentary program (control group) or completing a 30-min Stroop task (experimental group). Subjective ratings of mental fatigue were measured before and after the Stroop task or watching documentary program. Results: The results indicated that experimental group revealed higher stability scores in the posttest compared to pretest (P >= 0.001). However, there were no significant differences for BBS scores between pre and posttest in control group (P = .688). In addition, posttest of subjective ratings of mental fatigue was significantly different between experimental and control groups. Finally, there was also evidence of an association between Visual analog scale and BBS scores in the experimental group (rs = 0.712, P = .002). Conclusions: Mental fatigue caused by Stroop task had a negative impact on postural stability in older adults. This may be due to reduction in attentional resources that was caused by mental fatigue. Thus, mental fatigue could be considered as a risk factor for increased risk of falls in older adults		[Nikooharf Salehi, Elahe] Univ Tehran, Tehran, Iran; [Jaydari Fard, Saeed] Univ Queensland, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [Jaberzadeh, Shapour] Monash Univ, Clayton, Vic, Australia; [Jaydari Fard, Saeed] Univ Queensland, Fac Humanities & Social Sci, Inst Social Sci Res, Brisbane, Qld 4072, Australia								9							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000777099700001	52	Article; Article		
J	McBurnie, Alistair J.; Parr, James; Kelly, David M.; Dos'Santos, Thomas								Multidirectional Speed in Youth Soccer Players: Programming Considerations and Practical Applications								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				44	2			10	32		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000657			APR 2022	2022	Multidirectional speed (MDS) can be defined as "the competency and capacity to accelerate, decelerate, change direction, and maintain speed in multiple directions and movements, within the context of sport-specific scenarios." The components of MDS are linear speed, change of direction speed, curvilinear speed, contextual speed, and agility. A MDS development framework is provided for the practitioner who considers the complexities of the growing athlete within a progressive sequence of skill learning and adaptation. Practical examples for each MDS component are provided and discussed within weekly microcycle examples that represent different stages of development for the youth athlete.		[McBurnie, Alistair J.; Parr, James; Kelly, David M.] Manchester United Football Club, Dept Football Med & Sci, AON Training Complex, Manchester, Lancs, England; [Dos'Santos, Thomas] Manchester Metropolitan Univ, Dept Sport & Exercise Sci, Musculoskeletal Sci & Sports Med Res Ctr, Manchester, Lancs, England; [McBurnie, Alistair J.] Manchester United Football Club, Dept Football Med & Sci, AON Training Complex, Manchester, Lancs, England								15							Sport Sciences	WOS:000774204600002	154	Article; Article		
J	Sempf, Felix; Thienes, Gerd								High-Intensity Functional Training for Firefighters								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				44	2			97	105		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000659			APR 2022	2022	Firefighters must complete a wide variety of tasks and face situations that are strenuous and physically demanding. Aerobic fitness, anaerobic capacity, muscular strength, and power are relevant for job performance, safety, and health. High-intensity functional training (HIFT) not only has the potential to improve both aerobic and anaerobic capacity but also strength and performance of common firefighter tasks. Here, we present a firefighter HIFT protocol which consists of exercises that mimic realistic tasks and demands.		[Sempf, Felix] Georg August Univ Gottingen, Inst Sportsci, Gottingen, Germany; [Thienes, Gerd] Univ Vechta, Inst Sportsci, Vechta, Germany; [Sempf, Felix] Georg August Univ Gottingen, Inst Sportsci, Gottingen, Germany								6							Sport Sciences	WOS:000774204600008	95	Article; Article		
J	Orr, Robin M.; Lockie, Robert; Milligan, Gemma; Lim, Cheryl; Dawes, Jay								Use of Physical Fitness Assessments in Tactical Populations								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				44	2			106	113		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000656			APR 2022	2022	Physical fitness assessments for tactical occupations (e.g., military, law enforcement, and emergency services) can include predictive tests of anaerobic power, cardiovascular fitness, muscular endurance, muscular power, strength, agility, and/or simulated occupational tasks. Not only can these tests be used to assess the ability of someone to undertake the job role but they can be used to determine injury risk, training failure, and/or general health. This review discusses different uses for physical fitness assessments and considerations for their use in tactical populations.		[Orr, Robin M.; Lockie, Robert; Dawes, Jay] Bond Univ, Tact Res Unit, Gold Coast, Australia; [Orr, Robin M.] Bond Univ, Fac Hlth Sci & Med, Gold Coast, Australia; [Lockie, Robert] Calif State Univ Fullerton, Ctr Sport Performance, Dept Kinesiol, Fullerton, CA USA; [Milligan, Gemma] Univ Portsmouth, Sch Sport Hlth & Exercise Sci, Portsmouth, Hants, England; [Lim, Cheryl] Ctr Excellence Soldier Performance, Soldier Dev Branch, Singapore, Singapore; [Dawes, Jay] Oklahoma State Univ, Sch Kinesiol Appl Hlth & Recreat, Stillwater, OK USA; [Orr, Robin M.] Bond Univ, Tact Res Unit, Gold Coast, Australia								41							Sport Sciences	WOS:000774204600009	103	Article; Article		
J	Pinheiro, Ryan; Szymanski, Stefan								All Runs Are Created Equal: Labor Market Efficiency in Major League Baseball								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				23	8			1046	1075		10.1177/15270025221085712			DEC 2022	2022	Moneyball (Lewis, 2003) claimed that data analytics enabled savvy operators to exploit inefficiencies in the market for baseball players. The economic analysis of Hakes and Sauer (2006) appeared to show that the publication of Moneyball represented a watershed, after which inefficiencies had been competed away. In both cases analysis focused on composite statistics such as on base percentage (OBP) and slugging percentage (SLG). This paper relies on a more structural approach, associated with the statistical analysis of Lindsey (1963) which identifies the run value of each individual event in a game. Using a dataset of every event in every game from 1996 to 2015, we show that run value of each event can be accurately calculated, as can the run value contribution of each player. We show that the compensation of free agents reliably reflects the run value contribution of each player, regardless of the source of those contributions (walks, singles, and home runs). We find this was true both before and after the publication of Moneyball, suggesting that the labor market for batters in Major League Baseball operated efficiently across our entire sample period.		[Pinheiro, Ryan; Szymanski, Stefan] Univ Michigan, Sch Kinesiol, Ann Arbor, MI 48109 USA; [Pinheiro, Ryan] Univ Michigan, Sch Kinesiol, Ann Arbor, MI 48109 USA								2							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000777673500001	34	Article; Article		
J	Brocherie, Franck; Cantamessi, Gregory; Millet, Gregoire P.; Woorons, Xavier								Effects of repeated-sprint training in hypoxia induced by voluntary hypoventilation on performance during ice hockey off-season								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	2			446	452	17479541221079531	10.1177/17479541221079531			APR 2023	2023	This study aimed to assess the effects of an off-season period of repeated-sprint training in hypoxia induced by voluntary hypoventilation at low lung volume (RSH-VHL) on off-ice repeated-sprint ability (RSA) in ice hockey players. Thirty-five high-level youth ice hockey players completed 10 sessions of running repeated sprints over a 5-week period, either with RSH-VHL (n = 16) or with unrestricted breathing (RSN, n = 19). Before (Pre) and after (Post) the training period, subjects performed two 40-m single sprints (to obtain the reference velocity (V-ref)) followed by a running RSA test (12 x 40 m all-out sprints with departure every 30 s). From Pre to Post, there was no change in V-ref or in the maximal velocity reached in the RSA test in both groups. In RSH-VHL, the mean velocity of the RSA test was higher (88.9 +/- 5.4 vs. 92.9 +/- 3.2% of V-ref; p < 0.01) and the percentage decrement score lower (11.1 +/- 5.2 vs. 7.1 +/- 3.3; p < 0.01) at Post than at Pre whereas no significant change occurred in the RSN group (89.6 +/- 3.3 vs. 91.3 +/- 1.9% of V-ref, p = 0.11; 10.4 +/- 3.2 vs. 8.7 +/- 2.3%; p = 0.13). In conclusion, five weeks of off-ice RSH-VHL intervention led to a significant 4% improvement in off-ice RSA performance. Based on previous findings showing larger effects after shorter intervention time, the dose-response dependent effect of this innovative approach remains to be investigated.		[Brocherie, Franck] French Inst Sport INSEP, Lab Sport Expertise & Performance EA 7370, Paris, France; [Cantamessi, Gregory; Millet, Gregoire P.] Univ Lausanne, Inst Sport Sci, Lausanne, Switzerland; [Woorons, Xavier] Univ Littoral Cote dOpale, Univ Lille, Unite Rech Pluridisciplinaire Sport Sante Soc, ULR 7369,URePSSS,Univ Artois, F-59000 Lille, France; [Woorons, Xavier] Assoc Res & Promot Hypoventilat Training ARPEH, Lille, France; [Woorons, Xavier] Fac Sci Sport & Educ Phys, 9 Rue Univ, F-59790 Ronchin, France								10							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000777714100001	39	Article; Article		
J	Secchi, Leonardo Luiz Barretti; Kamonseki, Danilo Harudy; Camargo, Paula Rezende; Mendonca, Luciana De Michelis								Is the isometric strength of the shoulder associated with functional performance tests in overhead athletes?								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				55				131	138		10.1016/j.ptsp.2022.03.007			MAY 2022	2022	Objective: To verify the association of the isometric strength of the shoulder external rotators (ER) and serratus anterior (SA) with the performance of functional tests CKCUEST, SMB-T, and USSP-T in overhead athletes. Design: Cross-sectional study. Participants: Eighty overhead athletes with no history of surgery in the upper and lower limbs and trunk in the past year, and no painful symptoms in the upper body during the physical assessment were included. Main outcome measures: Preseason assessment included isometric strength of shoulder ER and SA, and performance of the CKCUEST, SMB-T, and USSP-T. Multiple linear regression analysis was performed to identify if the isometric strength of the shoulder ER and SA could explain the performance during the tests after controlling for sex. Results: The isometric strength of SA was associated (p < 0.05) with the SMB-T and USSP-T with 4% of explain. The isometric strength of the SA was not associated (p > 0.05) with the CKCUEST. The isometric strength of the ER was not associated (p > 0.05) with any of the tests. Conclusion: The isometric strength of the SA predicted the SMB-T and USSP-T performance. Isometric strength of SA and shoulder ER was not associated with CKCUEST results in athletes overhead. (c) 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Secchi, Leonardo Luiz Barretti; Kamonseki, Danilo Harudy; Camargo, Paula Rezende; Mendonca, Luciana De Michelis] Univ Fed Sao Carlos UFSCar, Post Grad Program Phys Therapy, Lab Anal & Intervent Shoulder Complex, Sao Carlos, Brazil; [Mendonca, Luciana De Michelis] Univ Fed Minas Gerais UFMG, Sch Phys Educ Phys Therapy & Occupat Therapy, Phys Therapy Dept, Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil; [Mendonca, Luciana De Michelis] Univ Fed Minas Gerais, Dept Fisioterapia, Escola Educ Fis, Fisioterapia Terapia Ocupac, Presidente Antonio Carlos 6627,Campus Pampulha, BR-31270901 Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil								8							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000792877000017	46	Article; Article		
J	Ward, Phillip; Kim, Insook; Li, Weidong; Ko, Bomna; Iserbyt, Peter; Sinelnikov, Oleg; Curtner-Smith, Matt								The Role of Content Knowledge in Influencing Student Physical Activity, On-Task Behavior, and Skill Performance								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	2			322	330		10.1080/02701367.2021.1979186			APR 3 2023	2023	Purpose: The purpose of this study was to compare the impact of interventions aimed at improving teacher's content knowledge on students' MVPA, on-task behavior, and skill performance. Differences between treatment and comparison groups were further examined by skill level and gender. Method: We conducted a retroactive analysis of teacher and student data from two randomly controlled trials and one well-controlled quasi-experimental trial measuring MVPA, student performance in badminton, and on-task behavior in lessons. We used descriptive and ANOVA analyses to determine our results. Results: The data show statistically significant effects for student performance and MVPA, and statistically significant effects for on-task performance between groups. Effect sizes for student performance exceed 1SD. MVPA for two of the three studies exceeded the 50% of the lesson criterion. Data are reported for high, average and low skilled students for each variable. Conclusions: This is the first study to examine three important outcomes of physical education, namely skill performance, MVPA, and on-task behavior in one investigation. Our results show that multiple objectives in physical education can be achieved. A strength of the study is that we did not sample any of our variables. The data represent a complete picture of every trial, and continuous interval recording for MVPA and on-task variables occurring in each lesson.		[Ward, Phillip; Li, Weidong] Ohio State Univ, Columbus, OH 43210 USA; [Kim, Insook] Kent State Univ, Kent, OH 44242 USA; [Ko, Bomna] East Carolina Univ, Greenville, NC 27858 USA; [Iserbyt, Peter] Katholieke Univ Leuven, Leuven, Belgium; [Sinelnikov, Oleg; Curtner-Smith, Matt] Univ Alabama, Tuscaloosa, AL USA; [Ward, Phillip] Ohio State Univ, Dept Human Sci, PAES Bldg,Room A256,305 Annie & John Glenn Ave, Columbus, OH 43210 USA								12							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000774883400001	34	Article; Article		
J	Matsuda, Tomoka; Ishikawa, Akira; Kanno, Moe; Ogata, Hazuki; Gam, Hyunjun; Funaki, Akiko; Ikegami, Nodoka; Yamada, Mizuki; Sakamaki-Sunaga, Mikako								The Effect of Co-Ingestion of Carbohydrate with Milk after Exercise in Healthy Women: Study Considering the Menstrual Cycle								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				21	2			191	199		10.52082/jssm.2022.191			JUN 2022	2022	This study aimed to assess the effects of co-ingestion of carbohydrate with milk (MILK) and isocaloric carbohydrate beverage (CHO) on post-exercise recovery and subsequent exercise capacity, considering the menstrual cycle. This study included 12 women with regular menstrual cycles who completed four test days, which started with glycogen-depleting exercise using a cycle ergometer in the early follicular phase (EF) and late follicular phase (LF), followed by 240 min of recovery from the ingestion of 200 mL of CHO or MILK every 30 min immediately after the exercise (POST0) until 210 min post-exercise. After 240 min, participants performed an exercise capacity test. Blood samples and breathing gas samples were collected before the exercise (PRE), POST0, and 120 (POST120) and 240 min after the end of exercise (POST240) to determine the concentrations of estradiol, progesterone, blood glucose, blood lactate, free fatty acid (FFA), and insulin and the respiratory exchange ratio, fat oxidation, and carbohydrate oxidation. The exercise time at exercise capacity test was not significantly different in terms of menstrual cycle phases and recovery beverages ingested. However, there was a significant positive correlation between the exercise capacity test and area under the curve (AUC) of FFA concentrations from POST0 to POST240 in each group (EF + CHO, p < 0.05; LF + CHO, p < 0.05; EF + MILK, p < 0.01; and LF + MILK, p < 0.05). The AUC of FFA from POST120 to POST240 showed no difference between EF (CHO and MILK) and LF (CHO and MILK). However, the AUC of FFA concentrations from POST120 to POST240 was significantly greater in MILK (EF and LF) than that in CHO (EF and LF) (p < 0.05). In active women, circulating substrates and hormone concentrations during short recovery post-exercise are not affected by the menstrual cycle. However, MILK may affect circulating substrates during recovery and the exercise capacity after recovery.		[Matsuda, Tomoka; Ishikawa, Akira; Kanno, Moe; Gam, Hyunjun; Funaki, Akiko; Yamada, Mizuki] Nippon Sport Sci Univ, Grad Sch Hlth & Sport Sci, Tokyo, Japan; [Matsuda, Tomoka] Japan Soc Promot Sci, Tokyo, Japan; [Ogata, Hazuki; Ikegami, Nodoka; Sakamaki-Sunaga, Mikako] Nippon Sport Sci Univ, Dept Exercise Physiol, Tokyo, Japan; [Funaki, Akiko] Teikyo Univ Sci, Depertment Judo Therapy, Yamanashi, Japan; [Matsuda, Tomoka] Nippon Sport Sci Univ, Grad Sch Hlth & Sport Sci, Tokyo, Japan; [Matsuda, Tomoka] Japan Soc Promot Sci, Tokyo, Japan								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:000787564300001	43	Article; Article		
J	Gabriel, Anna; Paternoster, Florian Kurt; Konrad, Andreas; Horstmann, Thomas; Pohl, Torsten								Comparison between the Original- and a Standardized Version of a Physical Assessment Test for the Dorsal Chain- A Cohort-Based Cross Sectional Study								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				21	2			182	190		10.52082/jssm.2022.182			JUN 2022	2022	This cohort-based cross-sectional study compares the original (OV) and a newly developed standardized version (SV) of the Bunkie Test, a physical test used to assess the dorsal chain muscles. Twenty-three participants (13 females, 10 males; median age of 26 +/- 3 years) performed the test, a reverse plank, with one foot on a stool and the contralateral leg lifted. In the SV, the position of the pelvis and the foot were predefined. The test performance time (s) and surface electromyography (sEMG) signals of the dorsal chain muscles were recorded. We performed a median power frequency (MPF) analysis, using short-time Fourier transformation, and calculated the MPF/time linear regression slope. We compared the slopes of the linear regression analysis (between legs) and the performance times (between the OV and SV) with the Wilcoxon test. Performance times did not differ between SV and OV for either the dominant (p = 0.28) or non-dominant leg (p = 0.08). Linear regression analysis revealed a negative slope for the muscles of the tested leg and contralateral erector spinae, with a significant difference between the biceps femoris of the tested (-0.91 +/- 1.08) and contralateral leg (0.01 +/- 1.62) in the SV (p = 0.004). The sEMG showed a clearer pattern in the SV than in the OV. Hence, we recommend using the SV to assess the structures of the dorsal chain of the tested leg and contralateral back.		[Gabriel, Anna; Horstmann, Thomas; Pohl, Torsten] Tech Univ Munich, Conservat & Rehabil Orthoped, Munich, Germany; [Paternoster, Florian Kurt; Konrad, Andreas] Tech Univ Munich, Biomech Sports, Munich, Germany; [Konrad, Andreas] Graz Univ, Inst Human Movement Sci Sport & Hlth, Graz, Austria; [Gabriel, Anna] Tech Univ Munich, Conservat & Rehabil Orthoped, Munich, Germany								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:000779562900001	41	Article; Article		
J	Teng, Xianzhong; Bao, Zheshi								Factors affecting users' stickiness of fitness apps: an empirical study based on the S-O-R perspective								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				23	4			823	840		10.1108/IJSMS-06-2021-0123			AUG 19 2022	2022	Purpose Despite fitness applications (apps) are increasingly downloaded by smartphone users in recent years, the usage behavior after initial adoption often lasts for a short period of time for most users. The purpose of this paper is to explore factors affecting stickiness of fitness app and then indicate how to retain existing users. Design/methodology/approach A research model was developed based on stimulus-organism-response (S-O-R) model. Using the data collected from 231 fitness app users through an online survey, the established model was empirically assessed by structural equation modeling (SEM). Findings The results show that human-to-information interaction and human-to-human interaction as environmental stimuli affect individuals' internal state, including social comparison and perception of fitness self-management, which consequently influence the stickiness of fitness apps. Originality/value The study provides new insights into the mechanism regarding why users are willing to continuously use fitness apps. Moreover, the understanding of social comparison among users in such process was also deepened.		[Teng, Xianzhong] Hohai Univ, Sch Business, Nanjing, Peoples R China; [Bao, Zheshi] Nanjing Univ Finance & Econ, Sch Business Adm, Nanjing, Peoples R China; [Bao, Zheshi] Nanjing Univ Finance & Econ, Sch Business Adm, Nanjing, Peoples R China								17							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000776566600001	66	Article; Article		
J	Vasavada, Kinjal; Ross, Keir Alexander; Lott, Ariana; Shankar, Dhruv; Marulanda, David; Mojica, Edward S.; Carter, Cordelia W.; Borowski, Lauren; Gonzalez-Lomas, Guillem								Characterizing femoroacetabular impingement in professional Nordic Skiers								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				51	3			285	290		10.1080/00913847.2022.2056770			MAY 4 2023	2023	Objective Studies have shown a high prevalence of femoroacetabular impingement (FAI) among elite athletes yet there is a paucity of data on FAI in Nordic skiers. The purpose of this study was to determine the prevalence of radiographic FAI in professional Nordic Combined Skiers and Ski jumpers compared to controls and assess functional outcomes including hip range of motion (ROM) and pain in patients with radiographic evidence of FAI compared to those without it. Methods A cohort of elite Nordic Skiers underwent medical history, physical examination, and pelvic radiographs at their visit with a fellowship-trained sports medicine physician. On pelvis radiographs, Alpha angle>55 degrees was deemed cam-positive, and positive crossover signs, Tonnis<0, or LCEA>40 were deemed pincer positive. Further stratification was performed by sex, ski event type, hip pain, presence of cam lesions, and presence of pincer lesions. Spearman correlation matrix was performed to measure the association between radiographic measurements and ROM. Results Nineteen Nordic skiers and nineteen age, sex, and BMI matched controls were included in the study. There were no significant differences in age, sex, BMI, and hip pain between groups. While Nordic skiers demonstrated decreased ROM bilaterally on external rotation compared to controls, skiers had larger ROM bilaterally on extension, abduction, adduction compared to controls. Skiers were significantly more likely to have bilateral crossover sign and alpha angles>55 compared to controls. Subgroup analysis showed that Cam positive patients had higher flexion and adduction ROM and pincer positive patients had significantly higher flexion and abduction ROM compared to patients without cam and pincer lesions respectively. Patients with hip pain had significantly lower right hip abduction ROM compared to patients without hip pain. No significant correlations were seen between radiographic measurements and ROM. Conclusion Similar to other elite 'hip heavy' sport athletes, Nordic skiers gave a notably higher prevalence of radiographic cam and pincer type morphology and significantly higher ROM compared to nonathletic controls. Clinicians evaluating Nordic skiers should be aware of these baseline findings with respect to a possible elevated long-term risk of symptomatic FAI in these athletes as well as other conditions related to radiographic FAI.		[Vasavada, Kinjal; Ross, Keir Alexander; Lott, Ariana; Shankar, Dhruv; Marulanda, David; Mojica, Edward S.; Carter, Cordelia W.; Borowski, Lauren; Gonzalez-Lomas, Guillem] NYU, Dept Orthoped Surg, Sch Med, New York, NY USA; [Vasavada, Kinjal] NYU, Langone Orthopaed Hosp, 333 E 38th St,4th Floor, New York, NY 10003 USA								4							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000774700600001	35	Article; Article		
J	Bastiaansen, Bram J. C.; Vegter, Riemer J. K.; Wilmes, E.; de Ruiter, Cornelis J.; Lemmink, Koen A. P. M.; Brink, Michel S.								Biomechanical Load Quantification Using a Lower Extremity Inertial Sensor Setup During Football Specific Activities								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2022.2051596				2022	Training load monitoring systems in football do not focus on lower extremities and therefore potentially neglect important information to optimise performance or reduce injury risk. The current study aims to present joint and segment angular accelerations as novel indicators to quantify lower extremity biomechanical load measured by a new inertial sensor setup. Relationships were explored with commonly used whole-body training load indicators using principal component analysis (PCA). Sixteen male amateur football players performed a linear sprint and an agility T-test. An inertial sensor setup, and local position measurement system were used to collect training load data. Hip Load, Knee Load, Thigh Load and Shank Load were introduced to quantify lower extremity biomechanical load. Three principal components were identified for both tests, explaining 91% and 86% of the variance. The indicators for the lower extremities contributed to the second principal component for both tests and provide distinct information compared to whole-body load indicators. The results show the potential to use an inertial sensor setup combined with common monitoring systems to evaluate training load, which may help optimise future performance and reduce injury risk. These relationships should be further examined during other football specific activities such as shooting or jumping.		[Bastiaansen, Bram J. C.; Vegter, Riemer J. K.; Lemmink, Koen A. P. M.; Brink, Michel S.] Univ Groningen, Univ Med Ctr Groningen, Ctr Human Movement Sci, Groningen, Netherlands; [Wilmes, E.; de Ruiter, Cornelis J.] Vrije Univ Amsterdam, Fac Behav & Movement Sci, Dept Human Movement Sci, Amsterdam Movement Sci, NL-1081 BT Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Bastiaansen, Bram J. C.] Univ Groningen, Univ Med Ctr Groningen, Ctr Human Movement Sci, Groningen, Netherlands								10							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000773792700001	35	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Noll, Roger G.								Sports Economics on Trial: Alston v. NCAA								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				23	6			826	845	15270025221078504	10.1177/15270025221078504			AUG 2022	2022	The Supreme Court's decision in NCAA v. Alston already has had profound effects on the governance of college sports. Despite the narrow scope of the relief ordered in Alston, the opinion invites more challenges to NCAA rules that restrict compensation of athletes. Within months after Alston was decided, many athletes already are substantially better off financially, and the NCAA has delegated regulation of compensation of athletes to its conferences and divisions. Moreover, the case represents an intellectual victory for sports economics in that decades of research in the field formed the foundation for the Court's opinion.		[Noll, Roger G.] Stanford Univ, Dept Econ, Stanford, CA 94305 USA; [Noll, Roger G.] Stanford Univ, Dept Econ, Stanford, CA 94305 USA								2							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000776564200001	24	Article; Article		
J	Teoldo da Costa, Israel; de Freitas Silvino, Marcos Paulo								Analysis of tactical behavior in full- and small-sided games: Comparing professional and youth academy athletes to enhance player development in soccer								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	1			132	142	17479541221074992	10.1177/17479541221074992			FEB 2023	2023	The present study aims to compare the tactical behavior of youth academy and professional players, in order to ascertain the contribution of full- and small-sided games for the development process. One hundred and eighty individuals were selected from three age groups (U-8, U-10 and U-12). A competition was held in which all teams faced each other once in each format (Full- and Small-Sided Games). In addition, 9 matches of the 2018 Brazilian Championship were analyzed. The paired t tests, Wilcoxon and Mann-Whitney tests was performed to the comparison between the tactical behavior of youth academy players in each game format with the professional players (p < 0.05). Youth academy matches generated more and shorter offensive sequences, interactions were less frequent and less variable, and players cooperated less with one another. In the small-sided game, specifically, there was a demand for ball circulation in terms of velocity and amplitude similar to that of professional matches. Elements were found that support the need to use small-sided games in training, as it provides similar stimuli to what players will find in the professional category in the future. The speed and width of ball circulation, a large number of shots on goal, and the constant exchanges of ball possession - which helps in the development of cooperative and oppositional relationships between the phases and moments of the game - are enough elements to sustain that the game settings discussed here are beneficial for player development.		[Teoldo da Costa, Israel; de Freitas Silvino, Marcos Paulo] Univ Fed Vicosa, Dept Phys Educ, Ctr Res & Studies Soccer, Vicosa, MG, Brazil; [Teoldo da Costa, Israel] Univ Fed Vicosa Minas Gerais, Dept Educ Fis, Ave Peter Henry Rolfs S-N,Campus Univ, BR-36570900 Vicosa, MG, Brazil								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000776634800001	43	Article; Article		
J	Myre, Maxine; Glenn, Nicole M.; Berry, Tanya R.								Experiences of Size Inclusive Physical Activity Settings Among Women With Larger Bodies								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	2			351	360		10.1080/02701367.2021.1983515			APR 3 2023	2023	Purpose: Size inclusive physical activity settings may help mitigate the impact of physical activity-related weight stigma. In this interpretive description study, we aimed to understand how women with larger bodies experienced size inclusive physical activity settings. The study was informed by a settings-based approach to health promotion. Method: We interviewed nine women with larger bodies who participated in size inclusive physical activity and used an inductive approach to analyze the data. Findings: At the individual level, size inclusion was experienced as an enhancement of well-being, self-worth, and belonging. This was closely tied to the interpersonal level, whereby weight-neutral practices used by fitness instructors and lack of judgment from other exercisers contributed to experiences of size inclusion. At the organizational level, the organization's culture, marketing, programs, and physical spaces could enhance or limit inclusion and participation. However, weight stigma was prevalent in women's experiences outside the physical activity setting. Conclusion: We provide recommendations to improve size inclusion in physical activity settings.		[Myre, Maxine] Univ Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Glenn, Nicole M.; Berry, Tanya R.] Univ Alberta, Edmonton, AB, Canada; [Myre, Maxine] Univ Calgary, Werklund Sch Educ, Calgary, AB T2N 1N4, Canada								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000773978900001	60	Article; Article		
J	Vingren, J. L.; Boyett, J. C.; Lee, E. C.; Levitt, D. E.; Luk, H. Y.; McDermott, B. P.; Munoz, C. X.; Ganio, M. S.; Armstrong, L. E.; Hill, D. W.								A Single Dose of Ibuprofen Impacts IL-10 Response to 164-km Road Cycling in the Heat								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	2			344	350		10.1080/02701367.2021.1981539			APR 3 2023	2023	Purpose: The purpose was to determine the effect of a single-dose prophylactic ibuprofen use before a 164-km road cycling event in high ambient temperature on the circulating cytokine and leukocyte responses. Methods: Twenty-three men (53 +/- 8 y, 172.0 +/- 22.0 cm, 85.1 +/- 12.8 kg, 19.6 +/- 4.4% body fat) completed a 164-km self-paced recreational road cycling event in a hot, humid, sunny environment (WBGT = 29.0 +/- 2.9 degrees C) after consuming 600 mg of ibuprofen (n = 13) or a placebo (n = 10). Blood samples were obtained one to two hours before (PRE) and immediately after (POST) the event, and analyzed for concentrations of circulating cytokines interleukins (IL)-1 beta, IL-2, IL-4, IL-5, IL-6, IL-7, IL-8, IL-10, IL-12, IL-13, GM-CSF, IFN-gamma, and TNF-alpha and leukocytes (total leukocytes, granulocytes, monocytes, and lymphocytes). Results: Event completion time was 400.2 +/- 74.8 min. Concentrations of all cytokines (except IL-1 beta, IL-2, IL-5, IL-12, GM-CSF, and IFN-gamma) and of all leukocyte subsets increased from PRE to POST. Ibuprofen ingestion attenuated the increase in IL-10 (86% increase with Ibuprofen; 270% increase with placebo). Conclusions: Consuming 600 mg of Ibuprofen prior to a 164-km road cycling event in a hot-humid environment attenuates exercise-induced increases in the concentration of the anti-inflammatory cytokine IL-10, but does not alter the effect of the exercise event on concentrations of other circulating cytokines or leukocyte subset concentrations.		[Vingren, J. L.; Boyett, J. C.; Levitt, D. E.; Luk, H. Y.; Hill, D. W.] Univ North Texas, Denton, TX 76203 USA; [Lee, E. C.; Armstrong, L. E.] Univ Connecticut, Storrs, CT USA; [Luk, H. Y.] Texas Tech Univ, Lubbock, TX 79409 USA; [McDermott, B. P.; Ganio, M. S.] Univ Arkansas, Fayetteville, AR 72701 USA; [Munoz, C. X.] Univ Hartford, Hartford, CT 06117 USA; [Vingren, J. L.] Univ North Texas, Dept Kinesiol, Hlth Promot & Recreat, 1155 Union Circle 310769, Denton, TX 76203 USA								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000780599700001	40	Article; Article		
J	Lum, Danny; Barbosa, Tiago M.; Aziz, Abdul Rashid; Balasekaran, Govindasamy								Effects of Isometric Strength and Plyometric Training on Running Performance: A Randomized Controlled Study								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	1			263	271		10.1080/02701367.2021.1969330			JAN 2 2023	2023	Purpose: The aim of the study was to compare the effects of isometric strength (IST) and plyometric training (PT) on endurance running performance. Methods: Twenty-six endurance runners (18 males and 8 females; age 36 +/- 6 years, stature 1.69 +/- 0.05 m body mass 61.6 +/- 8.0 kg, VO2max 50.4 +/- 5.8 ml center dot kg(-1)center dot min(-1)) completed the countermovement jump (CMJ), isometric mid-thigh pull (IMTP), 2.4 km run time trial (2.4kmTT), running economy test (RE) and a graded exercise test measures at baseline. They were then randomly assigned to three groups, the control (CON), PT or IST group, and completed the circuit, plyometric or isometric training, respectively, twice a week for 6 weeks, while still continuing to perform their planned running training. They then completed the same set of measures performed at baseline post-intervention. Results: Significant time x group interactions and time main effect were observed for 2.4kmTT (P = .002, n(p)(2) = .45 and P < .001, n( )(2)=0.72), maximal aerobic speed (MAS) (P = .006, n(p)(2) = .39), CMJ height (P < .001, n(p)(2) = .55) and IMTP relative peak force (P = .001, n(p)(2) = .50) in favor of PT and IST. Significant main effect for time was observed for 2.4kmTT (P < .001, n(p)(2) = .72), RE (P = .048, n(p)(2) = .17), VO2max (P = .047, n(p)(2) = .18), MAS (P < .001, n(p)(2) = .63), CMJ height (P < .001, n(p)(2) = .51) and IMTP relative peak force (P < .001, n(p)(2) = .58). Conclusion: In conclusion, both PT and IST were similarly effective at enhancing running endurance performance. However, IST resulted in greater improvement to RE.		[Lum, Danny; Aziz, Abdul Rashid] Singapore Sport Inst, Singapore, Singapore; [Lum, Danny; Barbosa, Tiago M.; Balasekaran, Govindasamy] Nanyang Technol Univ, Singapore, Singapore; [Barbosa, Tiago M.] Polytech Inst Braganca, Braganca, Portugal; [Barbosa, Tiago M.] Hlth & Human Dev CIDESD, Vila Real, Portugal; [Lum, Danny] Nanyang Technol Univ, Natl Inst Educ, Phys Educ & Sports Sci, 3 Stadium Dr, Singapore 397630, Singapore								25							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000772775900001	39	Article; Article		
J	Charbonneau, Eve; Bailly, Francois; Begon, Mickael								Optimal forward twisting pike somersault without self-collision								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				22	2			316	333		10.1080/14763141.2022.2052348			FEB 1 2023	2023	In acrobatic sports, twisting fast before piking allows athletes to enlarge their scoring potential. Since planning the arm and hip movements to twist fast is unintuitive, optimal control appears as a powerful and risk-free tool. To our knowledge, predictive simulations of human motion did not include self-collision avoidance constraints resulting potentially in unrealistic solutions. Our objective was to generate innovative and realistic twisting techniques for forward somersaults ending in pike position by solving an optimal control problem including non-collision constraints. Optimal techniques for one, two, or three twists before piking were generated by minimising the duration of the twisting and piking phases. The model was composed of five segments with one degree of freedom at the chest and two at the hips and shoulders. We explored local minima using a multi-start approach. Solutions were further analysed to assess the impact of non-collision constraints, the segments' contribution to twist creation, and their stability. For each desired number of twists, one relevant solution was chosen. Optimisation showed that trampolinists could attempt new acrobatics: forward triple twisting somersault ending in pike position. This research also shows that non-collision constraints strongly modify the optimal techniques without impairing significantly their performance.		[Charbonneau, Eve] Univ Montreal, Fac Med, Dept Pharmacol & Physiol, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Bailly, Francois] Univ Montpellier, Natl Res Inst Informat & Automat, Montpellier, France; [Begon, Mickael] Univ Montreal, Fac Med, Sch Kinesiol & Phys Act Sci, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Charbonneau, Eve] Univ Montreal, Fac Med, Dept Pharmacol & Physiol, Montreal, PQ, Canada								4							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000772304600001	20	Article; Article		
J	Hogberg, Johan; Bergentoft, Emma; Piussi, Ramana; Wernbom, Mathias; Beischer, Susanne; Simonson, Rebecca; Senorski, Carl; Thomee, Roland; Senorski, Eric Hamrin								Persistent knee flexor strength deficits identified through the NordBord eccentric test not seen with "gold standard" isokinetic concentric testing during the first year after anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction with a hamstring tendon autograft								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				55				119	124		10.1016/j.ptsp.2022.03.004			MAY 2022	2022	Objective: To investigate the recovery of knee flexor muscle strength evaluated with a Nordic hamstring eccentric test (NordBord) compared with an isokinetic concentric test (Biodex) during the first year after anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) reconstruction using a hamstring tendon autograft. Design: Prospective observational registry study; level of evidence, 3. Setting: Primary care. Participants: Cross-sectional data of 127 patients (45% women, mean age 24.9 +/- 8.1 years) were extracted from a rehabilitation outcome registry at 10 weeks and 4, 8 and 12 months after ACL reconstruction with hamstring tendon autograft. Main outcome measures: All patients performed a concentric Biodex test, and an eccentric NordBord test on the same occasion or within seven days of the concentric test. The primary outcome was the limb symmetry index between the respective tests. Results: A greater knee flexor symmetry deficit was observed with the eccentric test compared with the concentric test at all follow-ups with clinically relevant differences at 4 (11.8% +/- 12.7% [CI 7.8-15.8%]) and 8 months (13.4 +/- 11.9 [CI 9.7-17.2%]. Conclusion: The eccentric NordBord test was able to identify clinically relevant deficits in knee flexor strength symmetry that were not identified by gold standard isokinetic concentric testing during the first year among patients treated with an ACL reconstruction using a hamstring tendon autograft. (c) 2022 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).		[Hogberg, Johan; Piussi, Ramana; Wernbom, Mathias; Beischer, Susanne; Simonson, Rebecca; Senorski, Carl; Thomee, Roland; Senorski, Eric Hamrin] Sportrehab Sports Med Clin, Stampgatan 14, SE-41101 Gothenburg, Sweden; [Bergentoft, Emma] Sports Med Clin, IFK Kliniken Rehab, Topelsgatan 7, SE-41655 Gothenburg, Sweden; [Hogberg, Johan; Piussi, Ramana; Wernbom, Mathias; Beischer, Susanne; Simonson, Rebecca; Thomee, Roland; Senorski, Eric Hamrin] Univ Gothenburg, Sahlgrenska Acad, Inst Neurosci & Physiol, Unit Physiotherapy,Dept Hlth & Rehabil, Box 455, SE-40530 Gothenburg, Sweden; [Hogberg, Johan; Piussi, Ramana; Simonson, Rebecca; Senorski, Eric Hamrin] Sahlgrenska Sports Med Ctr, Gothenburg, Sweden; [Wernbom, Mathias; Thomee, Roland] Halmstad Univ, Rydberg Lab Appl Sci, Box 823, SE-30118 Halmstad, Sweden; [Senorski, Eric Hamrin] Sportrehab Sports Med Clin, Stampgatan 14, SE-41101 Gothenburg, Sweden								18							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000792877000015	36	Article; Article		
J	Souza, Victor Alvino; Barreto, Renan Vieira; Mantovani, Guilherme Beneduzzi; Greco, Camila Coelho; Denadai, Benedito Sergio; Nosaka, Kazunori; Rabello Lima, Leonardo Coelho								Effects of Loaded Plyometric Exercise on Post-Activation Performance Enhancement of Countermovement Jump in Sedentary Men								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	1			194	201		10.1080/02701367.2021.1954586			JAN 2 2023	2023	Purpose: Explosive performance is increased right after performing loaded resistance exercise, which is known as post-activation performance enhancement (PAPE). Method: We investigated the effects of a plyometric exercise (PLYO) consisting of five sets of six drop-jumps from a 52-cm platform with a load corresponding to 20% body mass on changes in countermovement jump (CMJ) height in sedentary young men. Eleven young nonresistance trained men (19.6 +/- 1.8 y, 69 +/- 9 kg, 1.76 +/- 0.08 m) who showed more than 4% increase in CMJ height at 4 min after five back squats with five-repetition maximum load participated in the study. Their responses to the back squat exercise were examined before (baseline) and 15 minutes, 24 and 48 hours post-PLYO. Exercise-induced muscle damage markers (maximal voluntary contraction torque [MVC], and quadriceps muscle soreness) were assessed at baseline, 15 minutes, 24 and 48 hours following PLYO. Results: MVC torque decreased (p < .05) at 15 minutes post-PLYO (-15.1 +/- 9.7%) but returned to the baseline at 24 hours post-PLYO. Muscle soreness developed (p < .05) at 48 hours (21.0 +/- 20.3 mm) after PLYO, indicating minor muscle damage. CMJ height increased (p < .05) after the five squats at baseline (7.6 +/- 3.8%) indicating PAPE, but no such increase was found at 15 minutes, 24 and 48 hours after PLYO. However, CMJ height before the squat exercise was greater (p < .05) at 24 (5.9 +/- 7.0%) and 48 hours post-PLYO (9.1 +/- 8.5%) than the baseline. Conclusions: These results showed that PAPE disappeared after PLYO that induced minor muscle damage, but CMJ height increased at 24-48 hours in the recovery from PLYO exhibiting a priming effect.		[Souza, Victor Alvino; Barreto, Renan Vieira; Mantovani, Guilherme Beneduzzi; Greco, Camila Coelho; Denadai, Benedito Sergio; Rabello Lima, Leonardo Coelho] Sao Paulo State Univ, Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil; [Denadai, Benedito Sergio] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Florianopolis, SC, Brazil; [Nosaka, Kazunori] Edith Cowan Univ, Churchlands, WA, Australia; [Rabello Lima, Leonardo Coelho] Sao Paulo State Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Human Performance Lab, Av 24-A,1515, Bela Vista, Rio Claro, Brazil								8							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000771822400001	35	Article; Article		
J	Hall, Elliott C. R.; Larruskain, Jon; Gil, Susana M.; Lekue, Josean A.; Baumert, Philipp; Rienzi, Edgardo; Moreno, Sacha; Tannure, Marcio; Murtagh, Conall F.; Ade, Jack D.; Squires, Paul; Orme, Patrick; Anderson, Liam; Whitworth-Turner, Craig M.; Morton, James P.; Drust, Barry; Williams, Alun G.; Erskine, Robert M.								Injury risk is greater in physically mature<i> versus</i> biologically younger male soccer players from academies in different countries								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				55				111	118		10.1016/j.ptsp.2022.03.006			MAY 2022	2022	Objectives: To investigate if maturity status was associated with injury risk in male academy soccer players. Design: Prospective cohort surveillance study. Setting: Professional soccer academies. Participants: 501 players (aged 9-23 years) from eight academies in England, Spain, Uruguay and Brazil. Main outcome measures: Players were grouped by maturity offset as pre-peak height velocity (PHV), circa-PHV, post-PHV or adult. Injury prevalence proportion (IPP) and days missed were recorded for one season per player, with training/match exposure recorded in a sub-sample (n = 166). Results: IPP for all injuries combined increased with advancing maturity, with circa-PHV (p = 0.032), post-PHV (p < 0.001) and adult (p < 0.001) higher than pre-PHV. IPP was higher in post-PHV and adult than pre-PHV for non-contact (p = 0.001 and p = 0.012), soft-tissue (both p < 0.001), non-contact soft tissue (p < 0.001 and p = 0.005), muscle (both p < 0.001), thigh (both p < 0.001), ankle (p = 0.035 and p = 0.007) and hamstring injuries (p = 0.041 and p = 0.017). Ligament/tendon IPP was greater in adult versus pre-PHV (p = 0.002). IPP for growth-related injuries was lower in post-PHV than pre-PHV (p = 0.039). Injury incidence rates (n = 166) exhibited similar patterns to IPP in the full cohort. Conclusions: Injury patterns were similar between post-PHV and adult academy players but, crucially, relatively more of these groups suffered injuries compared to pre-and circa-PHV (except growth-related injuries). (c) 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Hall, Elliott C. R.; Baumert, Philipp; Murtagh, Conall F.; Whitworth-Turner, Craig M.; Morton, James P.; Erskine, Robert M.] Liverpool John Moores Univ, Sch Sport & Exercise Sci, Liverpool, Merseyside, England; [Larruskain, Jon; Lekue, Josean A.] Med Serv, Athlet Club, Lezama, Spain; [Gil, Susana M.] Univ Basque Country UPV EHU, Fac Med & Nursing, Dept Physiol, Leioa, Spain; [Baumert, Philipp] Tech Univ Munich, Dept Sport & Hlth Sci, Munich, Germany; [Rienzi, Edgardo; Moreno, Sacha] Club Atletico Penarol, Estadio Campe Siglo, Montevideo, Uruguay; [Tannure, Marcio] Clube Regatas Flamengo, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil; [Murtagh, Conall F.; Ade, Jack D.; Squires, Paul] Liverpool Football Club, Liverpool, Merseyside, England; [Orme, Patrick] Bristol City Football Club, Bristol, Avon, England; [Anderson, Liam; Drust, Barry] Univ Birmingham, Sch Sport Exercise & Rehabil Sci, Birmingham, W Midlands, England; [Williams, Alun G.] Manchester Metroplitan Univ, Manchester Metropolitan Univ Inst Sport, Dept Sport & Exercise Sci, Manchester, Lancs, England; [Williams, Alun G.] Swansea Univ, Appl Sports Sci Technol & Med Res Ctr STEM, Fac Sci & Engn, Swansea, W Glam, Wales; [Williams, Alun G.; Erskine, Robert M.] UCL, Inst Sport Exercise & Hlth, London, England; [Erskine, Robert M.] Liverpool John Moores Univ, Sch Sport & Exercise Sci, Liverpool, Merseyside, England								19							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000792877000014	32	Article; Article		
J	Ridge, Sarah T.; McLean, Dallin; Bruening, Dustin; Richards, Jim								Up in the air: the efficacy of weighted gloves in figure skating jumps								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2022.2046844				2022	Successful performance of difficult, multi-revolution jumps is a critical aspect of singles and pairs figure skating. Key determinants of quality jumps include jump height, angular momentum at takeoff (L_Body(TO)) and total body moment of inertia (I_Body). The purpose of this study was to determine the effect of weighted gloves on L_Body(TO) of figure skating jumps. Kinematic data was collected from thirteen skaters during on-ice testing sessions conducted before and after one week of training with weighted gloves. A one-way repeated measures ANOVA was used to compare metrics from jumps performed pre-training without weights (PreNW), post-training without weights (PostNW) and post-training with weights (PostW). No significant differences were found between kinematics in PreNW and PostNW. Skaters did not pull their arms in as tightly while wearing the weighted gloves (distance from the wrists to the axis of rotation were 13.6% and 12.1% greater in PostW than PreNW and PreW, respectively). A post hoc simulation showed that the added mass affected I_Body in the air. While theoretical evidence supports the use of weighted gloves in figure skating jumps, compensations negated their effectiveness in jumps the skaters could already perform well. Optimal implementation may be when skaters are learning new jumps.		[Ridge, Sarah T.; McLean, Dallin; Bruening, Dustin] Brigham Young Univ, Dept Exercise Sci, Provo, UT 84602 USA; [Richards, Jim] Univ Delaware, Kinesiol & Appl Physiol, Newark, DE USA; [Ridge, Sarah T.] Brigham Young Univ, Dept Exercise Sci, Provo, UT 84602 USA								9							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000771227900001	21	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Dowling, Brittany; Manzi, Joseph E.; Raab, Gabriel; Coladonato, Carlo; Dines, Joshua S.; Fleisig, Glenn S.								The relationship among lead knee extension, fastball velocity and elbow torque in professional baseball pitchers								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2022.2050801				2022	The purpose of this study was to investigate potential differences in lead knee extension velocity, elbow varus torque and lead knee extension (the change in lead knee flexion from foot contact to ball release) in high and low velocity professional pitchers. Three-dimensional motion capture (480 Hz) was used to assess 322 professional pitchers. T-test were used to compare the two groups and multiple linear regression analyses were performed on all pitchers (n = 322). The high-velocity group (n = 99; 40.3 +/-  0.9m/s) had greater lead knee extension (17 +/- 13 vs 5 +/- 14 degrees, p < 0.001, g = 0.9), lead knee extension velocity (419 +/- 135 vs 297 +/- 121 degrees/s, p < 0.001, g = 0.9) and elbow varus torque (91.1 +/- 15.5 vs 84.0 +/- 14.7 Nm, p < 0.001, g = 0.5) compared to the low-velocity group (n = 88; 36.1  +/- 1.2 m/s). Lead knee extension (R-2 = 0.352, p < 0.001) and lead knee extension velocity (R-2 = 0.326, p < 0.001) were found to be positive predictors of ball velocity but not elbow varus torque (p = 0.807). Instructing professional pitchers to utilise a lead leg bracing technique that facilitates increased lead knee extension can contribute to faster ball velocity, but most likely results from a combination of other mechanics.		[Dowling, Brittany] Midwest Orthopaed Rush, Sports Performance Ctr, Chicago, IL 60612 USA; [Manzi, Joseph E.; Raab, Gabriel] Weill Cornell Med Coll, New York, NY USA; [Coladonato, Carlo] Drexel Univ, Coll Med, Philadelphia, PA USA; [Dines, Joshua S.] Hosp Special Surg, Sports Med Inst, 535 E 70th St, New York, NY 10021 USA; [Fleisig, Glenn S.] Amer Sports Med Inst, Birmingham, AL USA; [Dowling, Brittany] Midwest Orthopaed Rush, Sports Performance Ctr, Chicago, IL 60612 USA								19							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000770293100001	39	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Mueller, Florian; Canal-Bruland, Rouwen								On the relationship between individual differences in motives and motor performance								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	2			480	489	17479541221085940	10.1177/17479541221085940			APR 2023	2023	Motor performance is characterized by individual differences. Motive research posits that individual differences in motives (achievement, affiliation, power) predict what types of incentives individuals experience as motivating. It follows that in order to incentivize and optimize performance, models explaining determinants of such differences are integral to design appropriate interventions or training settings. Therefore, in the current study, we tested the utility of a motive-based approach in explaining motor performance differences in a competitive sports context. Specifically, we trained and assessed sport science students' performance in a series of motor tasks (i.e., darts, beanbag throwing, golf putting) in small groups. Beforehand, students' motives were assessed employing both projective and self-report measures. As hypothesized, students' projectively measured power motive (and to a lesser extent achievement motive) showed a positive relationship to motor performance. In contrast, none of the self-reported motives were related to performance. These findings highlight the utility of the achievement and power motive in explaining individual differences in motor performance and suggest feasible intervention and training strategies.		[Mueller, Florian; Canal-Bruland, Rouwen] Friedrich Schiller Univ Jena, Jena, Germany; [Mueller, Florian] Friedrich Schiller Univ Jena, Inst Sport Sci, Dept Psychol Human Movement & Sport, Seidelstr 20, D-07749 Jena, Germany								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000773080900001	70	Article; Article		
J	Hatano, Genki; Matsuo, Shingo; Asai, Yuji; Suzuki, Shigeyuki; Iwata, Masahiro								Effects of High-Intensity Stretch with Moderate Pain and Maximal Intensity Stretch without Pain on Flexibility								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				21	2			171	181		10.52082/jssm.2022.171			JUN 2022	2022	In this study, we aimed to identify the time course effects of different intensities of static stretch (SST) (maximal intensity without pain vs. high-intensity with moderate pain) on flexibility. This study included 16 healthy students (8 men and 8 women) who performed 1) 5-minute SST at 100%, 2) 110%, and 3) 120% intensity, as well as 4) no stretching (control) in a random sequence on four separate days. Static passive torque (SPT), hamstring electromyography (EMG), and pain intensity were continuously recorded during SST. We assessed markers of stiffness, range of motion (ROM), and maximal dynamic passive torque (DPTmax) before SST and 0, 15, 30, 45, 60, 75, and 90 minutes after SST. Stiffness decreased and ROM and DPTmax increased significantly immediately after SST at the three different intensity levels (p < 0.05). The effects of SST at 120% intensity were stronger and lasted longer than the effects of SST at 110% and 100% intensity (stiffness: -17%, -9%, and -7%, respectively; ROM: 14%, 10%, and 6%, respectively; DPTmax: 15%, 15%, and 9%, respectively). SPT decreased after SST at all intensities (p < 0.05). SST at 120% intensity caused a significantly greater reduction in SPT than SST at 100% intensity (p < 0.05). Pain intensity and EMG activity increased immediately after the onset of SST at 120% intensity (p < 0.05), although these responses were attenuated over time. Stretching intensity significantly correlated with the degree of change in ROM and stiffness (p < 0.05). These results support our hypothesis that stretch-induced flexibility is amplified and prolonged with an increase in stretch intensity beyond the pain threshold. Additional studies with more participants and different demographics are necessary to examine the generalizability of these findings.		[Hatano, Genki] ASICS Corp, Inst Sport Sci, Kobe, Hyogo, Japan; [Matsuo, Shingo; Asai, Yuji; Iwata, Masahiro] Nihon Fukushi Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Rehabil, Handa, Japan; [Suzuki, Shigeyuki] Nagoya Univ, Grad Sch Med, Dept Phys & Occupat Therapy, Nagoya, Aichi, Japan; [Suzuki, Shigeyuki] Asahi Univ, Sch Hlth Sci, Dept Hlth & Sports Sci, Mizuho, Japan; [Iwata, Masahiro] Nihon Fukushi Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Rehabil, Handa, Japan								15							Sport Sciences	WOS:000772431400001	53	Article; Article		
J	da Silva, Rita M. R.; Farias, Claudio F. G.; Ramos, Ana G. A.; Mesquita, Isabel M. R.								A Novice Teacher as Facilitator of Learning During a Hybrid Sport Education/Step-Game Approach Volleyball Season								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				21	2			153	163		10.52082/jssm.2022.153			JUN 2022	2022	This study aimed to examine how a novice Physical Education teacher unfolded her pedagogical practice as a facilitator of learning during a hybrid Sport Education/Step-Game-Approach volleyball season; and to investigate students' perceptions about their lived learning experiences and active involvement in building their own learning process. For this purpose, an insider action-research design was implemented throughout one school term (20 lessons of 45 minutes each in total). Twenty-five students (aged between16 and17 years old), enrolled in the 12th grade at a Portuguese high school took part in this investigation. The novice teacher, who held two years of professional experience, assumed the dual role of teacher-researcher, facilitating an in-depth understanding of the complexity featuring of the teaching-learning process. Qualitative data were collected using multiple data sources (i.e., teacher's lesson plans and field diary, and student's focus-group interviews), and analyzed using a hybrid approach of inductive and deductive thematic analysis. The results revealed that the use of this hybrid season helped the teacher to act as facilitator of learning, namely by: (i) using two student-centered models with unique internal structures and functionalities, (ii) increasing the level of responsibility taken by students for their own learning experiences, (iii) adapting the lesson plans to students' individual needs, and (iv) combining a more supportive intervention with the use of more indirect teaching strategies. Together, these strategies seemed to prompt students' autonomy and sense of active control of the class activities, the development of students' abilities and volleyball-based knowledge, leading them to be more interested and engaged in Physical Education. In conclusion, the alliance between the student-centered environment (Sport Education) and the specificity of the content subject-knowledge (Step-Game Approach for non-invasion games) seems to have allow the novice teacher to adjust her pedagogical intervention as facilitator of learning to students' individual learning needs.		[da Silva, Rita M. R.; Farias, Claudio F. G.; Ramos, Ana G. A.; Mesquita, Isabel M. R.] Univ Porto, Fac Sport, CIFI2D, Porto, Portugal; [da Silva, Rita M. R.] Univ Porto, Fac Sport, CIFI2D, Porto, Portugal								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:000771746400001	49	Article; Article		
J	Colomer, Carmen M. E.; Pyne, David B.; Mooney, Mitch; McKune, Andrew; Serpell, Benjamin G.								A qualitative study exploring tactical performance determinants from the perspective of three Rugby World Cup coaches								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	4			734	741	17479541221087384	10.1177/17479541221087384			AUG 2022	2022	Experiential knowledge of elite international coaches was investigated to reveal insights on successful rugby union strategies and tactics required to prevail in international competition. Three elite coaches who coached at a Rugby World Cup were interviewed using an in-depth, semi- structured approach. They were asked about specific strategies and tactics which they believed were required to be successful in an upcoming international tournament and a thematic analysis of qualitative data followed. Particular interest was paid to the influence of potential constraints and how these factors impact performance behaviours over time. The importance of an effective tactical kicking game in attacking strategies was highlighted, along with an adaptable defensive structure following a turnover. Unsuccessful performance behaviours in international rugby were reported to be connected with an irrational kicking game, a weak defensive line and losing possession off set-piece plays. These results support the need for a multidisciplinary approach, where exploring coaches' knowledge presents an opportunity to enhance understanding across the performance analysis field. Further research is needed to complement experiential knowledge with quantitative research in rugby performance analysis.		[Colomer, Carmen M. E.; Pyne, David B.; McKune, Andrew; Serpell, Benjamin G.] Univ Canberra, Res Inst Sport & Exercise, Canberra, ACT, Australia; [Colomer, Carmen M. E.] Brumbies Rugby, High Performance Unit, Canberra, ACT, Australia; [Mooney, Mitch] Athlet Australia, Pathways Sci, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Mooney, Mitch] Australian Catholic Univ, Sch Exercise Sci, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Serpell, Benjamin G.] Univ New England, Sch Sci & Technol, Armidale, NSW, Australia; [McKune, Andrew] Univ KwaZulu Natal, Sch Hlth Sci, Discipline Biokinet Exercise & Leisure Sci, Durban, Kwazulu Natal, South Africa; [Colomer, Carmen M. E.] Univ Canberra, Res Inst Sport & Exercise, Canberra, ACT, Australia								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000772050100001	31	Article; Article		
J	Toomey, Clodagh M.; Whittaker, Jackie L.; Doyle-Baker, Patricia K.; Emery, Carolyn A.								Does a history of youth sport-related knee injury still impact accelerometer-measured levels of after 3-12								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				55				90	97		10.1016/j.ptsp.2022.03.003			MAY 2022	2022	Objectives: To examine accelerometer-measured physical activity (PA) in individuals with a knee injury history and controls and the association of moderate to vigorous PA (MVPA) with self-reported and performance measures of knee function. Design: Historical cohort. Participants: Participants with a 3-12 year history of youth sport-related knee injury and matched controls. Main outcome measures: MVPA (Actigraph GT3x-BT), Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score (KOOS), Triple Single-Leg Hop, Y-Balance and isometric knee strength was measured. Regression analyses examined differences in PA and the association between MVPA and knee function, adjusted for injury history, sex and time since injury. Results: Participants (42 injured, 43 controls) had a median age of 23.4 (range 16-29) years. The previously injured group spent less daily adjusted minutes in MVPA [-13.5 (95% CI -25.6, -1.4)] than controls, and females had 10.8 min (95% CI -20.2, -1.4) less MVPA than males. Higher MVPA was associated with better KOOS sport and recreation [b 1/4 0.05, 95% CI (0.01, 0.09)] adjusted for injury history. No other associations were observed. Conclusion: Previously injured youth participated in less MVPA compared to controls 3-12 years later. Lower MVPA is associated with poorer self-reported sport and recreation knee function which may have long-term negative health consequences.		[Toomey, Clodagh M.; Whittaker, Jackie L.; Doyle-Baker, Patricia K.; Emery, Carolyn A.] Univ Calgary, Fac Kinesiol, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Toomey, Clodagh M.] Univ Limerick, Sch Allied Hlth, Fac Educ & Hlth Sci, Limerick, Ireland; [Toomey, Clodagh M.; Doyle-Baker, Patricia K.; Emery, Carolyn A.] Univ Calgary, Alberta Childrens Hosp Res Inst, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Whittaker, Jackie L.] Univ British Columbia, Dept Phys Therapy, Vancouver, BC, Canada; [Whittaker, Jackie L.] Arthrit Res Canada, Richmond, BC, Canada; [Doyle-Baker, Patricia K.] Univ Calgary, Sch Architecture Planning & Landscape, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Emery, Carolyn A.] Univ Calgary, Cumming Sch Med, Dept Pediat & Community Hlth Sci, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Toomey, Clodagh M.] Univ Calgary, Fac Kinesiol, Calgary, AB, Canada								15							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000792877000011	44	Article; Article		
J	Csato, Laszlo								UEFA Against the Champions? An Evaluation of the Recent Reform of the Champions League Qualification								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				23	8			991	1016	15270025221074700	10.1177/15270025221074700			DEC 2022	2022	The paper evaluates the impact of the only reform in the Champions Path of UEFA Champions League qualifying system, effective from the 2018/19 season. In contrast to previous studies, our methodology considers five seasons instead of only one to filter out any possible season-specific attributes. The chances of some national champions decrease much stronger than suggested by the reduction in the number of available slots. Since the negative effects depend to a large extent on the arbitrary cutoffs in the access list, we propose to introduce some randomness into the determination of entry stages.		[Csato, Laszlo] Inst Comp Sci & Control SZTAKI, Lab Engn & Management Intelligence, Res Grp Operat Res & Decis Syst, Eotvos Lorand Res Network ELKH, Budapest, Hungary; [Csato, Laszlo] Corvinus Univ Budapest BCE, Dept Operat Res & Actuarial Sci, Budapest, Hungary; [Csato, Laszlo] Inst Comp Sci & Control SZTAKI, Eotvos Lorand Res Network ELKH, Budapest, Hungary								19							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000769008900001	46	Article; Article		
J	Konrad, Andreas; Bernsteiner, Daniel; Reiner, Marina Maren; Nakamura, Masatoshi; Tilp, Markus								An Intense Warm-Up Does Not Potentiate Performance Before or After a Single Bout of Foam Rolling								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				21	2			145	152		10.52082/jssm.2022.145			JUN 2022	2022	Foam rolling (FR) is a common intervention used as a warm-up to increase the range of motion (ROM) of a joint, without changes in subsequent performance. It has been shown that, in similar techniques (e.g., stretching), an additional intense warm-up can lead to performance potentiation. However, to date, it is not clear if this also holds true for FR, and if this effect is similar in both sexes. Thus, the purpose of this study was to compare the effects of an intense warm-up either before or after FR with the effects of FR without any additional intense warm-up, in both females and males. In total, 27 volunteers (14 male, 13 female) visited the laboratory on three separate days. Each participant was randomly assigned to one of the three interventions. ROM was assessed with a Sit n' Reach box, and countermovement jump (CMJ) height with a force plate, both before and after the interventions. In addition, maximum voluntary isometric contraction (MVIC) peak torque and maximum voluntary dynamic contraction (MVDC) peak torque were assessed with a dynamometer. ROM increased to the same extent following the interventions in all groups, with a large magnitude of change (P < 0.001; d = 1.12 to 1.83). In addition, male participants showed significantly higher increases in ROM when the intense warm-up was performed after FR (P 0.001; d = 1.44), but not without the intense warm-up (P = 0.45; d = 0.57) or when the intense warm-up was performed before FR (P = 0.24; d = 0.69). No significant changes in CMJ height, MVIC peak torque, or MVDC peak torque were observed (P 0.05). We therefore conclude that the time-efficient athlete might skip further intense warm-up, besides FR, when the goal is to increase ROM and to sustain performance parameters.		[Konrad, Andreas; Bernsteiner, Daniel; Reiner, Marina Maren; Tilp, Markus] Graz Univ, Inst Human Movement Sci Sport & Hlth, Graz, Austria; [Nakamura, Masatoshi] Niigata Univ Hlth & Welf, Inst Human Movement & Med Sci, Niigata, Japan; [Konrad, Andreas] Graz Univ, Inst Human Movement Sci Sport & Hlth, Graz, Austria								8							Sport Sciences	WOS:000765037700001	32	Article; Article		
J	Held, Steffen; Rappelt, Ludwig; Donath, Lars								Reliable Peak Power Assessment During Concentric and Flexion-Extension-Cycle Based Rowing Strokes using a Non-Modified Rowing Ergometer								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				21	1			131	136		10.52082/jssm.2022.131			MAR 2022	2022	Accurate assessment of peak rowing power is crucial for rowing specific performance testing. Therefore, within and between day reliability of a non-modified rowing ergometer was examined. 52 trained male rowers (21.0 +/- 2.9 years; 1.89 +/- 0.05 m; 83.2 +/- 8.2 kg; 2,000-m ergometer Time Trial mean power: 369 +/- 57 W) performed (two times 4) isolated concentric rowing strokes (DRIVE) and single flexion-extension cycle (FEC-type) rowing strokes (SLIDE-DRIVE) on two separate days (1 week apart). Good to excellent intraclass correlation coefficients (0.94 <= ICC <= 1.00), low standard error of measurement (<= 2.7%), low coefficient of variation (<= 4.9%), and suitable level of agreements (<= 30W) for DRIVE and SLIDE-DRIVE indicated a high level of (within and between day) reliability. In addition, SLIDE-DRIVE (423 +/- 157 W) revealed remarkably higher rowing power (p <= 0.001; eta p2 = 0.601; SMD = 0.34) compared to DRIVE (370 +/- 154 W). The non-modified rowing ergometer is considered to be a reliable tool for the peak power assessment during isolated concentric contraction and FEC-type rowing strokes. Notably higher power outputs (compared to an isolated concentric contraction) during FEC rowing may refer to an underlying stretch shortening cycle.		[Held, Steffen; Rappelt, Ludwig; Donath, Lars] German Sport Univ Cologne, Dept Intervent Res Exercise Training, Cologne, Germany; [Held, Steffen] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Exercise Training & Sport Informat, Dept Intervent Res Exercise Training, D-50933 Cologne, Germany								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:000760170500016	35	Article; Article		
J	Hunter, Iain; Bradshaw, Charles; McLeod, Aubree; Ward, Jared; Standifird, Tyler								Energetics and Biomechanics of Uphill, Downhill and Level Running in Highly-Cushioned Carbon Fiber Midsole Plated Shoes								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				21	1			127	130		10.52082/jssm.2022.127			MAR 2022	2022	Road-racing shoes recently experienced major changes. In the recent past, lightweight, thin midsole shoes were thought to help runners maximize their performance. But, in 2017, Nike released the Vaporfly shoe which transformed the thinking about racing shoe design. Incorporating a curved carbon fiber plate embedded in a thick, compliant and resilient midsole resulted in a reduced metabolic cost across a range of running speeds. We hypothesized the new style of shoes would be less effective uphill than downhill due to the larger ground reaction forces and hence greater elastic energy storage in the shoe during downhill running. Eighteen runners completed two days of testing, each comprising two trials of two shoe models (Saucony Endorphin Pro (EP) and Type A) and three grade conditions (uphill, level and downhill), i.e. 12 trials per day. Oxygen uptake, ground reaction forces, and lower-body kinematics were captured during each condition. Comparisons of the percent metabolic benefit were made between shoes for each grade. Stride rate, ground time, peak vertical force, and flight time were regressed with the percent metabolic benefit of the EP over the Type A shoe across grades. Metabolic benefits of the Endorphin Pro were similar across the three grade conditions (p = 0.778). No significant correlations were observed between how much benefit one runner got over another specific to grade. The new style of road-racing shoes effectively decreases metabolic tween runners did not explain greater individual metabolic benefits between shoe conditions during uphill or downhill running.		[Hunter, Iain; Bradshaw, Charles; McLeod, Aubree; Ward, Jared] Brigham Young Univ, Provo, UT 84602 USA; [Standifird, Tyler] Utah Valley Univ, Orem, UT USA; [Hunter, Iain] Brigham Young Univ, Provo, UT 84602 USA								15							Sport Sciences	WOS:000760170500015	16	Article; Article		
J	Gallo, Caitlin A.; Desrochers, Gabrielle N.; Morris, Garett J.; Rumney, Chad D.; Sandell, Sydney J.; McDevitt, Jane K.; Langford, Dianne; Rosene, John M.								Sex Differences in Neck Strength Force and Activation Patterns in Collegiate Contact Sport								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				21	1			68	73		10.52082/jssm.2022.68			MAR 2022	2022	The purpose of this study was to assess changes in cervical musculature throughout contact-heavy collegiate ice hockey practices during a regular season of NCAA Division III ice hockey teams. In this cross-sectional study, 36 (male n = 13; female n = 23) ice hockey players participated. Data were collected over 3 testing and electromyography (EMG) activity for flexion and extension were assessed. Assessments were completed approximately 1h before a contact-heavy practice and 15 min after practice. For greater peak force and greater time to peak force versus females. For both left and right SCMs, both sexes had significantly greater peak EMG activity pre-practice versus baseline, and right (dominant side) SCM time to peak EMG activity was decreased postpractice compared to pre-practice. There were no significant differences for EMG activity of the upper trapezius musculature, over time or between sexes. Sex differences observed in SCM force and activation patterns of the dominant side SCM may confirst investigation to report changes in cervical muscle strength in men's and women's ice hockey players in the practical setting.		[Gallo, Caitlin A.; Desrochers, Gabrielle N.; Morris, Garett J.; Rumney, Chad D.; Sandell, Sydney J.; Rosene, John M.] Univ New England, Dept Exercise & Sport Performance, 11 Hills Beach Rd, Biddeford, ME 04005 USA; [McDevitt, Jane K.] Temple Univ, Dept Hlth & Rehabil Sci, Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA; [Langford, Dianne] Temple Univ, Lewis Katz Sch Med, Dept Neurosci, Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA; [Rosene, John M.] Univ New England, Dept Exercise & Sport Performance, 11 Hills Beach Rd, Biddeford, ME 04005 USA								6							Sport Sciences	WOS:000760170500008	33	Article; Article		
J	Nishida, Satoru; Ito, Wataru; Ohishi, Taisuke; Yoshida, Riku; Sato, Shigeru; Nakamura, Masatoshi								The Effect of Ankle Position on Peak Eccentric Force during The Nordic Hamstring Exercise								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				21	1			43	48		10.52082/jssm.2022.43			MAR 2022	2022	Peak eccentric force during the Nordic hamstring exercise (NHE) is recognized as a predictive factor for hamstring strain injury (HSI). During the NHE, the knee flexor muscles are eccentrically contracting to resist the knee joint extension. Therefore, it is thought that the action of the gastrocnemius muscle, and thus the ankle position, influences peak eccentric force during the NHE. However, the effect of ankle position on peak eccentric force during the NHE remains unclear. Therefore, we investigated the effect of ankle position on peak eccentric force during the NHE in a cohort of 50 healthy young male rugby players (mean age, 18.7 +/- 1.2 years; mean body mass, 81.7 +/- 15.2 kg; height, 1.72 +/- 0.06 m) with no history of HSI. Each participant performed NHE strength testing with the ankle dorsiflexed or plantarflexed position and was instructed to fall forward as far as possible within 3 s. Peak eccentric force, reported relative to body mass (N/kg), of both legs was recorded, and the mean values of both legs were compared in both ankle positions. The mean peak eccentric force was significantly greater with the ankle plantarflexed position than the dorsiflexed position (3.8 +/- 1.1 vs. 3.5 +/- 1.1 N/kg, respectively, p = 0.049). These results indicate that ankle position should be carefully considered when measuring peak eccentric force during the NHE and performing NHE training.		[Nishida, Satoru] Fukuoka Univ, Fac Sports & Hlth Sci, Fukuoka, Japan; [Ito, Wataru; Yoshida, Riku; Sato, Shigeru; Nakamura, Masatoshi] Niigata Univ Hlth & Welf, Inst Human Movement & Med Sci, Niigata, Japan; [Ito, Wataru; Nakamura, Masatoshi] Niigata Univ Hlth & Welf, Dept Phys Therapy, Niigata, Japan; [Ohishi, Taisuke] Niigata Rehabil Hosp, Niigata, Japan; [Nishida, Satoru] Fukuoka Univ, Fac Sports & Hlth Sci, Jonan Ku, 8-19-1,Nanakuma, Fukuoka 8140180, Japan								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:000760170500005	34	Article; Article		
J	James, Carl; Jones, Timothy; Farra, Saro								Physiological and Performance Correlates of Squash Physical Performance								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				21	1			82	90		10.52082/jssm.2022.82			MAR 2022	2022	The physiological and performance attributes of elite squash players were investigated. Thirty-one players (21 males, world ranking [WR] 42-594; 10 females, WR 7-182) completed a battery of fitness tests which included an aerobic squash-specific physical performance test (SPPT), repeated-sprint ability (RSA), change-of-direction speed (COD), acceleration (5-m sprint), body composition and force development (countermovement jump) assessments. The SPPT provided a finishing lap score, (V) over dot O-2max, average movement economy and the lap corresponding to a blood lactate concentration of 4 mM.L-1. Players were ranked and assigned to HIGH or LOW performance tiers. Two-way ANOVA (performance level*sex) revealed higher ranked players performed better (p < 0.05) for SPPT final lap (d = 0.35), 4 mM.L-1 lap (d = 0.52) and COD (d = 0.60). SPPT displayed a 'very-large' correlation with 4 mM.L-1 lap (r = 0.86), 'large' correlations with COD (r = 0.79), RSA (r = 0.79), sum-of-7 skinfolds (r = 0.71) and (V) over dot O-2max (r = 0.69), and a 'trivial' correlation with average movement economy (r = 0.02). Assessments of cardiovascular fitness (i.e. 4 mM.L-1 lap), RSA, COD and body composition appear highly pertinent for performance profiling of squash players. Regular, submaximal assessment of the 4 mM.L-1 lap during the SPPT may offer a practical athlete monitoring approach for elite squash players.		[James, Carl; Jones, Timothy] Inst Sukan Negara, Natl Sports Inst, Kuala Lumpur 57000, Malaysia; [Farra, Saro] Sheridan Coll, Oakville, ON, Canada; [James, Carl] Inst Sukan Negara, Natl Sports Inst, Kuala Lumpur 57000, Malaysia								8							Sport Sciences	WOS:000760170500010	39	Article; Article		
J	Callahan, Christine E.; Kossman, Melissa K.; Mihalik, Jason P.; Marshall, Stephen W.; Gildner, Paula; Kerr, Zachary Y.; Cameron, Kenneth L.; Houston, Megan N.; Mrazik, Martin; Register-Mihalik, Johna K.								Association between Sensation-Seeking Behaviors and Concussion-Related Knowledge, Attitudes, Perceived Norms, and Care-Seeking Behaviors among Collegiate Student-Athletes								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				21	1			33	42		10.52082/jssm.2022.33			MAR 2022	2022	There are limited data connecting personality and behavioral tendencies and traits related to concussion care-seeking/disclosure behaviors and minimal research exists surrounding the relationship between risky behaviors, sensation-seeking, and concussion-related outcomes. This study examined the association between sensation-seeking and a student-athlete's concussion -related knowledge, attitudes, perceived social norms, and concussion care-seeking/disclosure behaviors (intention to disclose concussion symptoms, perceived control over symptom disclosure, self-removal from play due to concussion symptoms, continued play with concussion symptoms, and disclosure of all concussions at the time of injury). The current study utilized a retrospective cohort of collegiate student-athletes at a single National Collegiate Athletic Association Division I institution. Separate multi variable linear regression models estimating mean differences (MD) and 95% Confidence Intervals (CI) estimated the association between sensation-seeking and concussion knowledge, concussion attitudes, and perceived social norms. Separate multivariable binomial regression models estimating adjusted prevalence ratios (PR) and 95%CI estimated the association between sensation-seeking and intention to disclose concussion symptoms, perceived control over symptom disclosure, self-removal from play due to concussion symptoms, continued play with concussion symptoms, and disclosure of all concussions at the time of injury. All models were adjusted for sex, sport participation, and concussion history. Higher sensation-seeking was significantly associated with less favorable concussion attitudes (adjusted MD = 1.93; 95%CI =-3.04,-0.83), less favorable perceived social norms surrounding concussion (adjusted MD =-1.39; 95%CI = -2.06,0.72), and continuing to play while experiencing concussion symptoms (adjusted PR = 1.50; 95%CI = 1.10, 2.06). Student athletes with increased sensation-seeking could be at risk for failing to disclose a concussion, decreasing athlete safety and resulting in less optimal care post-injury. Results will inform future theory-based concussion education programs which consider behavioral tendencies and traits as well as sport culture to promote concussion care-seeking/disclosure and individualized interventions based on risky behavior engagement.		[Callahan, Christine E.; Mihalik, Jason P.; Kerr, Zachary Y.; Register-Mihalik, Johna K.] Univ N Carolina, Matthew Gfeller Ctr, Dept Exercise & Sport Sci, Chapel Hill, NC 27599 USA; [Callahan, Christine E.; Mihalik, Jason P.; Kerr, Zachary Y.; Register-Mihalik, Johna K.] Univ N Carolina, Human Movement Sci Curriculum, Dept Allied Hlth Sci, Chapel Hill, NC 27599 USA; [Kossman, Melissa K.] Univ Southern Mississippi, Sch Hlth Profess, Hattiesburg, MS 39406 USA; [Mihalik, Jason P.; Marshall, Stephen W.; Gildner, Paula; Kerr, Zachary Y.; Register-Mihalik, Johna K.] Univ N Carolina, Injury Prevent Res Ctr, Chapel Hill, NC 27599 USA; [Marshall, Stephen W.] Univ N Carolina, Gillings Sch Global Publ Hlth, Dept Epidemiol, Chapel Hill, NC 27599 USA; [Cameron, Kenneth L.; Houston, Megan N.] US Mil Acad, Keller Army Hosp, John Feagin Jr Sports Med Fellowship, West Points, NY USA; [Cameron, Kenneth L.] Uniformed Serv Univ Hlth Sci, Dept Phys Med, Bethesda, MD 20814 USA; [Cameron, Kenneth L.] Uniformed Serv Univ Hlth Sci, Dept Rehabil & Surg, Bethesda, MD 20814 USA; [Mrazik, Martin] Univ Alberta, Dept Educ Psychol, Edmonton, AB, Canada; [Register-Mihalik, Johna K.] Univ North Carolina Chapel Hill, STAR Heel Performance Lab, Chapel Hill, NC 27599 USA; [Callahan, Christine E.] Univ North Carolina Chapel Hill, Matthew Gfeller Center, Human Movement Sci, Stallings Evans Sports Med Ctr, Chapel Hill, NC 27599 USA								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:000760170500004	53	Article; Article		
J	Mazalan, Nur Shakila; Landers, Grant Justin; Wallman, Karen Elizabeth; Ecker, Ullrich								A Combination of Ice Ingestion and Head Cooling Enhances Cognitive Performance during Endurance Exercise in the Heat								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				21	1			23	32		10.52082/jssm.2022.23			MAR 2022	2022	This study assessed the effectiveness of head cooling during exercise in the heat on cognitive performance, either alone or with ice ingestion. Ten healthy males, non-acclimatized to heat, ran (70% (V) over dotO(2)peak) for 2x30 min in heat (35 +/- 0.9 degrees C, 68.2 +/- 6.9% RH). Participants completed 3 trials: 10 min of head cooling during exercise (HC); precooling with crushed ice (7g.kg(-1)) and head cooling during exercise (MIX); or no-cooling/control (CON). Working memory was assessed using the automated operation span task (OSPAN) and serial seven test (S7). Following MIX, S7 scores were improved compared to CON (12 +/- 9.5, p = 0.004, d = 1.42, 0.34-2.28) and HC (4 +/- 5.5, p = 0.048, d = 0.45,-0.47 to 1.3) during exercise. Moderate to large effect sizes were recorded for S7 and OSPAN following MIX and HC compared to CON, suggesting a tendency for improved cognitive performance during exercise in heat. Following precooling (MIX), core body temperature (Tc) and forehead temperature (Th) were lower compared to baseline (-0.75 +/- 0.37 degrees C, p 0.001;-0.31 +/- 0.29 degrees C, p = 0.008, respectively) but not in HC or CON (p 0.05). Thermal sensation (TS) was lower in MIX and HC compared to CON during exercise (p < 0.05). The reduction in Tc, Th and TS with MIX may have attenuated the effect of heat and subsequently improved working memory during exercise in heat.		[Mazalan, Nur Shakila; Landers, Grant Justin; Wallman, Karen Elizabeth] Univ Western Australia, Sch Human Sci Exercise & Sports Sci, Crawley, WA, Australia; [Ecker, Ullrich] Univ Western Australia, Sch Psychol Sci, Crawley, WA, Australia; [Mazalan, Nur Shakila] Natl Univ Malaysia, Fac Educ, Bangi, Selangor, Malaysia; [Mazalan, Nur Shakila] Univ Western Australia, Sch Human Sci Exercise & Sports Sci, Crawley, WA, Australia; [Mazalan, Nur Shakila] Natl Univ Malaysia, Fac Educ, Bangi, Selangor, Malaysia								11							Sport Sciences	WOS:000760170500003	33	Article; Article		
J	Hogg, Jennifer A.; Avedesian, Jason M.; Diekfuss, Jed A.; Acocello, Shellie N.; Shimmin, Rylee D.; Kelley, Elisabeth A.; Kostrub, Deborah A.; Myer, Gregory D.; Wilkerson, Gary B.								Sex Moderates the Relationship between Perceptual-Motor Function and Single-Leg Squatting Mechanics								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				21	1			104	111		10.52082/jssm.2022.104			MAR 2022	2022	To examine the isolated and combined effects of sex and percep-tual-motor function on single-leg squatting mechanics in males and females. We employed a cross-sectional design in a research laboratory. Fifty-eight females (22.2 +/- 3.5 yrs, 1.60 +/- .07 m, 64.1 +/- 13.0 kg) and 35 males (23.5 +/- 5.0 yrs, 1.80 +/- .06m, 84.7 +/- 15.3 kg) free from time-loss injury in the six months prior, vertigo, and vestibular conditions participated in this study. Independent vari-ables were sex, perceptual-motor metrics (reaction time, effi-ciency index, conflict discrepancy), and interaction effects. De-pendent variables were peak frontal plane angles of knee projec-tion, ipsilateral trunk flexion, and contralateral pelvic drop during single-leg squatting. After accounting for the sex-specific vari-ance and perceptual-motor function effects on frontal plane squat-ting kinematics, female sex amplified the associations of: higher reaction time, lower efficiency index, and higher conflict discrep-ancy with greater right ipsilateral peak trunk lean (R-2 = .13; p = .05); higher reaction time, lower efficiency index, and higher con-flict discrepancy with decreased right contralateral pelvic drop (R-2 = .22; p < .001); higher reaction time and lower conflict dis-crepancy with greater right frontal plane knee projection angle (R-2 = .12; p = .03); and higher reaction time with greater left frontal plane knee projection angle (R-2 = .22; p < .001). Female sex amplified the relationship between perceptual-motor function and two-dimensional frontal plane squatting kinematics. Future work should determine the extent to which perceptual-motor im-provements translate to safer movement strategies.		[Hogg, Jennifer A.; Acocello, Shellie N.; Wilkerson, Gary B.] Univ Tennessee Chattanooga, Dept Hlth & Human Performance, Chattanooga, TN USA; [Avedesian, Jason M.] Clemson Univ, Athlet Dept, Clemson, SC USA; [Diekfuss, Jed A.; Myer, Gregory D.] Emory Sports Performance & Res Ctr SPARC, Flowery Branch, GA USA; [Diekfuss, Jed A.; Myer, Gregory D.] Emory Sports Med Ctr, Atlanta, GA USA; [Diekfuss, Jed A.] Emory Univ, Sch Med, Dept Orthopaed, Atlanta, GA USA; [Shimmin, Rylee D.] Univ North Georgia, Dahlonega, GA USA; [Kelley, Elisabeth A.] Erlanger Sports & Hlth Inst, Chattanooga, TN USA; [Kostrub, Deborah A.] Hughston Clin Orthopaed, Nashville, TN USA; [Myer, Gregory D.] Micheli Ctr Sports Injury Prevent, Waltham, MA USA; [Hogg, Jennifer A.] Univ Tennessee Chattanooga, 615 McCallie Ave, Chattanooga, TN 37403 USA								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:000760170500012	54	Article; Article		
J	Feletti, Francesco; Saini, Gaia; Naldi, Stefano; Casadio, Carlo; Mellini, Lorenzo; Feliciani, Giacomo; Zamprogno, Emanuela								Injuries in Medium to Long-Distance Triathlon: A Retrospective Analysis of Medical Conditions Treated in Three Editions of the Ironman Competition								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				21	1			58	67		10.52082/jssm.2022.58			MAR 2022	2022	Triathlon ' s popularity is rapidly increasing, and epidemiological data relating to its related medical conditions is crucial to the development of proper medical plans and safety guidelines for it. This study examined the data from the medical reports collected during three consecutive editions of Ironman Italy, from 2017 to 2019. Out of 10,653 race-starters, 3.3% required medical attention sustaining 472 medical conditions. A significantly higher injury risk was found for females versus males (chi 2 = 9.78, p = 0.02) and in long-distance (IR: 4.09/1,000hours) rather than in Olympic/middle distance races (IR: 1.75/1,000hours). Most (68.4%) conditions (including muscular exhaustion, hypothermia, and dehydration) were systemic, whilst only 10.2% were acute traumatic injuries. Of a total of 357 triathletes requiring medical assistance, 8.1% were a candidate for hospitalisation. The equipment and personnel that are required for the medical assistance in future triathlon events were estimated based on Maurer's algorithm, and ten practical recommendations for triathlon medical support were formulated.		[Feletti, Francesco; Mellini, Lorenzo] Ausl Romagna S Maria delle Croci Hosp, Dept Diagnost Imaging, Ravenna, Italy; [Saini, Gaia] Ausl Romagna S Maria delle Croci Hosp, Dept Emergency, Ravenna, Italy; [Naldi, Stefano] S Maria Croci Hosp, Unit Emergency Surg, Dept Surg, Ravenna, Italy; [Casadio, Carlo] Associazione Dietet & Nutr Clin Italiana, Rome, Italy; [Casadio, Carlo] Croce Rossa Italiana, Comitato Ravenna, Ravenna, Italy; [Feliciani, Giacomo] Ist Sci Romagnolo & Cura Tumori IRCCS, Meldola, FC, Italy; [Zamprogno, Emanuela] Crit Care Team I Help BSO, Meldola, Italy; [Zamprogno, Emanuela] Confederazione Nazl Misericordie Italia, Milan, Italy; [Feletti, Francesco] S Maria Croci Hosp Ausl Romagna, Radiol Unit, Ravenna, Italy								8							Sport Sciences	WOS:000760170500007	52	Article; Article		
J	Mikami, Kentaro; Samukawa, Mina; Oba, Kensuke; Nakamura, Kentaro; Suzumori, Yuki; Ishida, Yuko; Matsumoto, Hisashi; Aoki, Yoshimitsu; Ishida, Tomoya; Yamanaka, Masanori; Tohyama, Harukazu								Torque-angle curve of the knee flexors in athletes with a prior history of hamstring strain								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				54				29	35		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.11.008			MAR 2022	2022	Objectives: To investigate the knee flexor torque-angle curve after hamstring strain injury using different muscle action types and angular velocities. Design: Cross-sectional. Setting: Controlled laboratory. Participants: Thirteen collegiate athletes injured hamstring strain (21.0 +/- 0.8 years; 173.9 +/- 6.5 cm; 70.1 +/- 10.5 kg). Main outcome measures: Concentric and eccentric knee flexor torque was measured at 60 & 300 degrees/sec. Peak torque and average torque every 10 degrees were determined from torque-angle curve and injured side was compared with non-injured side. Results: No significant differences were found in the concentric muscle actions. However, the eccentric peak torque was significantly lower on the injured side at 60 degrees/sec (p = 0.048) and at 300 degrees/sec (p = 0.002). The average eccentric torque was significantly lower on the injured side at 60 degrees/sec from 10 degrees to 20 degrees of knee flexion (p = 0.012-0.018) and at 300 degrees/sec from 10 degrees to 60 degrees of knee flexion (p = 0.005-0.049). Conclusion: The knee flexor torque-angle curve changes with eccentric muscle action after hamstring injury. Eccentric torque declines were close to full knee extension at 60 degrees/sec and a wide range of knee flexion at 300 degrees/sec. The assessment and rehabilitation of eccentric hamstring strength may be important to consider the effect of the angular velocity after hamstring strain injury. (C) 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Mikami, Kentaro; Matsumoto, Hisashi; Ishida, Tomoya] Hokushin Orthopaed Hosp, Dept Rehabil, Sapporo, Hokkaido, Japan; [Samukawa, Mina; Oba, Kensuke; Ishida, Tomoya; Tohyama, Harukazu] Hokkaido Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, Sapporo, Hokkaido, Japan; [Oba, Kensuke; Suzumori, Yuki] Hitsujigaoka Hosp, Dept Rehabil, Sapporo, Hokkaido, Japan; [Nakamura, Kentaro] Sapporo Spine Clin, Dept Rehabil, Sapporo, Hokkaido, Japan; [Ishida, Yuko] Japan Inst Sports Sci, Sports Med Ctr, Tokyo, Japan; [Aoki, Yoshimitsu] Hokushin Orthopaed Hosp, Dept Orthoped Surg, Sapporo, Hokkaido, Japan; [Yamanaka, Masanori] Hokkaido Chitose Coll Rehabil, Fac Hlth Sci, Chitose, Japan; [Samukawa, Mina] Hokkaido Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, Kita Ku, North 12,West 5, Sapporo, Hokkaido 0600812, Japan								2							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000763559900004	47	Article; Article		
J	Hides, Julie A.; Leung, Felix T.; Watson, Kate; Trojman, Anthony; Grantham, Brittany; Mendis, M. Dilani								Trunk muscle size and function in volleyball players with and without injuries to the head, neck and upper limb								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				54				1	7		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.12.003			MAR 2022	2022	Objective: To investigate trunk muscle size and function in elite and community volleyball players with and without a history of head, neck or upper limb injury. Design: Cross-sectional observational study. Setting: Volleyball training camp or training sessions. Participants: 86 volleyball players (elite = 29; community = 57). Main outcome measures: Information regarding history of head, neck or upper limb injuries was collected by self-report questionnaires. Trunk muscle size (multifidus, transversus abdominis, internal oblique and quadratus lumborum) and voluntary contraction (multifidus, transversus abdominis, internal oblique) were assessed using ultrasound imaging. Results: For trunk muscle size, no significant differences were found between elite and community volleyball players with and without a history of injury (all p > 0.05). A significant difference was found for voluntary contraction of the multifidus and transversus abdominis muscles for elite and community volleyball players with and without a history of injury (all p < 0.05). Conclusion: A difference in trunk muscle contraction but no change in trunk muscle size in players with a history of head, neck or upper limb injuries may represent an altered muscle recruitment pattern rather than a deficiency in trunk muscle strength. Prospective studies are required to determine if these adaptations are compensatory (and protective) or predispose players to further injuries.		[Hides, Julie A.; Leung, Felix T.; Trojman, Anthony; Grantham, Brittany; Mendis, M. Dilani] Griffith Univ, Sch Hlth Sci & Social Work, Nathan Campus, Nathan, Qld 4111, Australia; [Hides, Julie A.; Trojman, Anthony; Mendis, M. Dilani] Griffith Univ, Menzies Hlth Inst Queensland, Nathan Campus, Nathan, Qld 4111, Australia; [Watson, Kate] Queensland Acad Sport QAS, Qld Sport & Athlet Ctr, Sport & Recreat, Kessels Rd, Nathan, Qld 4111, Australia; [Hides, Julie A.] Griffith Univ, Sch Hlth Sci & Social Work, Nathan Campus,170 Kessels Rd, Brisbane, Qld 4111, Australia								6							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000763559900001	30	Article; Article		
J	Wells, Jack E. T.; Mitchell, Andrew C. S.; Charalambous, Laura H.; Fletcher, Iain M.								Relationships between highly skilled golfers' clubhead velocity and kinetic variables during a countermovement jump								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2022.2041709				2022	Previous research has sought to establish the relationship countermovement jump (CMJ) performance has with clubhead velocity (CHV). However, these investigations either assessed lower skilled golfers, or utilised field-based protocols, which are unable to assess a number of biomechanical variables. Fifty highly skilled golfers performed CMJs on Kistler force platforms in laboratory conditions. The CMJ variables included positive impulse, net impulse, average power, peak power, peak force, force at zero velocity and jump height. Clubhead velocity was measured using a TrackMan 3e launch monitor at a driving range. A Pearsons correlation was employed to measure the strength and direction of the relationships between CHV and CMJ derived performance variables. Results indicated strong positive relationships (all p's <0.001) between CHV and positive impulse (r = 0.695), net impulse (r = 0.689), average power (r = 0.645), peak power (r = 0.656), peak force (r = 0.517) and force at zero velocity (r = 0.528) with no significant relationship with jump height. However, if investigators only have access to field-based protocols, it is recommended that they measure jump height and utilise inverse dynamics to calculate take-off velocity. By multiplying take-off velocity by mass, this allows the attainment of net impulse.		[Wells, Jack E. T.] Natl Training Acad, Profess Golfers Assoc, Ping House, The Belfry, England; [Mitchell, Andrew C. S.; Charalambous, Laura H.; Fletcher, Iain M.] Univ Bedfordshire, Inst Sport & Phys Act Res, Luton, Beds, England; [Wells, Jack E. T.] Natl Training Acad, Profess Golfers Assoc, Ping House, The Belfry, England								18							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000762262700001	34	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Croteau, Felix; Thenault, Francois; Blain-Moraes, Stefanie; Pearsall, David J.; Paradelo, David; Robbins, Shawn M.								Automatic detection of passing and shooting in water polo using machine learning: a feasibility study								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2022.2044507				2022	There is currently no efficient way to quantify overhead throwing volume in water polo. Therefore, this study aimed to test the feasibility of a method to detect passes and shots in water polo automatically using inertial measurement units (IMU) and machine-learning algorithms. Eight water polo players wore one IMU sensor on the wrist (dominant hand) and one on the sacrum during six practices each. Sessions were filmed with a video camera and manually tagged for individual shots or passes. Data were synchronised between video tagging and IMU sensors using a cross-correlation approach. Support vector machine (SVM) and artificial neural networks (ANN) were compared based on sensitivity and specificity for identifying shots and passes. A total of 7294 actions were identified during the training sessions, including 945 shots and 5361 passes. Using SVM, passes and shots together were identified with 94.4% (95%CI = 91.8-96.4) sensitivity and 93.6% (95%CI = 91.4-95.4) specificity. Using ANN yielded similar sensitivity (93.0% [95%CI = 90.1-95.1]) and specificity (93.4% [95%CI = 91.1 = 95.2]). The results suggest that this method of identifying overhead throwing motions with IMU has potential for future field applications. A set-up with one single sensor at the wrist can suffice to measure these activities in water polo.		[Croteau, Felix; Blain-Moraes, Stefanie; Robbins, Shawn M.] McGill Univ, Sch Phys & Occupat Therapy, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Croteau, Felix] Inst Natl Sport Quebec, Sports Med, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Croteau, Felix; Paradelo, David] Water Polo Canada, Senior Natl Teams, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Thenault, Francois] Univ Sherbrooke, Kinanthropol, Sherbrooke, PQ, Canada; [Pearsall, David J.] McGill Univ, Dept Kinesiol & Phys Educ, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Robbins, Shawn M.] Layton Lethbridge MacKay Rehabil Ctr, Ctr Interdisciplinary Res Rehabil, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Croteau, Felix] McGill Univ, Sch Phys & Occupat Therapy, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Croteau, Felix] Inst Natl Sport Quebec, Sports Med, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Croteau, Felix] Water Polo Canada, Senior Natl Teams, Montreal, PQ, Canada								9							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000762123200001	36	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Lysdal, Filip Gertz; Wang, Yuehang; Delahunt, Eamonn; Gehring, Dominic; Kosik, Kyle B.; Krosshaug, Tron; Li, Yumeng; Mok, Kam-Ming; Pasanen, Kati; Remus, Alexandria; Terada, Masafumi; Fong, Daniel T. P.								What have we learnt from quantitative case reports of acute lateral ankle sprains injuries and episodes of 'giving-way' of the ankle joint, and what shall we further investigate?								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				21	4			359	379		10.1080/14763141.2022.2035801			APR 21 2022	2022	Lateral ankle sprains are a commonly incurred injury in sports. They have a high recurrence rate and can lead to the development of persistent injury associated symptoms. We performed a quantitative synthesis of published case reports documenting the kinematics of acute lateral ankle sprains and episodes of 'giving-way' of the ankle joint to provide a comprehensive description of the mechanisms. A systematic literature search was conducted to screen records within MEDLINE (R) and EMBASE (R). Additional strategies included manual search of specific journals, as well as contacting researchers in relevant communities to retrieve unpublished data. Twenty-four cases were included in the quantitative synthesis, 11 from individual case reports and 13 from four separate case series. Two authors independently reviewed all the articles and extracted ankle joint kinematic data. Excessive ankle inversion was the most pronounced kinematic pattern observed across all included cases, with a mean peak inversion angle of 67.5 degrees (range 2.0 to 142) and a mean peak inversion velocity of 974 degrees/s (range 468 to 1752). This was followed by internal rotation and plantar flexion, respectively. A homogeneous linear function revealed a mean inversion velocity across all cases of 337 degrees/s (range 117 to 1400; R-2 = 0.78; p < 0.0001).		[Lysdal, Filip Gertz] Tech Univ Denmark, Dept Mech Engn, Sect Mfg Engn, Lyngby, Denmark; [Lysdal, Filip Gertz] Aalborg Univ, Dept Hlth Sci & Technol, Sport Sci, Aalborg, Denmark; [Wang, Yuehang; Fong, Daniel T. P.] Loughborough Univ, Natl Ctr Sport & Exercise Med, Sch Sport, Loughborough, Leics, England; [Delahunt, Eamonn] Univ Coll Dublin, Sch Publ Hlth Physiotherapy & Sports Sci, Dublin, Ireland; [Delahunt, Eamonn] Univ Coll Dublin, Inst Sport & Hlth, Dublin, Ireland; [Gehring, Dominic] Univ Freiburg, Dept Sport & Sport Sci, Freiburg, Germany; [Kosik, Kyle B.] Univ Kentucky, Coll Hlth Sci, Dept Athlet Training & Clin Nutr, Lexington, KY USA; [Krosshaug, Tron] Norwegian Sch Sport Sci, Oslo Sports Trauma Res Ctr, Dept Sports Med, Oslo, Norway; [Li, Yumeng] Texas State Univ, Dept Hlth & Human Performance, San Marcos, TX USA; [Mok, Kam-Ming] Chinese Univ Hong Kong, Prince Wales Hosp, Fac Med, Dept Orthopaed & Traumatol, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [Mok, Kam-Ming] Lingnan Univ, Off Student Affairs, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [Pasanen, Kati] Univ Calgary, Fac Kinesiol, Sport Injury Prevent Res Ctr, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Pasanen, Kati] Tampere Res Ctr Sports Med, UKK Inst, Tampere, Finland; [Remus, Alexandria] Natl Univ Singapore, Inst Hlth 1, Singapore, Singapore; [Terada, Masafumi] Ritsumeikan Univ, Fac Sport & Hlth Sci, Kusatsu, Japan; [Fong, Daniel T. P.] Loughborough Univ, Natl Ctr Sport & Exercise Med, Sch Sport, Loughborough, Leics, England								33							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000758601900001	49	Article; Article		
J	Lee, Alexander; Farooqi, Ali; Abreu, Eric; Talwar, Divya; Maguire, Kathleen								Trends in pediatric baseball and softball injuries presenting to emergency departments								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				51	3			247	253		10.1080/00913847.2022.2040888			MAY 4 2023	2023	Background Millions of youth participate in baseball and softball in the United States and these youth account for a large number of pediatric sports injuries. This study sought to characterize annual, seasonal, and age-related trends in pediatric softball and baseball injuries presenting to the Emergency Department (ED). Methods The National Electronic Injury Surveillance System (NEISS) database was retrospectively examined for all softball and baseball injuries from 2010 to 2019 involving pediatric patients aged 7-21 years. Patients were classified by age as children (ages 7-13), adolescents (ages 14-18), or young adults (ages 19-21). Case narratives were used to assign mechanisms of injury. National injury estimates were calculated using statistical weights provided by the Consumer Product Safety Commission. Results An estimated 1,372,573 pediatric softball and baseball ED visits occurred from 2010 to 2019. The mean age of the patient population was 13.6 years old (95% CI = 13.5-13.8 years), and baseball athletes were younger than softball athletes (13.2 years and 14.3 years) (p < 0.01). Moreover, baseball athletes hit by the bat were younger than their softball counterparts (11.8 years and 13.4 years). Most baseball and softball injuries were the result of being hit by the ball (52.8% and 54.2%) or sliding into a base (13.1% and 15.8%). The annual number of injuries decreased during the studied time period by 41.1% for baseball injuries and by 38.3% for softball injuries. The annual number of injuries related to all injury mechanisms decreased over the studied time period for both sports, with the exception of baseball throwing injuries, which increased by 8.6%. Baseball and softball injuries were both most likely to be present to the ED on Sunday (16.3% and 17.9%) and during the Spring (53.2% and 55.3%). Conclusion Safety guidelines should focus on reducing the prevalence of injuries acquired by younger baseball and softball players during practice and educating coaches and players on existing pitch count guidelines.		[Lee, Alexander; Farooqi, Ali; Maguire, Kathleen] Univ Penn, Perelman Sch Med, Philadelphia, PA 19104 USA; [Abreu, Eric] Thomas Jefferson Univ, Jefferson Coll Populat Hlth, Philadelphia, PA 19107 USA; [Talwar, Divya; Maguire, Kathleen] Childrens Hosp Philadelphia, Div Orthopaed, Philadelphia, PA 19104 USA; [Maguire, Kathleen] Childrens Hosp Philadelphia, Clin Orthopaed Surg, Dept Orthopaed, 2nd Floor Wood Bldg,3401 Civ Ctr Blvd, Philadelphia, PA 19104 USA								5							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000757178200001	23	Article; Article		
J	McGuckin, Matthew E. C.; Turnnidge, Jennifer; Bruner, Mark W.; Lefebvre, Jordan S.; Cote, Jean								Exploring youth sport coaches' perceptions of intended outcomes of leadership behaviours								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	3			463	476	17479541221076247	10.1177/17479541221076247			JUN 2022	2022	Youth sport coaches play an important role in shaping the sport experience and positive development of youth athletes. One salient approach to examining how the interpersonal behaviours of coaches influence young athletes has been through the lens of leadership theories. However, there is limited understanding surrounding the underlying processes associated with coach leadership behaviours, such as how and why behaviours are applied. This study sought to examine why do youth sport coaches use specific leadership behaviours and what are their intended outcomes when using these behaviours? Eleven coaches (M-age = 42.3, SD = 14.5) were recruited from competitive youth soccer and volleyball clubs (athletes' M-age = 15.8, SD = 1.9). Coaches participated in a video-stimulated recall interview, during which coaches reflected upon their own coaching behaviours and provided insight into the application of leadership behaviours in youth sport. Findings of the study revealed that contrasting leadership behaviours (e.g. transformational vs. transactional) are associated with distinctive coach objectives (promoting confidence vs. establishing respect). This study can serve to facilitate knowledge mobilization by strengthening our understanding of coaches' intentions for the implementation of leadership behaviours in a real-world setting.		[McGuckin, Matthew E. C.; Turnnidge, Jennifer; Cote, Jean] Queens Univ, Sch Kinesiol & Hlth Studies, Kingston, ON, Canada; [Bruner, Mark W.] Nipissing Univ, Dept Phys & Hlth Educ, North Bay, ON, Canada; [Lefebvre, Jordan S.] Univ Queensland, Sch Human Movement & Nutr Sci, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [McGuckin, Matthew E. C.] Queens Univ, Sch Kinesiol & Hlth Studies, Kingston, ON, Canada								14							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000760386800001	63	Article; Article		
J	Almeida, Carlos Humberto; Volossovitch, Anna								Multifactorial analysis of football penalty kicks in the Portuguese First League: A replication study								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	1			160	175	17479541221075722	10.1177/17479541221075722			FEB 2023	2023	Although penalty-kick outcomes in football are thought to be affected by different factors, many of them have not been sufficiently analysed yet. This study sought to replicate and extend the findings of a previous multifactorial analysis of penalty kicks in Union of European Football Associations (UEFA) club competitions. For that purpose, we used a larger sample (n = 833), collected from eight consecutive seasons of the Portuguese First League (from 2013-2014 to 2020-2021) and adding the variables season, team quality and the penalty taker's playing status (starter or substitute) to the analysis. Chi-square tests of independence only showed significant associations of performance-related factors (shot horizontal and vertical directions, and goalkeeper's action) with penalty-kick outcome. Multinomial logistic regression model revealed significant increases in the odds of penalty kicks being saved when (1) shots were directed to the centre-left zones compared to the right zones (penalty taker's perspective), (2) shots were directed to the low zones of the goal and (3) goalkeepers dived to the correct side of the ball. In addition, the probability of missing the target or hitting the goalpost/crossbar significantly increased when shots aimed the high zones of the goal. Noteworthy, the risk of a penalty being saved when the shot was directed to the bottom zones of the goal outweighed the "miss factor" of shooting high. These findings enable coaches to develop optimal strategies for taking and saving penalty kicks, thus increasing the likelihood of both players to succeed in competitive matches, regardless of individual attributes and/or casual competitive circumstances.		[Almeida, Carlos Humberto] ISMAT Inst Super Manuel Teixeira Gomes, CIDEF, Portimao, Portugal; [Volossovitch, Anna] Univ Lisbon, SpertLab, Fac Motricidade Humana, CIPER, Lisbon, Portugal; [Almeida, Carlos Humberto] Inst Super Manuel Teixeira Gomes, Rua Dr Estevao de Vasconcelos 33 A, P-8500656 Portimao, Portugal								14							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000759871200001	38	Article; Article		
J	Linek, Pawel; Booysen, Nadine; Stokes, Maria								Ultrasound Shear Modulus and Thickness of Lateral Abdominal Muscles in Different Contractile States in Relation to Self- Reported Hip/Groin Problems in Youth Soccer Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				81	1			97	108		10.2478/hukin-2022-0009			FEB 10 2022	2022	To date, no studies have assessed lateral abdominal muscles' (LAM) elasticity and thickness in relation to hip and groin symptoms in any population. The objectives were to a) assess the relationship between LAM ultrasound measurements (elasticity and thickness) and self-reported subscales of the Copenhagen Hip and Groin Outcome Score (HAGOS) and b) compare LAM elasticity and thickness between asymptomatic and symptomatic sides. Shear modulus and thickness of the oblique external (OE), internal (OI) and transversus abdominis (TrA) muscles in 25 young soccer players were assessed at rest and during isometric contraction using ultrasound shear wave elastography. HAGOS subscales were used to assess self-reported hip/groin problems. There was a significant (p < 0.05) moderate correlation between allometric-scaled OI resting thickness (mean of right and left) and the Activities of Daily Living (r = 0.40), Sport (r = 0.57) and Quality of Life (QOL) (r = 0.41) HAGOS subscales. Also, a moderate significant correlation was found between allometric-scaled TrA resting thickness and the QOL subscale (r = 0.47). Moderate correlations were found between resting OI shear modulus and the QOL (r = 0.44), between right TrA shear modulus during contraction and Symptoms (r = 0.57), and between the left TrA shear modulus during contraction and Physical Activity (r = 0.41) subscales. No differences were found between the symptomatic and asymptomatic side in thickness and elasticity measurements among soccer players with unilateral symptoms (p > 0.05). The relationships found between LAM and hip/groin problems in youth male soccer players indicate that muscles are thinner and more elastic (less stiff) in more symptomatic athletes.		[Linek, Pawel] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ, Inst Physiotherapy & Hlth Sci, Musculoskeletal Elastog & Ultrasonog Lab, Mikolowska 72B, PL-40065 Katowice, Poland; [Linek, Pawel; Booysen, Nadine; Stokes, Maria] Univ Southampton, Sch Hlth Sci, Southampton, Hants, England; [Booysen, Nadine; Stokes, Maria] Ctr Sport Exercise & Osteoarthrit Res Versus Arth, Southampton, Hants, England; [Stokes, Maria] Southampton Natl Inst Hlth Res Biomed Res Ctr, Southampton, Hants, England; [Linek, Pawel] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ, Inst Physiotherapy & Hlth Sci, Musculoskeletal Elastog & Ultrasonog Lab, Mikolowska 72B, PL-40065 Katowice, Poland								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:000753944700009	30	Article; Article		
J	Ando, Ryosuke; Tanji, Fumiya; Ohnuma, Hayato; Ikeda, Tatsuaki; Yamanaka, Ryo; Suzuki, Yasuhiro								Thigh Muscularity and Sprinting Performance of National-Level Long-Distance Runners								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				81	1			65	72		10.2478/hukin-2022-0006			FEB 10 2022	2022	Long-distance runners require aerobic capacity as well as sprinting ability for superior performance; however, the factors which determine the sprinting ability of long-distance runners remain undetermined. Therefore, the purpose of our study was to examine the association between thigh muscle size and sprinting ability in national-level male long-distance runners. Nineteen male long-distance runners with 5000 m personal-best times of 13:12.63-14:14.87 participated in this study, and transaxial images of their right thighs were collected using magnetic resonance imaging. The cross-sectional areas of the quadriceps femoris, hamstrings, and adductor muscles were calculated from the transaxial images at 30%, 50%, and 70% of the distance from the greater trochanter to the lower edge of the femur; these areas were normalized by body mass. Sprint times for 100 m and 400 m were recorded on an all-weather track. The results revealed positive correlations between the normalized cross-sectional areas of the quadriceps femoris at 50% and 70% of the thigh length and the 100 m (r = 0.666, p = 0.002 and r = 0.531, p = 0.019, respectively) and 400 m sprint times (r = 0.769, p < 0.001 and r = 0.580, p = 0.009, respectively); hence, the larger the quadriceps, the slower the sprint speed. However, no association was found between the normalized cross-sectional areas of the hamstrings or adductor muscles and sprinting performance. Therefore, running motions which activate the quadriceps femoris much more than the hamstrings and adductor muscles should be avoided by national-level long-distance runners.		[Ando, Ryosuke; Tanji, Fumiya; Ohnuma, Hayato; Ikeda, Tatsuaki; Suzuki, Yasuhiro] Japan Inst Sports Sci JISS, Dept Sports Res, Tokyo, Japan; [Tanji, Fumiya] Tokai Univ, Sport Med Sci Res Inst, Hiratsuka, Kanagawa, Japan; [Ohnuma, Hayato] Kansai Univ Social Welf, Fac Educ, Ako, Hyogo, Japan; [Ikeda, Tatsuaki] Tochigi Inst Sports Med & Sci, Mibu, Tochigi, Japan; [Yamanaka, Ryo] Niigata Agrofood Univ, Fac Agrofood Sci, Niigata, Japan; [Suzuki, Yasuhiro] Tokyo Keizai Univ, Ctr Gen Educ, Tokyo, Japan; [Ando, Ryosuke] Japan Inst Sports Sci JISS, Dept Sports Res, Kita Ku, 3-15-1 Nishigaoka, Tokyo 1150056, Japan								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:000753944700006	30	Article; Article		
J	Kasinska, Zofia; Urbanski, Piotr Kazimierz; Tasiemski, Tomasz								Sports Injuries Among Players of the Polish National Team in Amputee Football in the Annual Training Cycle								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				81	1			211	219		10.2478/hukin-2022-0021			FEB 10 2022	2022	The aim of the study was to determine the frequency, type and origin of the occurrence of injuries in amputee football. The studied group comprised all members of the Polish national amputee football team (n = 25). During the 9-month observation period, 13 players incurred 22 injuries. The incidence proportion was 48.0 per 100 athletes (95% Cl, 28.4-67.6) and the incidence rate was 5.73 per 1000 athlete-days (95% Cl, 3.33-8.12). The study showed that 32.8% of the injuries were to the thigh, 13.6% to the ankle, and 9.1% to the knee. The obtained results indicate that amputee football players rather frequently incur play-related injuries, but a single athlete incurs relatively few of them, with the lower limb being most commonly injured.		[Kasinska, Zofia; Urbanski, Piotr Kazimierz; Tasiemski, Tomasz] Poznan Univ Phys Educ, Dept Adapted Phys Act, Poznan, Poland; [Kasinska, Zofia] Poznan Univ Phys Educ, Krolowej Jadwigi 27-39, PL-61871 Poznan, Poland								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:000753944700018	34	Article; Article		
J	Zaras, Nikolaos; Stasinaki, Angeliki-Nikoletta; Mpampoulis, Thomas; Spiliopoulou, Polyxeni; Hadjicharalambous, Marios; Terzis, Gerasimos								Effect of Inter-Repetition Rest vs. Traditional Resistance Training on the Upper Body Strength Rate of Force Development and Triceps Brachii Muscle Architecture								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				81	1			189	198		10.2478/hukin-2022-0016			FEB 10 2022	2022	The purpose of the study was to examine the effect of seven-week inter-repetition rest vs. traditional resistance training on upper body maximum strength, the rate of force development and triceps brachii muscle architecture. Sixteen male participants were equally assigned into the inter-repetition rest and the traditional group. In both groups, training included the bench press exercise performed with 4 sets of 6 maximum repetitions, two training sessions per week. Twenty-second inter-repetition rest was employed for the inter-repetition rest group only. Measurements before and after the training period included maximum strength in the bench press, the isometric upper body rate of force development and peak force and triceps brachii muscle architecture. Maximum strength increased significantly in both groups (inter-repetition rest group: 21.5 +/- 5.7% vs. traditional group: 13.5 +/- 7.2%, p < 0.05), however, the maximum strength percentage increase was greater in the inter-repetition rest group compared to the traditional group (p = 0.027). Upper body isometric peak force increased only after inter-repetition rest training (10.7 +/- 10.3%, p = 0.009). The rate of force development remained unchanged for both groups (p > 0.05), although percentage changes in time frames of 0-80 and 0-100 milliseconds were greater for the inter-repetition rest group compared to the traditional training group (p = 0.024 and p = 0.044, respectively). Triceps brachii thickness increased similarly for both groups (p < 0.05). These results suggest that inter-repetition rest may induce greater increases in maximum strength and the rate of force development compared to traditional training during the initial weeks of resistance training.		[Zaras, Nikolaos; Hadjicharalambous, Marios] Univ Nicosia, Dept Life & Hlth Sci, Human Performance Lab, 46 Makedonitissas Ave,POB 24005,1700, CY-2417 Nicosia, Cyprus; [Zaras, Nikolaos; Stasinaki, Angeliki-Nikoletta; Mpampoulis, Thomas; Spiliopoulou, Polyxeni; Terzis, Gerasimos] Natl & Kapodistrian Univ Athens, Sch Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Sports Performance Lab, Athens, Greece; [Zaras, Nikolaos] Univ Nicosia, Dept Life & Hlth Sci, Human Performance Lab, 46 Makedonitissas Ave,POB 24005,1700, CY-2417 Nicosia, Cyprus								6							Sport Sciences	WOS:000753944700016	33	Article; Article		
J	Pereira, Lucas A.; Freitas, Tomas T.; Zanetti, Vinicius; Loturco, Irineu								Variations in Internal and External Training Load Measures and Neuromuscular Performance of Professional Soccer Players During a Preseason Training Period								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				81	1			149	162		10.2478/hukin-2022-0012			FEB 10 2022	2022	We described the internal and external training loads (TLs) experienced by soccer players over a 4-week preseason, examined their effects on vertical jump (VJ) performance, and investigated the relationships between different TL variables. Eighteen professional soccer players performed 17 training sessions and 1 friendly-match (FM) over the preseason. The internal TL was obtained using the session-rating of perceived exertion method. The external TL variables collected were total and high-intensity distances, body-load, and high-metabolic power distance via the GPS system. VJ performance was assessed 13 times throughout the study. Moreover, total quality recovery and delayed onset muscle soreness were assessed before every training session as a measure of recovery status. Players were divided, using a median split analysis, into two groups, according to their VJ performance (i.e., "lower" and "higher" VJ). External TL variables displayed similar variations across training sessions and were significantly interrelated (r ranging from 0.48 to 0.88). In periods where higher internal TLs were detected, impaired recovery status was noticed. Notably, the higher VJ group exhibited decreased jump performance at post-test and higher internal and external TLs across the entire preseason (compared to the lower VJ group). From our results it is suggested that professional soccer players with higher VJ performance are potentially more susceptible to concurrent training effects.		[Pereira, Lucas A.; Freitas, Tomas T.; Loturco, Irineu] NAR Nucleus High Performance Sport, Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil; [Pereira, Lucas A.; Freitas, Tomas T.; Loturco, Irineu] Univ Fed Sao Paulo, Dept Human Movement Sci, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Freitas, Tomas T.] Catholic Univ Murcia, UCAM, UCAM Res Ctr High Performance Sport, Murcia, Spain; [Freitas, Tomas T.] Catholic Univ Murcia UCAM, Fac Sport Sci, Murcia, Spain; [Zanetti, Vinicius] Red Bull Brazil Football, Jarinu, Brazil; [Loturco, Irineu] Univ South Wales, Pontypridd, M Glam, Wales; [Loturco, Irineu] NAR Nucleus High Performance Sport, Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil								19							Sport Sciences	WOS:000753944700013	30	Article; Article		
J	Imai, Satoshi; Harato, Kengo; Morishige, Yutaro; Kobayashi, Shu; Niki, Yasuo; Sato, Kazuki; Nagura, Takeo								Effects of Dual Task Interference on Biomechanics of the Entire Lower Extremity During the Drop Vertical Jump								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				81	1			5	14		10.2478/hukin-2022-0001			FEB 10 2022	2022	The dual task is an important factor affecting knee biomechanics during jump-landing tasks. Athletes often have trouble in performing two tasks concurrently and a dual task can deteriorate landing performance. However, it is still unknown whether a dual task will affect the entire lower extremity. The purpose of this study was to clarify the effects of cognitive task interference on biomechanics of hip and ankle joints as well as the knee joint during the drop vertical jump (DVJ). A total of 20 female collegiate athletes participated in the study. Athletes performed a DVJ with or without a cognitive task. The DVJ was captured using a motion analysis system. Mental arithmetic of 2-digit addition was used as a cognitive task. Maximum vertical ground reaction force (vGRF), joint angles at initial contact (IC), joint moments within 40 milliseconds (ms) after IC, and joint angles and moments at peak vGRF were assessed. The data were statistically compared between with and without a cognitive task condition using a two-tailed paired t-test or the Wilcoxon singed rank test. The peak external knee abduction moment on both limbs within 40 ms after IC during the DVJ was significantly larger in the dual task than in the single task with less knee and hip flexion at initial contact. In addition, all moments of hip and ankle joints within 40 ms after IC were significantly larger in the dual task than in the single task accompanied with greater vGRF, except for the hip internal rotation moment. Cognitive tasks during a DVJ will result in biomechanical changes of the entire lower extremity in female athletes.		[Imai, Satoshi; Harato, Kengo; Sato, Kazuki] Keio Univ, Inst Integrated Sports Med, Sch Med, Tokyo, Japan; [Harato, Kengo; Morishige, Yutaro; Kobayashi, Shu; Niki, Yasuo; Nagura, Takeo] Keio Univ, Dept Orthoped Surg, Sch Med, Tokyo, Japan; [Nagura, Takeo] Keio Univ, Dept Clin Biomech, Sch Med, Tokyo, Japan; [Harato, Kengo] Keio Univ, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Sch Med, Shinjuku Ku, 35 Shinanomachi, Tokyo 1608582, Japan								20							Sport Sciences	WOS:000753944700001	29	Article; Article		
J	Arroyo, Ruben; Alsasua, Roberto; Arana, Javier; Lapresa, Daniel; Teresa Anguera, M.								A Log-Linear Analysis of Efficiency in Wheelchair Basketball According to Player Classification								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				81	1			221	231		10.2478/hukin-2022-0022			FEB 10 2022	2022	Within the framework of observational methodology, we conducted a log-linear analysis to study efficiency in relation to players' functional ability in wheelchair basketball by analyzing associations between the position of the last pass before a shot, a shot position, and a shot result (favorable or unfavorable). The observation sample contained all offensive sequences ending in a shot by the US men's wheelchair basketball team, who won the gold medal at the 2016 Paralympic Games in Rio de Janeiro. Data were annotated and coded in the Lince software program and their reliability confirmed by measuring interobserver agreement using Cohen's kappa statistics. Log-linear modeling showed that the models generated to explain offensive sequences ending in a shot by players with greater functional ability were closest to models observed for professional basketball players and were the only models to show significant effects in terms of efficiency.		[Arroyo, Ruben] Univ Burgos, Dept Educ Sci, Burgos, Spain; [Arroyo, Ruben] Pontifical Univ Salamanca, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Salamanca, Spain; [Alsasua, Roberto; Arana, Javier; Lapresa, Daniel] Univ La Rioja, Dept Educ Sci, Edificio Vives,C Luis Ulloa S-N, Logrono 26004, Spain; [Teresa Anguera, M.] Univ Barcelona, Fac Psychol, Inst Neurosci, Barcelona, Spain; [Lapresa, Daniel] Univ La Rioja, Dept Educ Sci, Edificio Vives,C Luis Ulloa S-N, Logrono 26004, Spain								8							Sport Sciences	WOS:000753944700019	34	Article; Article		
J	Roaas, Truls; Loras, Havard; Aune, Tore Kristian; Flakken, Boye; Dalen, Terje								Interacting Constraints and Relative Age Effect in Elite Cross-Country Skiers and Freeskiers								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				81	1			259	268		10.2478/hukin-2022-0020			FEB 10 2022	2022	Different characteristics of sports disciplines potentially lead to skewness in birth month distribution (relative age effect, RAE). These characteristics can be considered from a constraint-based approach with interacting environmental, task, and individual constraints as a theoretical framework with which to examine variations in RAE. The main aim of the present study was to examine the theoretical predictions of the constraint-based framework by investigating the birth month distribution in cross-country skiers and freeskiers at elite junior and senior levels. The sample was comprised of top ranked Norwegian U15-U19/20 cross-country skiers and junior-level freeskiers. Birth months of top ranked international senior-level skiers in cross-country and freeskiing were also collected. Results indicated an over-representation of skiers born in the first half versus the second half of the year at all junior ages in cross-country skiing. There was no significant difference in the distribution of birth months in freeskiing or in senior cross-country skiers or freeskiers. Based upon the interacting constraint framework, the skewness towards more early-born athletes in junior cross-country skiing could be due to strict age-grouped and results-oriented developmental programs beginning at an early age (environmental constraints) as well as high-demand for physical capabilities (task constraints) that favour more physically mature athletes (individual constraints). For freeskiing, the interacting environmental (less structured and more individualistic-oriented development), task (high technical/motor skill demands), and individual (no advantage of advanced physical maturation) constraints potentially operate in the opposite direction compared to cross-country skiing.		[Roaas, Truls; Aune, Tore Kristian; Flakken, Boye; Dalen, Terje] Nord Univ, Fac Educ & Arts, Dept Sport Sci, Sport & Human Movement Sci Res Grp SaHMS, Levanger, Norway; [Loras, Havard] Norwegian Univ Sci & Technol, Fac Social & Educ Sci, Dept Teacher Educ, Trondheim, Norway; [Roaas, Truls] Hogskolevegen, N-7600 Levanger, Norway								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:000753944700023	39	Article; Article		
J	Martinopoulou, Klimentini; Donti, Olyvia; Sands, William A.; Terzis, Gerasimos; Bogdanis, Gregory C.								Evaluation of the Isometric and Dynamic Rates of Force Development in Multi-Joint Muscle Actions								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				81	1			135	148		10.2478/hukin-2021-0130			FEB 10 2022	2022	The rate of force development (RFD) in the isometric leg press (ILP), the countermovement jump (CMJ) and the squat jump (SJ) were examined in twenty-three (9 females) team sport athletes aged 21-24 years. Peak force (Fpeak), peak rate of force development (RFDpeak) and RFD at different time epochs (0-50, 50-100, 100-150, 150-200) were calculated from the force-time curve, as well as CMJ and SJ height and the center of mass displacement. RFDpeak, RFD at 0-50, 50-100 and 100-150 ms and Fpeak were similar between the CMJ and the SJ (p = 0.26 to 0.99). Furthermore, RFD0-50 ms was similar between the ILP, the CMJ, and the SJ (p = 0.99 to 0.57). Higher values were observed in the ILP compared with the CMJ and the SJ in RFD50-100 ms and RFD100-150 ms (p < 0.001) and these differences were maintained even when RFD was scaled to body mass. The higher RFD normalized to Fpeak was attained at the 50-100 ms time interval with no differences between the ILP, CMJ and SJ and between males and females. These results suggest that the ability to exert rapid force is similar between the CMJ and the SJ, irrespective of the type of muscle action. Furthermore, RFD normalized to Fpeak is a muscle-force independent index of explosive force production, facilitating comparisons between individuals with different levels of muscle strength. The similarities between the CMJ and the SJ in RFDpeak, Fpeak, and RFD at different time epochs may imply that these types of jumps could be used interchangeably to assess explosive lower limb performance.		[Martinopoulou, Klimentini; Donti, Olyvia; Terzis, Gerasimos; Bogdanis, Gregory C.] Natl & Kapodistrian Univ Athens, Sch Phys Educ & Sport Sci, 41 Ethnikis Antistasis St, Athens, Greece; [Sands, William A.] Ski & Snowboard Assoc, Park City, UT USA; [Bogdanis, Gregory C.] Natl & Kapodistrian Univ Athens, Sch Phys Educ & Sport Sci, 41 Ethnikis Antistasis St, Athens, Greece								15							Sport Sciences	WOS:000753944700012	62	Article; Article		
J	Ravier, Gilles; Marcel-Millet, Philemon; Fostel, Charles; Baradat, Eric								Post-Exercise Cold- and Contrasting-Water Immersion Effects on Heart Rate Variability Recovery in International Handball Female Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				81	1			109	122		10.2478/hukin-2022-0010			FEB 10 2022	2022	This study aimed to investigate the effect of water immersion (WI) on cardiac parasympathetic reactivation during recovery from handball training sessions in elite female players during a two-week training camp. On the first three days of both weeks, players completed a crossover design with one of three 60-min delayed post-exercise WI protocols or passive rest (PAS). Recovery interventions consisted of a period of 6-min cold-WI (10 degrees C; CWI6) and two contrasting periods cold- and hot-WI (36 degrees C): one session included 3 min cold + 2 min hot + 3 min cold and the other session 5 x 2 min with cold at the very end. Short-term measures of heart rate variability (HRV) were collected before and after handball training sessions, and after WI. Derived parasympathetic HRV indices collected daily showed lower values post-training compared to pre-training values (p < 0.0001, large ES). Individual handball training sessions revealed similar clear depression of the vagal tone throughout the training camp. The comparison between each WI protocol and PAS revealed significant time x condition interaction particularly for CWI6. All parasympathetic indices revealed higher post-recovery values in CWI6 than PAS (p < 0.001 -p < 0.0001, with large ES ranging from 0.86 to 0.94). Surprisingly, 60-min delayed post-training WI revealed for most of parasympathetic HRV indices higher values than pre-training. This study highlighted that post-exercise parasympathetic disruption was exacerbated in response to handball training, and the 60-min delayed WI recovery interventions improved parasympathetic reactivity. Cardiac vagal tone can be highly improved with CWI6 compared to PAS. For the purpose of HRV modulations, CWI6 is recommended for short-term recovery.		[Ravier, Gilles; Marcel-Millet, Philemon; Fostel, Charles] Univ Franche Comte, Lab C3S EA 4660, Dept Sport & Performance, 31 Chemin Epitaphe, F-25000 Besancon, France; [Baradat, Eric] French Handball Federat, 1 Rue Costantini, F-94000 Creteil, France; [Ravier, Gilles] Unit Format & Res Sports, 31 Chemin Epitaphe, F-25000 Besancon, France								7							Sport Sciences	WOS:000753944700010	24	Article; Article		
J	Belcher, Suzanne; Whatman, Chris; Brughelli, Matt; Borotkanics, Robert								Improved performance in youth netballers using two different length netball specific warm-ups								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	1			231	239	17479541221077252	10.1177/17479541221077252			FEB 2023	2023	Purpose Neuromuscular warm-up has been shown to reduce injury risk and improve performance; however, barriers to implementation are common. To improve uptake by coaches Netball New Zealand developed two warm-ups of differing complexity and duration. This multi-site trial investigated the association between two netball specific warm-ups and improvements in performance outcome in youth netball players. Methods Twelve teams from six schools performed either the NetballSmart Dynamic Warm-up (NSDW, n = 37); or Power warm-up (PWU, n = 40), three times a week for 12 weeks. Performance was measured using 505 change-of-direction (COD), isometric mid-thigh pull (IMTP), Y-balance, vertical jump (VJ) and horizontal jump (HJ) tests. Paired t-tests assessed mean differences pre and post the interventions. Generalised linear mixed effects models evaluated effects between the NSDW and PWU groups. Results There was no significant difference between the NSDW or PWU for any of the outcomes (all p > 0.05). Significant improvements were found in Y-balance (NSDW: Right (R) = 6.4 cm, Left (L) = 7.5 cm, p = 0.001; PWU: R = 4.2 cm, p = 0.004, L = 4.2, p = 0.006) and IMTP (NSDW: 162N; p = 0.001 PWU: 151N, p = 0.001) for both warm-up groups, and the NSDW also enhanced 505 performance (-0.07 s, p = 0.024). VJ and HJ failed to improve for either warm-up. Conclusion Based on performance outcomes coaches should be free to choose the warm-up they feel best fits their team environment, reducing barriers to implementation. Additionally, they may benefit from adding further COD, horizontal and vertical jumping movements to either their warm-up or skills training sessions.		[Belcher, Suzanne; Whatman, Chris; Brughelli, Matt; Borotkanics, Robert] Auckland Univ Technol, Fac Hlth & Environm Sci, Sch Sport & Recreat, Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand, Auckland, New Zealand; [Belcher, Suzanne] Netball New Zealand, Auckland, New Zealand; [Belcher, Suzanne] Waikato Inst Technol Wintec Physiotherapy, Hamilton, New Zealand; [Belcher, Suzanne] 1-30 Akehurst Ave, Auckland 0600, New Zealand								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000759447700001	45	Article; Article		
J	Park, Sangchul; Lee, Shinhyoung; Lee, Hyun-Woo								Competence inference from muscle: how and when trainers' muscle mass impacts service purchase of personal fitness training								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				23	4			804	822		10.1108/IJSMS-08-2021-0162			AUG 19 2022	2022	Purpose This study aims to examine how and when trainers' muscle mass impacts service purchase of personal fitness training, drawing upon signaling theory. Specifically, the authors investigated (1) the mediating role of perceived competence in the relationship between trainers' muscle mass (highly vs moderately muscular) and customers' service registration intention and (2) the moderating role of customer expertise in this mediating mechanism. Design/methodology/approach The authors conceptualized trainers' muscle mass, developed its experimental stimuli and validated them through the two pretests (total n = 387). Using the validated stimuli, the authors conducted the two experiments (total n = 802). In both experiments, the authors recruited participants via MTurk using the convenience sampling method and employed a single-factor between-subject design based on random assignment. Findings Findings supported the authors' proporsed model. Consumers perceived highly (vs moderately) muscular trainers as more competent, which in turn engendered greater service registration intention. This effect emerged for expert consumers but not for novice consumers. Originality/value This study is one of the first attempts to empirically test the influence of trainers' muscle mass on consumer acquisition in the context of personal fitness training. It also expands the sport marketing literature to the consumer psychology and behavior fields addressing the characteristics of sport-service providers. The findings also provide fitness organizations with managerial insights into how to effectively leverage trainers' physical appearance as a marketing tool.		[Park, Sangchul; Lee, Hyun-Woo] Texas A&M Univ, Dept Hlth & Kinesiol, College Stn, TX 77843 USA; [Lee, Shinhyoung] Sookmyung Womens Univ, Div Business Adm, Seoul, South Korea; [Lee, Shinhyoung] Sookmyung Womens Univ, Div Business Adm, Seoul, South Korea								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000754688400001	55	Article; Article		
J	Chartogne, M.; Millour, G.; Garcia-Lopez, J.; Duc, S.; Rodriguez-Marroyo, J. A.; Pernia, R.; Bertucci, William								Acute effects of small changes in antero-posterior shoe-cleat position on physiological and biomechanical variables in road cycling								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				22	4			510	521		10.1080/14763141.2022.2034927			APR 3 2023	2023	The aim of this study was to investigate the effect of changes in cycling shoe-cleat position on pedalling biomechanics, physiological variables, and performance in road cycling. Twelve competitive road cyclists performed three pedalling trials with the cleat positioned at the first metatarsal head, 15-mm anterior and 15-mm posterior. Each trial included three sets of 5 min performed at 35%, 50%, and 65% of maximal aerobic power (MAP) followed by a 10-s sprint. Results showed no significant changes in physiological variables, pedalling kinetics, muscular activity of six lower limb muscles, sprint performance and perceived exertion. However, significant differences were found regarding joint kinematics: hip, knee, and ankle angles during both extension and flexion were reduced in the anterior cleat position. Therefore, this study suggests that cleat position does not affect sprint performance, physiological variables, pedalling kinetics, muscle activity, and perceived exertion regardless of the cycling intensity. However, joint kinematics, and particularly knee extension angle which could be related to the risk of overuse injuries, was affected by the shoe-cleat position.		[Chartogne, M.] Le Mans Univ, Movement Interact Performance Lab EA4334, Le Mans, France; [Chartogne, M.; Millour, G.; Duc, S.; Bertucci, William] Reims Univ, Performance Hlth Measurement Soc EA7507, Reims, France; [Garcia-Lopez, J.; Rodriguez-Marroyo, J. A.; Pernia, R.] Univ Leon, Fac Phys Act & Sports Sci, Inst Biomed IBIOMED, Dept Phys Educ & Sports, Leon, Spain; [Chartogne, M.] Le Mans Univ, Movement Interact Performance Lab EA4334, Le Mans, France; [Chartogne, M.] Reims Univ, Performance Hlth Measurement Soc EA7507, Reims, France								4							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000752246200001	35	Article; Article		
J	Fathian, Ramin; Khandan, Aminreza; Chiu, Loren Z. F.; Rouhani, Hossein								Assessment of countermovement jump with and without arm swing using a single inertial measurement unit								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	11			2390	2407		10.1080/14763141.2022.2032296			NOV 1 2024	2024	The countermovement vertical jump height, flight time, and jump duration are used to assess athletic performance. Force-plate and motion-capture cameras are used to estimate these parameters, yet, their application is limited to dedicated lab environments. Despite the potential of inertial measurement units (IMU) for estimating the jump height, their accuracy has not been validated. This study investigates the accuracy of our proposed method to estimate the jump height using a sacrum-mounted IMU, during countermovement jumping. Eleven individuals performed four jumps each. To obtain the jump height, we transformed the IMU readouts into anatomical planes, and double-integrated the vertical acceleration after correction for zero velocity and vertical displacement. The accuracy of jump height obtained by IMU was compared to force-plate and motion-capture cameras during jumps without arm swing (mean error (standard deviation) of 0.3(2.2) cm and 1.0(3.0) cm, and correlation coefficient of 0.83 and 0.82, respectively) and during jumps with arm swing (-1.1(2.1) cm and 0.5(1.9) cm, and 0.92 and 0.89). The correlation coefficients were high, and the errors were comparable to the difference between the jump height obtained by force-plate and cameras. Therefore, a sacrum-mounted IMU can be recommended for in-field assessment of countermovement jump with and without arm swing.		[Fathian, Ramin; Khandan, Aminreza; Rouhani, Hossein] Univ Alberta, Dept Mech Engn, Edmonton, AB, Canada; [Chiu, Loren Z. F.] Univ Alberta, Fac Kinesiol Sport & Recreat, Edmonton, AB, Canada; [Rouhani, Hossein] Univ Alberta, Dept Mech Engn, Edmonton, AB, Canada								19							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000751557900001	37	Article; Article		
J	James, Lachlan P.; Comfort, Paul								The reliability of novel, temporal-based dynamic strength index metrics								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	11			2408	2419		10.1080/14763141.2022.2032298			NOV 1 2024	2024	The purpose of this study was: i) to determine the reliability of alternate forms of the dynamic strength index (DSI) calculated over time-specific intervals that represent decisive actions in sport and ii) to assess the association between the original form of the DSI (DSItrad) and its variants. Twenty-three resistance-trained males (BM = 80.4 +/- 10.18 kg; age = 26.3 +/- 10.2 y; 1-RM squat kg/kg/BM = 1.61 +/- 0.37) performed trials of the countermovement jump (CMJ) and isometric squat. Several variations of the DSI were calculated by dividing the mean force in the CMJ by the mean force in the isometric squat calculated over the following epochs: 100 ms (DSI100), 150 ms (DSI150) and CMJ propulsive phase duration (DSIprop). In the fourth method, mean force across the CMJ propulsive phase duration was divided by mean force in the isometric squat between initiation and peak force (DSIpeak). All alternate DSI measures achieved acceptable absolute reliability (CV < 10%), however they did not achieve at least a moderate relative reliability. DSIprop (R-2 = 0.41), DSI100 (R-2 = 0.03) and DSI150 (R-2 = 0.14) demonstrated limited commonality with DSItrad. The alternate forms of DSI can cautiously be considered in strength assessment systems.		[James, Lachlan P.] La Trobe Univ, Sch Allied Hlth, Dept Dietet Nutr & Sport, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Comfort, Paul] Univ Salford, Directorate Psychol & Sport, Salford, Lancs, England; [Comfort, Paul] Edith Cowan Univ, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, Joondalup, Australia; [James, Lachlan P.] La Trobe Univ, Sch Allied Hlth, Dept Dietet Nutr & Sport, Melbourne, Vic, Australia								9							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000751565900001	28	Article; Article		
J	King, Mark A.; Kong, Pui W.; Yeadon, Maurice R.								Differences in the mechanics of takeoff in reverse and forward springboard somersaulting dives								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				22	2			255	267		10.1080/14763141.2022.2034929			FEB 1 2023	2023	Forward and reverse springboard somersaulting dives use similar approaches with a hurdle step prior to the final board contact phase during which forward rotation is produced in forward takeoffs and backward rotation in reverse takeoffs. This study compared forward and reverse takeoffs for joint strength, activation complexity, technique kinematics, and rotation potential. A planar 8-segment torque-driven computer simulation model of springboard diving takeoff was used to determine isometric joint strength by matching performances of a forward 21/2 somersault dive and a reverse 11/2 somersault dive. Activation complexity for the reverse takeoff was increased to achieve a similar closeness of match as for the forward takeoff. Takeoff technique was optimised to maximise rotation potential of forward and reverse somersaulting dives. Kinematics at touchdown, lowest point and takeoff were compared for the optimised forward and reverse takeoff simulations. It was found that the optimised reverse somersaulting dive exhibited greater isometric strength for ankle plantarflexion and shoulder flexion, greater joint torque activation complexity for ankle plantarflexion and for knee flexion. There was also less forward motion during board depression, more hip extension and knee flexion during the later stages of board recoil, less capacity for rotation potential, and greater vertical velocity at takeoff.		[King, Mark A.; Yeadon, Maurice R.] Loughborough Univ, Sch Sport Exercise & Hlth Sci, Loughborough, Leics, England; [Kong, Pui W.] Nanyang Technol Univ, Phys Educ & Sports Sci Acad Grp, Natl Inst Educ, Singapore, Singapore; [King, Mark A.] Loughborough Univ, Sch Sport Exercise & Hlth Sci, Loughborough, Leics, England								1							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000751541700001	32	Article; Article		
J	Moeskops, Sylvia; Oliver, Jon L.; Read, Paul J.; Cronin, John B.; Myer, Gregory D.; Lloyd, Rhodri S.								Practical Strategies for Integrating Strength and Conditioning Into Early Specialization Sports								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				44	1			34	45		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000665			FEB 2022	2022	Early sport specialization involves physically immature children participating in intensive year-round training and/or competition for a single sport. The lack of sport exposure and diversification during the developmental years may underlie the increased risk of overuse injuries, blunting of motor skill development, psychosocial issues, overtraining syndrome, burnout, and potential dropout from sport. With increasing number of youth choosing, or being encouraged, to specialize at an early age, we aim to provide evidence-based recommendations for the integration of strength and conditioning into the development programs of young athletes who participate in sports with a culture of early specialization. In addition to the principles of programming, strategies are provided relative to monitoring of growth, maturation, and training load to illustrate the potential complexities of attempting to optimize long-term athletic development in early specializing athletes.		[Moeskops, Sylvia; Oliver, Jon L.; Lloyd, Rhodri S.] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Cardiff Sch Sport, Youth Phys Dev Ctr, Cardiff, Wales; [Oliver, Jon L.; Cronin, John B.; Lloyd, Rhodri S.] AUT Univ, Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand SPRINZ, Auckland, New Zealand; [Read, Paul J.] Inst Sport Exercise & Hlth, London, England; [Read, Paul J.] Univ Gloucestershire, Sch Sport & Exercise, Gloucester, England; [Read, Paul J.] UCL, Div Surg & Intervent Sci, London, England; [Myer, Gregory D.] Emory Sport Performance & Res Ctr, Flowery Branch, GA USA; [Myer, Gregory D.] Emory Sports Med Ctr, Atlanta, GA USA; [Myer, Gregory D.] Emory Univ, Sch Med, Dept Orthopaed, Atlanta, GA USA; [Myer, Gregory D.] Micheli Ctr Sports Injury Prevent, Boston, MA USA; [Lloyd, Rhodri S.] Waikato Inst Technol, Ctr Sport Sci & Human Performance, Hamilton, New Zealand; [Moeskops, Sylvia] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Cardiff Sch Sport, Youth Phys Dev Ctr, Cardiff, Wales								13							Sport Sciences	WOS:000748375300003	84	Article; Article		
J	McBurnie, Alistair J.; Dos'Santos, Thomas								Multidirectional Speed in Youth Soccer Players: Theoretical Underpinnings								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				44	1			15	33		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000658			FEB 2022	2022	This review provides a definition for multidirectional speed (MDS) and evaluates its technical and mechanical underpinnings. This review explores each component of MDS while considering unique aspects of youth physiology and epidemiology. With a theoretical understanding of MDS, practitioners will be more informed on the planning and periodization of MDS training methods in soccer. MDS comprises linear speed, change of direction speed, curvilinear speed, contextual speed, and agility, which each have distinct physiological, biomechanical, and neurocognitive distinctions that can either be differentiated or harmonized to optimize training.		[McBurnie, Alistair J.] Manchester United Football Club, Dept Football Med & Sci, AON Training Complex, Manchester, Lancs, England; [Dos'Santos, Thomas] Manchester Metropolitan Univ, Musculoskeletal Sci & Sports Med Res Ctr, Dept Sport & Exercise Sci, Manchester, Lancs, England; [McBurnie, Alistair J.] Manchester United Football Club, Dept Football Med & Sci, AON Training Complex, Manchester, Lancs, England								48							Sport Sciences	WOS:000748375300002	214	Article; Article		
J	Mota, Tomas; Afonso, Jose; Sa, Mario; Clemente, Filipe M.								An Agility Training Continuum for Team Sports: From Cones and Ladders to Small-Sided Games								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				44	1			46	56		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000653			FEB 2022	2022	Agility is a key and complex concept within team sports performance. Because of its multidimensional nature, agility benefits from perceptual and cognitive skills as well as physical capacity (e.g., ability to exert acceleration, deceleration, and changes of direction). Agility should be integrated in different and complementary ways in team sports training. From more analytical to more ecological tasks, there is a need to comprehend the respective adaptations and identify how to integrate such a spectrum and, eventually, combine them in the training process and manage it accordingly to the player's needs. Based on this premise, the purpose of this article is to present alternative methods and recommendations that may help to develop agility in field-based invasion sports. The main concepts pertaining to agility and associated capacities will be explored. Afterward, a proposal for a more analytical approach based on the use of cones and ladders will be introduced, as well as approaches based on small-sided games. Finally, an integration of agility training and a combination of approaches will be presented using soccer as an example.		[Afonso, Jose] Univ Porto, Fac Sport, Ctr Res Educ Innovat & Intervent Sport, Porto, Portugal; [Sa, Mario] Univ Lisbon, Fac Human Kinet, Lisbon, Portugal; [Clemente, Filipe M.] Inst Politecn Viana do Castelo, Escola Super Desporto & Lazer, Rua Escola Ind & Comercial NunAlvares, Viana Do Castelo, Portugal; [Clemente, Filipe M.] Inst Telecomunicacoes, Lisbon, Portugal; [Clemente, Filipe M.] Inst Politecn Viana do Castelo, Escola Super Desporto & Lazer, Rua Escola Ind & Comercial NunAlvares, Viana Do Castelo, Portugal; [Clemente, Filipe M.] Inst Telecomunicacoes, Lisbon, Portugal								20							Sport Sciences	WOS:000748375300004	48	Article; Article		
J	Clermont, Christian; Barrons, Zachary B.; Esposito, Michael; Dominguez, Eugene; Culo, Marina; Wannop, John W.; Stefanyshyn, Darren								The influence of midsole shear on running economy and smoothness with a 3D-printed midsole								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				22	3			410	421		10.1080/14763141.2022.2029936			MAR 4 2023	2023	The objectives of this study were to first determine whether a newly designed 3D-printed midsole, configured with a mechanism to increase anterior-posterior deformation, could increase anterior midsole shear during the stance phase of running. We then wanted to determine whether these shoes could affect running economy and smoothness. Two footwear conditions, differing in midsole technology, were used in this study. The control condition consisted of a thermoplastic polyurethane midsole (TPU-Control), whereas the prototype shoes (3D-Shear) were constructed with a 3D-printed lattice midsole designed for greater anterior foot displacement during early to mid-stance. Twenty male participants ran on a treadmill for 6 min in each condition, and data were collected during the final 2 min. Midsole shear was measured using 3D kinematic data; running smoothness was quantified with peak acceleration and jerk magnitudes from the foot, sacrum, and head; and running economy was determined with oxygen consumption data. As hypothesised, the anterior midsole shear was greater in the 3D-Shear condition compared to the TPU-Control. The 3D-Shear did not improve running economy. Runners exhibited significantly lower peak accelerations at the sacrum, along with lower magnitudes of jerk at the foot, sacrum, and head in the 3D-Shear condition, indicating smoother running patterns.		[Clermont, Christian; Barrons, Zachary B.; Dominguez, Eugene; Culo, Marina; Wannop, John W.; Stefanyshyn, Darren] Univ Calgary, Fac Kinesiol, Human Performance Lab, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Esposito, Michael] Univ Calgary, Biomed Engn Grad Program, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Clermont, Christian] Univ Calgary, Fac Kinesiol, Human Performance Lab, Calgary, AB, Canada								12							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000747579700001	27	Article; Article		
J	Rittenberg, Benjamin S. P.; Neyedli, Heather F.; Young, Bradley W.; Dithurbide, Lori								The influence of coaching efficacy on trust and usage of technology in golf instruction								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	4			713	721	17479541211061703	10.1177/17479541211061703			AUG 2022	2022	The rise of technology in sport has provided coaches with another tool to aid athlete development, but there is little research on its relationship to coaching practices. Research in non-sport domains has demonstrated a relationship between user trust in and use of technology. The user's confidence can also affect this relationship, where higher confidence is typically associated with less technology use. Minimal work has examined factors that influence technology use within the sports domain; therefore, the present study sought to determine whether coaching experience and coaching efficacy could predict golf coaches' use of technology in training. A one-time survey that gathered demographic information, and measured coaching experience, coaching technique efficacy, trust in technology and use of technology was completed by 83 registered Professional Golfer's Association golf coaches and instructors. Results showed that coaching technique efficacy was predictive of coaches' use of technology in training, where more technique efficacy resulted in increased use of technology. Mediation analyses showed that this association was mediated by their levels of trust in technology. There was no relationship between coaching experience and use of technology. Therefore, coaching technique efficacy, rather than experience, seems to be an important variable in predicting coaches' use of technology in training and instruction. Further, because higher efficacy predicted increased usage, the results illustrate the differences between the sport training environment and other non-sport domains regarding the factors that influence technology use. These findings are an important first step towards investigating how technology can be used by coaches to best improve athlete performance.		[Rittenberg, Benjamin S. P.; Neyedli, Heather F.; Dithurbide, Lori] Dalhousie Univ, Sch Hlth & Human Performance, Stairs House,POB 15000,6230 South St, Halifax, NS B3H 4R2, Canada; [Young, Bradley W.] Univ Ottawa, Sch Human Kinet, Ottawa, ON, Canada; [Dithurbide, Lori] Dalhousie Univ, Sch Hlth & Human Performance, Stairs House,POB 15000,6230 South St, Halifax, NS B3H 4R2, Canada								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000751430000001	35	Article; Article		
J	Wang, Jerred Junqi; Qian, Tyreal Yizhou; Li, Bo; Mastromartino, Brandon								Reversing equity transfer in sponsorship for competitive advantage of emerging local events: quantitative evidence from an experimental study								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				23	4			748	766		10.1108/IJSMS-08-2021-0172			AUG 19 2022	2022	Purpose - Built upon the balance theory and schema theory, this study examined the impact of sponsors' intangible attributes, including consumer-based brand equity (CBBE) and brand-event image fit (BEIF), on consumer responses to emerging local events (ELEs), as well as major boundary conditions of this mechanism. Design/methodology/approach - Theoretical hypotheses were tested using multivariate analysis of covariance and structural equation modeling with the data from two experiments: the experiment in the pilot study was used to calibrate sponsor stimuli, and the experiment in the main study was designed to assess consumer responses to different sponsor-event combinations. Findings - Results of this experimental study illustrated the dominant role of CBBE in influencing individuals' perceived event value and intention to participate in the context of ELEs and revealed the noticeable but limited moderating effects of BEIF and sport identification. Originality/value - This study highlighted the importance of sponsorship in the marketing communications of ELEs and suggested prioritizing the overall attributes of sponsors in the sponsor-selection. This study also called for more research attention directed toward the intangible benefits that sporting events could receive from sponsorship deals.		[Wang, Jerred Junqi; Li, Bo] Miami Univ, Dept Sport Leadership & Management, Oxford, OH 45056 USA; [Qian, Tyreal Yizhou] Louisiana State Univ, Sch Kinesiol, Baton Rouge, LA USA; [Mastromartino, Brandon] Southern Methodist Univ, Dept Appl Physiol & Wellness, Dallas, TX USA; [Wang, Jerred Junqi] Miami Univ, Dept Sport Leadership & Management, Oxford, OH 45056 USA								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000749578600001	66	Article; Article		
J	Charamis, Evangelos; Marmarinos, Christos; Ntzoufras, Ioannis								Estimating team possessions in high-level European basketball competition								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	1			220	230	17479541211070788	10.1177/17479541211070788			FEB 2023	2023	The focus of this work is to estimate the number of team possessions in Euroleague basketball for seasons 2017-18, 2018-19 and 2019-20. To achieve this goal, we implemented the approaches proposed by Kubatko, et al. (2007). The statistical analysis on Euroleague data suggests a model similar to the one which is currently used in NBA with one, minor, difference. In Euroleague data, the coefficient of the percentage of the free throw attempts that ends a current possession is slightly higher than the corresponding coefficient in NBA (0.454 vs. 0.44). In a second stage, we have implemented the estimated Euroleague possessions equation in order to construct indicators for the performance evaluation of each Euroleague team. The most important indexes for team performance evaluation are the Net Rating and the Four Factors of Dean Oliver (2003). However, by applying a backwards stepwise regression analysis, a slightly improved model, in terms of fit to the data, has been identified. The new proposed "Three Pillars" model includes the offensive and defensive True Shooting percentage, Offensive Rebound percentage and Turnover percentage. Hence, this new proposed "Three Pillars" model can be used for the performance evaluation of European teams instead of the standard Four Factors model.		[Charamis, Evangelos; Marmarinos, Christos; Ntzoufras, Ioannis] Athens Univ Econ & Business, AUEB Sports Analyt Grp, Computat & Bayesian Stat Lab, Dept Stat, Athens, Greece; [Ntzoufras, Ioannis] Athens Univ Econ & Business, AUEB Sports Analyt Grp, Computat & Bayesian Stat Lab, Dept Stat, Athens, Greece								11							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000751317100001	21	Article; Article		
J	Boer, Pieter-Henk; Schwellnus, Martin P.; Jordaan, Esme								Chronic diseases and allergies are risk factors predictive of a history of Medial Tibial Stress Syndrome (MTSS) in distance runners: SAFER study XXIV								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				51	2			166	174		10.1080/00913847.2021.2021597			MAR 4 2023	2023	Background Medial Tibial Stress Syndrome (MTSS) is one of the most common causes of exercise-associated lower leg pain in distance runners. Aim To identify risk factors predictive of a history of MTSS in distance runners entering the Two Oceans Marathon races (21.1 km and 56 km). Design Cross-sectional study. Setting 2012 to 2015 Two Oceans Marathon races (21.1 km and 56 km). Participants Consenting race entrants. Methods 106,743 race entrants completed an online pre-race medical screening questionnaire. 76,654 consenting runners (71.8%) were studied. 558 verified MTSS injuries were reported in the previous 12 months. Risk factors predictive of a history of MTSS were explored using uni - & multivariate analyses: demographics (race distance, sex, and age groups), training/racing history, history of chronic diseases, allergies, and medication use. Results Independent risk factors predictive of a history of MTSS (adjusted for sex, age group, and race distance) were a higher chronic disease composite score (PR = 3.1 times increase risk for every two additional chronic diseases; p < 0.0001) and a history of allergies (PR = 1.9; p < 0.0001). Chronic diseases (PR > 2) predictive of a history of MTSS were: symptoms of CVD (PR = 4.2; p < 0.0001); GIT disease (PR = 3.3; p < 0.0001); kidney/bladder disease (PR = 3.3; p < 0.0001); nervous system/psychiatric disease (PR = 3.2; p < 0.0001); respiratory disease (PR = 2.9; p < 0.0001) a history of CVD (PR = 2.9; p < 0.0001); and risk factors of CVD (PR = 2.4; p < 0.0001) (univariate analysis). Average running speed was associated with higher risk of MTSS. Conclusion Novel independent risk factors predictive of a history of MTSS in distance runners (56 km, 21.1 km) were multiple chronic diseases and a history of allergies. Identifying athletes at higher risk for MTSS can guide healthcare professionals in their prevention and rehabilitation efforts.		[Boer, Pieter-Henk] Cape Peninsula Univ Technol, Dept Human Movement Sci, Wellington, South Africa; [Schwellnus, Martin P.] Univ Pretoria, Fac Hlth Sci, Sport Exercise Med & Lifestyle Inst Semli, Hpc Sports Campus,Burnett St, ZA-0020 Pretoria, South Africa; [Schwellnus, Martin P.] Int Olymp Comm IOC, Res Ctr, Pretoria, South Africa; [Schwellnus, Martin P.] Univ Cape Town, Fac Hlth Sci, Rondebosch, South Africa; [Jordaan, Esme] South African Med Res Council, Biostat Unit, Cape Town, South Africa; [Schwellnus, Martin P.] Univ Pretoria, Fac Hlth Sci, Sport Exercise Med & Lifestyle Inst Semli, Hpc Sports Campus,Burnett St, ZA-0020 Pretoria, South Africa								6							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000746476200001	51	Article; Article		
J	Carter, Joshua Autton; Rivadulla, Adrian Rodriguez; Preatoni, Ezio								A support vector machine algorithm can successfully classify running ability when trained with wearable sensor data from anatomical locations typical of consumer technology								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	11			2372	2389		10.1080/14763141.2022.2027509			NOV 1 2024	2024	Greater understanding of differences in technique between runners may allow more beneficial feedback related to improving performance and decreasing injury risk. The purpose of this study was to develop and test a support vector machine classifier, which could automatically differentiate running technique between experienced and novice participants using only wearable sensor data. Three-dimensional linear accelerations and angular velocities were collected from six wearable sensors secured to current common smart device locations. Cross-validation was used to test the classification accuracy of models trained with a variety of combinations of sensor locations, with participants running at different speeds. Average classification accuracies ranged from 71.3% to 98.4% across the sensor combinations and running speeds tested. Models trained with only a single sensor location still showed effective classification. With the models trained with only upper arm data achieving an average accuracy of 96.4% across all tested running speeds. A post-hoc comparison of biomechanical variables between the two subgroups showed significant differences in upper body biomechanics throughout the stride. Both the methodology used to perform the classifications and the biomechanical differences identified could prove useful when aiming to shift a novice runner's technique towards movement patterns more akin to those with greater experience.		[Carter, Joshua Autton; Rivadulla, Adrian Rodriguez; Preatoni, Ezio] Univ Bath, Dept Hlth, Bath, Avon, England; [Carter, Joshua Autton] Univ Bath, Dept Hlth, Bath, Avon, England								14							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000744890600001	34	Article; Article		
J	Brook, Stacey L.								What is the Impact of Post-Season Bowl Participation on a Football Program's On-Field Success, Recruiting and Revenues?								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				23	7			976	988	15270025221074692	10.1177/15270025221074692			OCT 2022	2022	Previous research examines the impact college athletic success has on state appropriations, donations, student applications, and academic reputation, but not on the impact college athletic success has on an individual athletic program directly. Since nearly 70% of post-season bowl game Football Bowl Subdivision (FBS) participants incur bowl game financial losses, are there future benefits from post-season bowl game participation for the football program? The empirical results show prior post-season bowl participation has positive impacts on current recruiting and revenues, but not performance. Finally, 92% of programs cover their current bowl game financial losses from higher future variable revenues attributed to current bowl participation.		[Brook, Stacey L.] De Paul Univ, Driehaus Coll Business, Dept Econ, 1 E Jackson Blvd, Chicago, IL 60604 USA; [Brook, Stacey L.] De Paul Univ, Driehaus Coll Business, Dept Econ, 1 E Jackson Blvd, Chicago, IL 60604 USA								4							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000749367500001	22	Article; Article		
J	Partner, Richard; Jones, Ben; Tee, Jason; Francis, Peter								Playing through the pain: The prevalence of perceived shoulder dysfunction in uninjured rugby players using the Rugby Shoulder Score								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				54				53	57		10.1016/j.ptsp.2022.01.001			MAR 2022	2022	Objective: This study aimed to investigate the prevalence of self-reported shoulder dysfunction using the Rugby Shoulder Score (RSS) reported in arbitrary units (AU) of rugby players available for match selection (uninjured). Design: Cross-sectional survey. Methods: Paper survey at the mid-point of the season of uninjured players (n = 86 males (mean age (+/- SD): 26 +/- 6.9y) from 8 squads (professional n = 34; amateur; n = 52)), using the RSS, subjective impact on rugby performance and previous shoulder injury, analysed using a Mann-Whitney U test. Results: 55% of players reported a level of RSS dysfunction despite being uninjured. Players who also reported their shoulder was impacting on performance had significantly higher median RSS (61, IQR 28AU, p = 0.02) than those who reported no impact on performance (40, IQR 22AU). Conclusions: Findings from this study show that over half of players were playing with a level of self-reported shoulder dysfunction. This figure is higher in the professional game, for those with a history of previous injury and for forwards. (c) 2022 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).		[Partner, Richard] Leeds Beckett Univ, Sch Clin & Appl Sci, Musculoskeletal Hlth Res Grp, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England; [Partner, Richard; Jones, Ben; Tee, Jason] Leeds Beckett Univ, Carnegie Appl Rugby Res CARR Ctr, Inst Sport Phys Act & Leisure, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England; [Jones, Ben] Leeds Rhinos Rugby League Club, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England; [Jones, Ben] Rugby Football League, England Performance Unit, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England; [Jones, Ben] Univ New England, Sch Sci & Technol, Armidale, NSW, Australia; [Jones, Ben] Univ Cape Town, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Human Biol, Div Exercise Sci & Sports Med, Cape Town, South Africa; [Jones, Ben] Sports Sci Inst South Africa, Cape Town, South Africa; [Tee, Jason] Durban Univ Technol, Fac Appl Sci, Dept Sport Studies, Durban, South Africa; [Francis, Peter] Inst Technol Carlow, Rehabil Sci Res Ctr RSRC, Dept Sci & Hlth, Carlow, Ireland; [Partner, Richard] Leeds Beckett Univ, PD620,City Campus, Leeds LS1 3HE, W Yorkshire, England								8							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000763559900007	30	Article; Article		
J	Farias, Sara Goncalves; Rodrigues, Mariana; da Costa, Stephanie Dias; de Macedo, Adriana Ribeiro; Nogueira-Campos, Anaelli A.; Cavalcanti Garcia, Marco Antonio; Imbiriba, Luis Aureliano								Cardiorespiratory and Emotional Responses During Balance Exercises								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	1			186	193		10.1080/02701367.2021.1953691			JAN 2 2023	2023	Purpose: Physical exercises on unstable surfaces have been largely applied for clinical practice as well as in sports training. Although the unsteadiness can lead to physiological and psychological adaptations, little is known about the autonomic and emotional acute responses during the practice of balance exercises. This study aimed to evaluate both cardiorespiratory and emotional responses while standing on different unstable surfaces. Methods: Eighty-eight healthy participants performed postural balance tasks in three experimental conditions: (1) a rigid surface (control); (2) balance pad; and (3) the Both Sides Up (BOSU) ball. Respiratory activity was recorded through the thoracic movement and the heart rate variability by the electrocardiographic signal during the balance tasks. After the participants evaluated the level of perceived stability and emotional aspects related to each experimental condition. Results: The main results showed that BOSU condition was perceived as more unstable, unpleasant, with higher arousal and lower dominance levels (p < .05). Accordingly, participants had also an increase in the mean respiratory frequency and heart rate (p < .05). Conclusion: These results showed that the postural task with greater instability prompted congruent physiological adjustments to ensure the homeostasis in the more challenging condition. Therefore, the cardiorespiratory and emotional responses should be considered to ensure the safety and benefits in rehabilitation programs in which the exercise progression is based on unstable surfaces.		[Farias, Sara Goncalves; Rodrigues, Mariana; da Costa, Stephanie Dias; Cavalcanti Garcia, Marco Antonio; Imbiriba, Luis Aureliano] Univ Fed Rio de Janeiro, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil; [de Macedo, Adriana Ribeiro] Inst Fed Educ Ciencia & Tecnol Rio de Janeiro, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil; [Nogueira-Campos, Anaelli A.; Cavalcanti Garcia, Marco Antonio] Univ Fed Juiz de Fora, Juiz De Fora, Brazil; [Imbiriba, Luis Aureliano] Univ Fed Rio de Janeiro, Nucle Estudos Movimento Humano Nemoh, Av Carlos Chagas Filho 540,Cidade Univ, BR-21941599 Rio De Janeiro, RJ, Brazil								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000743803700001	34	Article; Article		
J	De Waelle, S.; Robertson, K.; Deconinck, F. J. A.; Lenoir, M.								The Use of Contextual Information for Anticipation of Badminton Shots in Different Expertise Levels								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	1			15	23		10.1080/02701367.2021.1934378			JAN 2 2023	2023	Purpose: The current study investigated the use of contextual information for anticipation in badminton. Method: Participants were groups of elites (n = 26), competitive (n = 15) and novice players (n = 17) whose anticipation accuracy and reaction time were assessed using an ecologically valid badminton specific video-based occlusion test. Two conditions were presented, where either only kinematic information was available (Last Strokes condition, LS), or kinematic and contextual information were both available (Full Rally condition, FR). Results: Participants reacted slower in the FR condition, while no differences in accuracy were observed between the two conditions. Furthermore, all participants were better at side predictions than length, and elites outperformed novices in both side and length predictions. Among the elite group (which was split into adult elites, adult sub-elites & young elites), adult elite athletes showed faster responses for both the LS and FR conditions compared to their other elite counterparts who were much slower in both conditions. Conclusion: These results indicate that even at the highest level, anticipation performance can discriminate between groups of expert performers. In addition, the findings of this study indicate that the role of contextual information might not be as large as hypothesized, and further research is needed to clarify the role of contextual information toward anticipation.		[De Waelle, S.; Robertson, K.; Deconinck, F. J. A.; Lenoir, M.] Univ Ghent, Ghent, Belgium; [De Waelle, S.] Univ Ghent, Dept Movement & Sports Sci, Watersportlaan 2, B-9000 Ghent, Belgium								12							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000744816000001	40	Article; Article		
J	Yukhymenko-Lescroart, Mariya A.; Sharma, Gitima								The role of coaching identity and life purpose orientations in holistic athlete development								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	3			477	489	17479541211073546	10.1177/17479541211073546			JUN 2022	2022	Life purpose plays an important role in the wellbeing of adults. The current study considered domain-general and domain-specific purpose of NCAA coaches to examine whether purpose orientation in life predicted coaching purpose related to holistic athlete development directly and indirectly through coaching identity. A cross-sectional design was used. Collegiate coaches (N = 380, 62.1% male) from NCAA Division I and III institutions completed questionnaires assessing purpose orientation (career-focused, others-growth, and self-growth), coaching identity (winning-centered, holistic development-centered), and coaching purpose related to athlete development (sport-specific competence, sport-general competence, confidence, connection, and character). Structural equation modeling indicated the following: Coaching purpose related to sport-specific competence was predicted directly and indirectly via winning-centered coaching identity by career-focused purpose orientation. The four dimensions of coaching purpose (sport-general competence, confidence, connection, and character) were predicted indirectly via development-centered coaching identity by others-growth purpose orientation and by career-focused purpose orientation. Others-growth purpose orientation emerged as a significant direct predictor of coaching purpose related to connection. Inconsistent mediation emerged between others-growth purpose orientation and coaching purpose related to confidence. Overall, the findings highlight that purpose orientation can predict coaching purpose and that coaching identity centered around athletes' holistic development and growth plays a salient role in explaining these relationships.		[Yukhymenko-Lescroart, Mariya A.] Calif State Univ Fresno, Dept Curriculum & Instruct, 5005 N Maple Ave,M-S ED 2, Fresno, CA 93740 USA; [Sharma, Gitima] Calif State Univ Fresno, Dept Counselor Educator & Rehabil, Fresno, CA 93740 USA; [Yukhymenko-Lescroart, Mariya A.] Calif State Univ Fresno, Dept Curriculum & Instruct, 5005 N Maple Ave,M-S ED 2, Fresno, CA 93740 USA								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000748793100001	44	Article; Article		
J	Gong, Hua								The Effect of the Crowd on Home Bias: Evidence from NBA Games During the COVID-19 Pandemic								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				23	7			950	975	15270025211073337	10.1177/15270025211073337			OCT 2022	2022	The present study examines a specific type of referee biases, home bias, and analyzes how the presence of fans affects home bias by using NBA games played in empty arenas during the COVID-19 pandemic in the 2020-2021 season and matches played before the pandemic from 2017 to 2020. This research also uses a unique data set from NBA Last Two Minute Reports to assess referees' performance at the play level. The findings show crowd support does not cause referees to treat home and away teams differently in crucial situations during the NBA regular season, contrary to the results in most prior studies.		[Gong, Hua] Rice Univ, Dept Sport Management, Houston, TX 77005 USA; [Gong, Hua] Rice Univ, Dept Sport Management, Houston, TX 77005 USA								30							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000748751700001	48	Article; Article		
J	Yuan, Shaofeng; Gao, Ying								When sports sponsorship incurs brand risk: the roles of team performance, brand familiarity and team identification								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				23	4			767	784		10.1108/IJSMS-10-2021-0198			AUG 19 2022	2022	Purpose This study investigated the potential negative effects of a sponsored team's losing performance on audiences' trust and purchase intention toward the sponsoring brand. Shedding light on the moderating role of sponsoring brand familiarity among audiences and audience team identification regarding such negative effects, the study establishes when sports sponsorship may incur risk to a sponsoring brand. Design/methodology/approach Three experimental designs (audience as stimulus of a team's losing vs control condition) were used to indicate whether and when losing performance influences participants' trust and purchase intention toward the sponsoring brand. Findings The participants in the losing condition report lower brand trust and purchase intention. Brand trust mediates the relationship between losing results and decreased purchase intention. The negative effects of losing on brand trust and purchase intention only appear when the sponsoring brand has low familiarity among audiences and only for audiences with low identification. Practical implications The strategy of a brand with low familiarity sponsoring a team that frequently loses has risks and is not worth advocating. However, if an unknown brand has already sponsored a team that often loses, the efforts to cultivate audiences' identification with the team can reduce the potential risks. Originality/value The affirmed negative effects of losing performance on brand trust and purchase intention have value for firm sponsorship decisions. This study contributes to the sponsorship literature by revealing two boundary conditions (sponsoring brand familiarity and audiences' team identification) for those negative effects.		[Yuan, Shaofeng] Liaoning Univ, Business Sch, Shenyang, Peoples R China; [Gao, Ying] Liaoning Univ, Sun Wah Int Business Sch, Shenyang, Peoples R China; [Yuan, Shaofeng] Liaoning Univ, Business Sch, Shenyang, Peoples R China								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000748480800001	42	Article; Article		
J	Sanz-Remacha, Maria; Garcia-Gonzalez, Luis; Sevil Serrano, Javier; Aibar Solana, Alberto								A Qualitative Evaluation of a Community-Based Intervention on Health-Related Behaviors in Disadvantaged Women								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	1			272	282		10.1080/02701367.2021.1971149			JAN 2 2023	2023	Purpose: Grounded in social ecological model and self-determination theory, the aim of this study was to qualitatively evaluate the first and second year follow-ups of a community-based healthy lifestyle programme on health-related behaviors, and outcomes in disadvantaged adult women. Methods: Eleven disadvantaged adult women (M = 37.72; SD = 8.34) (seven of them from the Roma population) participated in this community-based participatory action research. Discussion groups, semi-structured interviews, and field notes were used to assess the effects of the intervention programme on health-related behaviors and health outcomes through thematic analysis. Results: Women perceived improvements in PA-related variables, healthy eating, and other health-related outcomes throughout two years. Most women mentioned these behavior changes in the first year, while others perceived them in the second year. Conclusions: These findings highlight the importance of developing contextual and culturally tailored interventions that address the specific problems and needs that emerge from ethnic groups. Given that some of these behavior changes were only mentioned by most of these women in the second year, long-term interventions seem to be ideally required in this population.		[Sanz-Remacha, Maria; Garcia-Gonzalez, Luis; Sevil Serrano, Javier; Aibar Solana, Alberto] Univ Zaragoza, Huesca, Spain; [Sanz-Remacha, Maria] Univ Zaragoza, Fac Hlth & Sport Sci, Dept Didact Mus Plast & Corporal Express, Plaza Univ 3, Huesca 22001, Spain								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000742304200001	73	Article; Article		
J	Ceylan, Bayram; Barley, Oliver R.; Balci, Sukru Serdar								Changes in body mass and hydration status in judo athletes before and after a top-level competition: a descriptive case study								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				51	3			228	233		10.1080/00913847.2022.2026200			MAY 4 2023	2023	Objectives The International Judo Federation (IJF) implemented new regulations in an attempt to regulate rapid weight loss in 2013. The body weight of the athletes cannot be more than 5% higher than the upper limits of their weight categories at the weight check for randomly selected athletes from each weight category before the competition. However, therea lack of studies demonstrating rapid weight loss and hydration status of elite judo athletes in a real match atmosphere under the current refereeing rules. Thus, this study aimed to examine the body mass and hydration changes of elite judo athletes a week before the competition, official weigh-in, and 24 hours after competition. Methods Eight high-level male judo athletes voluntarily participated in this study. Body mass and urinary measures of hydration status were collected a week before, at the official weigh-in and 24-hour post-weigh-in. Results The one-way repeated-measures ANOVA showed a significant main effect of time on body mass (p < 0.001). Body mass decreased by 5.4 +/- 0.7 kg or 6.8% from a week before the competition to official weigh-in (p < 0.001) and increased by 3.0 +/- 1.1 kg or 4.2% from official weigh-in to 24-h post-competition (p < 0.001). A significant effect of time was also found in both urine-specific gravity (USG) (p < 0.001) and urine color (UC) among the measurements (p = 0.001). Athletes' USG values were at the highest level (USG = 1.030 +/- 0.001) at the official weigh-in, while they decreased significantly at 24-hour post-competition (USG = 1.017 +/- 0.007). Conclusion The results showed that elite judo athletes resort to rapid weight loss and present dehydration despite established regulations by the IJF.		[Ceylan, Bayram] Kastamonu Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Coaching Educ, Kastamonu, Turkey; [Barley, Oliver R.] Edith Cowan Univ, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, Joondalup, Australia; [Balci, Sukru Serdar] Selcuk Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Coaching Educ, Konya, Turkey; [Ceylan, Bayram] Kastamonu Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Coaching Educ, Kastamonu, Turkey								14							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000742229400001	53	Article; Article		
J	Teo, Cheryl Jia Hui; Burns, Stephen Francis; Kawabata, Masato								Developing Nutrition Knowledge and Attitude Measures for Athletes With the Knowledge-Attitude-Behavior Model								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	1			110	117		10.1080/02701367.2021.1942771			JAN 2 2023	2023	Purpose: Nutrition education programmes are often created to improve dietary intake in athletes. Unfortunately, the inconsistent link between nutrition knowledge and dietary behavior suggests that nutrition knowledge may not be a key influencer of dietary behavior. The Knowledge-Attitude-Behavior (KAB) model has been used in nutrition education although studies that evaluated this model were largely compromised by poorly constructed instruments and methodological discrepancies. Method: To improve understanding of the model, a Nutrition Knowledge Questionnaire (NKQ) and Athlete's Perspective on Nutrition (APN) instrument was developed using the theory of planned behavior as its theoretical framework. Validity and reliability were examined for 193 Sports Science students and 11 elite netballers. Content and face validity of the 48-item NKQ was confirmed by expert sport dietitians. Discriminant validity of the NKQ and factorial validity of the APN was established. Both instruments demonstrated acceptable internal consistency and good test-retest reliability. The final instruments were administered to elite athletes in a pilot study to understand the KAB model. Results: Correlation between nutrition knowledge and dietary behavior was significant (r = .811, p = .01). Nutrition knowledge was a positive predictor of netballers' dietary behavior (beta = .8, t(2) = 3.899, p = .005) but attitude was not (beta = -.097, t(2) = -.471, p = .65). Conclusion: Two psychometrically sound instruments developed in this study can be used to measure nutrition knowledge and attitude in an Asian group of athletes. The pilot study with athletes showed that nutrition knowledge predicted dietary behavior.		[Teo, Cheryl Jia Hui] Singapore Sport Inst, Singapore, Singapore; [Burns, Stephen Francis; Kawabata, Masato] Nanyang Technol Univ, Singapore, Singapore; [Kawabata, Masato] Nanyang Technol Univ, Natl Inst Educ, Phys Educ & Sports Sci Acad Grp, 1 Nanyang Walk, Singapore 637616, Singapore								19							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000742345900001	43	Article; Article		
J	Boeheim, Rene; Lackner, Mario; Wagner, Wilhelm								Raising the Bar: Causal Evidence on Gender Differences in Risk-Taking From a Natural Experiment								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				23	4			460	478	15270025211059533	10.1177/15270025211059533			MAY 2022	2022	We investigate the risk-taking behavior of women and men in high-stakes jumping competitions. Results indicated that female and male athletes differ in the timing and extent of their reactions to an increase in the risk of failure. Male competitors increased risk-taking in the more risky environment immediately after the changes. Female athletes, however, increased risk-taking two years after the rule change. Over time, female athletes revert to pre-reform risk-taking levels, and male athletes' continued to make more risky decisions in the new environment. We attribute our findings to gender differences in competitiveness and risk preferences.		[Boeheim, Rene; Lackner, Mario; Wagner, Wilhelm] Johannes Kepler Univ Linz JKU, Linz, Austria; [Boeheim, Rene] Austrian Inst Econ Res, Vienna, Austria; [Boeheim, Rene] CESifo, Munich, Germany; [Boeheim, Rene] Inst Labor Econ IZA, Bonn, Germany; [Lackner, Mario] Christian Doppler Lab, Aging & Labor Market, Linz, Austria; [Lackner, Mario] Johannes Kepler Univ Linz, Dept Econ, Altenberger Str 69, A-4040 Linz, Austria								4							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000748475800001	31	Article; Article		
J	Filter, Alberto; Olivares, Jesus; Molina, Alejandro; Morente-Sanchez, Jaime; Robles, Jose; Nakamura, Fabio Y.; Santalla, Alfredo; Loturco, Irineu; Requena, Bernardo								Reliability and usefulness of maximum soccer-specific jump test: a valid and cost-effective system to measure on soccer field								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	11			2344	2358		10.1080/14763141.2021.2024244			NOV 1 2024	2024	The aims of this study were (a) to assess intra-session reliability and usefulness of the soccer-specific maximum vertical jump (heading test, HT) and (b) to analyse the validity of the easy-to-use and cost-effective instrument (smartphone camera, MOB) compared with gold-standard instrument (3D motion capture system, MOCAP) to obtain the vertical jump performance during HT. Twelve semi-professional high-level and fifteen amateur soccer male players (23.9 +/- 3.6 years) performed three HT attempts, and kinematic data were recorded with MOB and MOCAP. Intra-class correlation coefficient (ICC) and coefficient of variation (CV) were used as measures of intra-session reliability. T-test with Cohen's effect size (ES), Pearson's product moment and Bland-Altman analysis were used to obtain MOB validity. Regarding intra-session reliability, the CV was 1.13%, and ICC was 0.98, considered acceptable. Respecting validity criteria did not reveal significant differences (p < 0.05; effect size = 0.06, considered trivial), 'almost perfect' correlation (Pearson) (r = 0.98; p < 0.05), and strong agreement were obtained between MOB and MOCAP. This finding showed a test (HT) with a specific character, using cost-effective instrument and applicable to all soccer fields (adjusted to the standardised lines in the soccer field), all of them backed-up by reliability, usefulness and validity criteria.		[Filter, Alberto; Santalla, Alfredo; Requena, Bernardo] Univ Pablo de Olavide, Res Grp Phys Act Hlth & Sport CTS 948, Seville, Spain; [Filter, Alberto; Olivares, Jesus; Santalla, Alfredo; Requena, Bernardo] Football Sci Inst FSI, Sport Res Lab, Granada, Spain; [Olivares, Jesus; Molina, Alejandro; Nakamura, Fabio Y.] Univ Granada, Sport & Hlth Univ Res Inst iMUDS, Dept Phys & Sports Educ, Granada, Spain; [Morente-Sanchez, Jaime] Univ Granada, Fac Sports Sci, Granada, Spain; [Robles, Jose] Univ Huelva, Fac Sport Psychol & Sports Sci, Huelva, Spain; [Nakamura, Fabio Y.] UPE UFPB, Associate Grad Program Phys Educ, Joao Pessoa, Paraiba, Brazil; [Loturco, Irineu] NAR Nucleus High Performance Sport, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Loturco, Irineu] Univ South Wales, Pontypridd, M Glam, Wales; [Loturco, Irineu] Univ Fed Sao Paulo, Dept Human Movement Sci, Santos, SP, Brazil; [Filter, Alberto] Univ Pablo de Olavide, Res Grp Phys Act Hlth & Sport CTS 948, Seville, Spain; [Filter, Alberto] Football Sci Inst FSI, Sport Res Lab, Granada, Spain								1							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000740891200001	23	Article; Article		
J	Pinheiro, Guilherme de Sousa; Quintao, Roberto Chiari; Nascimento, Vitor Bertoli; Claudino, Joao Gustavo; Alves, Adriano Lima; da Costa, Israrel Teoldo; da Costa, Varley Teoldo								Small-sided games do not replicate all external and internal loads of a football match-play during pre-season: A case study								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	1			152	159	17479541211069935	10.1177/17479541211069935			FEB 2023	2023	This study investigated the differences in external and internal load during pre-season training sessions carried out with different SSGs and a friendly match in top-class professional football players. The study was conducted over a full pre-season. Participants were 9 male top-class professional football players (25 +/- 5 years; 74 +/- 8 kg; 177 +/- 8 cm). The following variables were measured: training session duration (min), average heart rate (bpm), total distance (m), distance covered per minute (m/min), the total number of accelerations > 2.5 m/s(2), number of accelerations > 2.5 m/s(2) per minute, average distance of accelerations (m), the average value of acceleration (m/s(2)). One-way ANOVA was performed to analyze the variance of all evaluated variables. No differences were found in the average accelerations (m/s(2)) (0.128) among all the training formats. Moderate differences were found in number of accelerations > 2.5 m/s(2) per minute (eta 2 = 0.396, moderate effect) and average distance of accelerations (eta 2 = 0.545). Strong differences were found in HR (eta 2 = 0.788, large effect), total distance (eta 2 = 0.797, strong effect), distance per minute (eta 2 = 0.775 strong effect), total number of accelerations > 2.5 m/s(2) (eta 2 = 0.699 strong effect). Significant correlations were found just for the number of accelerations > 2.5 m/s(2) and the number of accelerations > 2.5 m/s(2) per minute with the 4v4, 8v8 and the FM (r = 0.828-0.890, r(2) = 69% - 79%; p < 0.01). External and internal loads differ across different SSGs and a FM during the pre-season training sessions.		[Pinheiro, Guilherme de Sousa] Tech Univ Munich, Chair Performance Anal & Sports Informat, Georg Brauchle Ring 60-62, Munich, Bayern, Germany; [Quintao, Roberto Chiari] Clube Atlet Mineiro, Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil; [Nascimento, Vitor Bertoli] Load Control, Res & Dev Dept, Contagem, Brazil; [Claudino, Joao Gustavo] Univ Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Alves, Adriano Lima] Univ Fed Minas Gerais, Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil; [da Costa, Israrel Teoldo] Univ Fed Vicosa, Ctr Res & Studies Soccer, Vicosa, MG, Brazil; [da Costa, Varley Teoldo] Univ Fed Minas Gerais, UFMG Soccer Sci Ctr, Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil; [Pinheiro, Guilherme de Sousa] Tech Univ Munich, Chair Performance Anal & Sports Informat, Georg Brauchle Ring 60-62, Munich, Bayern, Germany								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000748658300001	31	Article; Article		
J	Bergmann, Fynn; Braksiek, Michael; Meier, Christopher								The influence of different game formats on technical actions and playing time parameters - A study with under-7 and under-9 soccer players in a competitive context								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	5			1089	1100	17479541211051654	10.1177/17479541211051654			OCT 2022	2022	Soccer competitions in childhood should ensure a high involvement of all players regardless of their talent. The purpose of the present study was to compare soccer players' technical actions and playing time parameters in 7v7 in comparison to 3v3 (on mini-goals without goalkeepers; under-7) and 5v5 (on 1.65 x 5 m. goals with goalkeepers; under-9) game formats in a competitive context. Using a quasi-experimental within-subject design, tournaments with under-7 (n = 42) and under-9 (n = 43) players were conducted. Technical actions and playing time parameters were rated. Based on the total number of technical actions in 7v7, median splits of the samples were conducted to compare differences between high-involved (dominant) and low-involved (non-dominant) players. No differences in the effective playing time comparing game formats within the age groups were found. In total, 7884 technical actions were rated. In both age groups, the total number of technical actions was higher in the smaller game formats. In under-7, the number of technical actions in all variables was higher in 3v3. In under-9, the number of technical actions was also higher in 5v5 except for unsuccessful passes as well as successful 1v1 situations. More unsuccessful 1v1 situations were found in 7v7. Concerning the total number of technical actions, both dominant and non-dominant players in both age groups performed more technical actions in small-sided games. Due to the higher involvement of the children, better conditions for the acquisition of soccer-specific skills in the smaller game formats compared to 7v7 game formats can be concluded.		[Bergmann, Fynn] Eberhard Karls Univ Tubingen, Inst Sports Sci, Wilhelmstr 124, D-72074 Tubingen, Germany; [Braksiek, Michael] Univ Vechta, Dept Sports Sci, Vechta, Germany; [Meier, Christopher] Bielefeld Univ, Dept Sports Sci, Bielefeld, Germany; [Bergmann, Fynn] Eberhard Karls Univ Tubingen, Inst Sports Sci, Wilhelmstr 124, D-72074 Tubingen, Germany								8							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000740790400001	55	Article; Article		
J	Lyons, Joseph G.; Mian, Humza M.; Via, Garrhett G.; Brueggeman, David A.; Krishnamurthy, Anil B.								Trends and epidemiology of knee extensor mechanism injuries presenting to United States emergency departments from 2001 to 2020								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				51	2			183	192		10.1080/00913847.2021.2024775			MAR 4 2023	2023	Objectives Injuries to the native extensor mechanism (EM) of the knee are potentially disabling and often require surgical treatment. Large-scale, updated epidemiological data on these injuries is lacking. The objective of the current study was to examine recent trends in EM injuries presenting to United States (US) Emergency Departments (EDs) over the last 20 years using a nationally representative sample. Methods This study retrospectively analyzed the National Electronic Injury Surveillance System (NEISS) database to identify cases of EM injuries (defined as either a quadriceps tendon rupture, a patella fracture, or a patellar tendon rupture) presenting to EDs in the US from 2001 to 2020. Results During the study period, an estimated 214,817 EM injuries occurred in an at-risk population of 6,183,899,410 person-years for an overall incidence rate of 3.47 per 100,000 person-years. Patella fractures (PFs) were the most common injury type, representing 77.5% of all EM injuries (overall incidence rate: 2.69), followed by patellar tendon ruptures (PTRs; 13.5%; incidence: 0.48) and quadriceps tendon ruptures (QTRs; 9%; incidence: 0.31). Demographic characteristics and mechanisms of injury differed between injury types. Annual incidence rates increased significantly during the study period for all EM injury types, with PTRs demonstrating the largest relative increase (average annual percent increase: PF, 2.8%; PTR, 7.2%; QTR, 5.3%). Accounting for population growth yielded an increasing incidence of all EM injuries combined from 3.65 in 2001 to 4.9 in 2020. The largest relative increases in incidence rates were observed in older age groups. Conclusion Extensor mechanism injuries of the knee are increasing in the US, which likely reflects an aging and more active population. These types of injuries are associated with substantial functional impairment and recent increases in incidence rates highlight the need for injury prevention and management strategies.		[Lyons, Joseph G.; Mian, Humza M.; Via, Garrhett G.; Brueggeman, David A.; Krishnamurthy, Anil B.] Wright State Univ, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Boonshoft Sch Med, 30 E Apple St,Suite 2200, Dayton, OH 45409 USA; [Lyons, Joseph G.] Wright State Univ, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Boonshoft Sch Med, 30 E Apple St,Suite 2200, Dayton, OH 45409 USA								20							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000739686500001	27	Article; Article		
J	Turner, Mitchell; Ishihara, Toru; Beranek, Philipp; Turner, Kate; Fransen, Job; Born, Philipp; Cruickshank, Travis								Investigating the role of age and maturation on the association between tennis experience and cognitive function in junior beginner to intermediate-level tennis players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	5			1071	1078	17479541211055841	10.1177/17479541211055841			OCT 2022	2022	Sport engagement, including tennis, and physical activity have been shown to have a positive influence on cognition in children. However, age has also been found to have a strong association with cognition in youth athletes. This study examines the threshold hypothesis by investigating the moderating role of age and maturation on the association between tennis experience and cognitive measures in Australian and German junior beginner to intermediate-level tennis players. The demographic information, which includes years of tennis experience, and anthropometrics (e.g. height and weight) was collected for 48 junior tennis players. A comprehensive cognitive testing battery was then completed to assess cognitive performance, with a principle component analysis used to determine an overall cognitive performance score. Multiple regression analyses were then performed to test the relationship between tennis experience and cognitive performance as well as the moderating effects of age and maturation. The results of this study indicate that the age and maturation rather than the exposure to tennis training are related to cognitive performance. Additionally, the positive relations of tennis experience to cognitive performance were stronger in younger participants, specifically those younger than 12 years old. Therefore, tennis may not provide a stimulus large enough for further cognitive improvement once players have developed a high level of cognitive performance. While age and biological maturity will largely dictate cognitive performance in adolescents, tennis experience may play some role in the cognitive performance of children (specifically <12 years of age).		[Turner, Mitchell; Beranek, Philipp; Turner, Kate; Cruickshank, Travis] Edith Cowan Univ, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, 270 Joondalup Dr, Perth, WA 6027, Australia; [Ishihara, Toru] Kobe Univ, Grad Sch Human Dev & Environm, Kobe, Hyogo, Japan; [Fransen, Job] Univ Technol Sydney, Fac Hlth, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Born, Philipp] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Profess Sport Educ & Sport Qualificat, Cologne, Germany; [Cruickshank, Travis] Edith Cowan Univ, Ctr Precis Hlth, Perth, WA, Australia; [Cruickshank, Travis] Perron Inst Neurol & Translat Sci, Perth, WA, Australia; [Turner, Mitchell] Edith Cowan Univ, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, 270 Joondalup Dr, Perth, WA 6027, Australia								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000740787300001	41	Article; Article		
J	Loturco, Irineu; Pereira, Lucas A.; Alvarez-Dacal, Francisco; Martinez-Maseda, Jonathan; Freitas, Tomas T.; Fernandez-Fernandez, Jaime								Predicting change-of-direction performance in elite young badminton players: A multiple regression analysis on acceleration- and deceleration-related qualities								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	3			583	589	17479541211068827	10.1177/17479541211068827			JUN 2022	2022	The aim of this study was to examine the interrelationships between direct (sprint and change-of-direction [COD] velocities) and indirect measures (COD-deficit [CODD], deceleration deficit [DD], and sprint momentum) of speed-related performances in young badminton players. Thirty young male badminton players (age: 16.8 +/- 1.4 years; body-mass: 61.5 +/- 7.9 kg; height: 170 +/- 5.8 cm) performed a 20-m sprint followed by 505 COD tests, on the same day. A Pearson product moment test was applied to determine the relationships among variables. A multiple regression analysis was used to verify whether the combination of CODD and DD increased the capacity to predict COD performance. Large and significant relationships were observed between COD and linear sprint velocity and sprint momentum (r ranging from 0.62 to 0.84; P < 0.05). COD velocity revealed a moderate significant (r = -0.38) and a small non-significant (r = 0.29) relationship with CODD and DD, respectively. The multiple regression model combining CODD and DD explained 44% of the variance in COD performance. In summary, young badminton players who sprint faster are equally faster in COD manoeuvres but present higher levels of CODD and DD. Coaches should be aware that faster badminton players may exhibit greater magnitudes of CODD-DD, thus requiring specific interventions to optimize the transition between high deceleration and (re) acceleration phases.		[Loturco, Irineu; Pereira, Lucas A.; Freitas, Tomas T.] NAR Nucleus High Performance Sport, Av Padre Jose Maria 555, BR-04753060 Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Loturco, Irineu; Pereira, Lucas A.; Freitas, Tomas T.] Univ Fed Sao Paulo, Dept Human Movement Sci, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Loturco, Irineu] Univ South Wales, Pontypridd, M Glam, Wales; [Alvarez-Dacal, Francisco; Fernandez-Fernandez, Jaime] Oviedo Badminton Club, Oviedo, Spain; [Martinez-Maseda, Jonathan] Badminton Technificat Ctr CTD Principado Asturias, Oviedo, Spain; [Freitas, Tomas T.] Catholic Univ Murcia, UCAM Res Ctr High Performance Sport, Murcia, Spain; [Freitas, Tomas T.] Catholic Univ Murcia, Fac Sport Sci, Murcia, Spain; [Fernandez-Fernandez, Jaime] Univ Leon, Fac Phys Act & Sports Sci, Leon, Spain; [Fernandez-Fernandez, Jaime] Univ Leon, Human Movement & Sports Performance Anal, AMRED, Leon, Spain; [Loturco, Irineu] NAR Nucleus High Performance Sport, Av Padre Jose Maria 555, BR-04753060 Sao Paulo, Brazil								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000740789500001	39	Article; Article		
J	Koshino, Yuta; Akimoto, Moeko; Kawahara, Daiki; Watanabe, Kentaro; Ishida, Tomoya; Samukawa, Mina; Kasahara, Satoshi; Tohyama, Harukazu								Inertial Sensor-Based Assessment of Static Balance in Athletes with Chronic Ankle Instability								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				22	1			36	43		10.52082/jssm.2023.36			MAR 2023	2023	The Balance Error Scoring System (BESS), a subjective examiner-based assessment, is often employed to assess postural balance in individuals with chronic ankle instability (CAI); however, inertial sensors may enhance the detection of balance deficits. This study aimed to compare the BESS results between the CAI and healthy groups using conventional BESS scores and inertial sensor data. The BESS test (six conditions: double-leg, single-leg, and tandem stances on firm and foam surfaces, respectively) was performed for the CAI (n = 16) and healthy control (n = 16) groups with inertial sensors mounted on the sacrum and anterior shank. The BESS score was calculated visually by the examiner by counting postural sway as an error based on the recorded video. The root mean square for resultant acceleration (RMSacc) in the anteroposterior, mediolateral, and vertical directions was calculated from each inertial sensor affixed to the sacral and shank surfaces during the BESS test. The mixed-effects analysis of variance and unpaired t-test were used to assess the effects of group and condition on the BESS scores and RMSacc. No significant between-group differences were found in the RMSacc of the sacral and shank surfaces, and the BESS scores (P > 0.05), except for the total BESS score in the foam condition (CAI: 14.4 +/- 3.7, control: 11.7 +/- 3.4; P = 0.039). Significant main effects of the conditions were found with respect to the BESS scores and RMSacc for the sacral and anterior shank (P < 0.05). The BESS test with inertial sensors can detect differences in the BESS conditions for athletes with CAI. However, our method could not detect any differences between the CAI and healthy groups.		[Koshino, Yuta; Akimoto, Moeko; Kawahara, Daiki; Watanabe, Kentaro; Ishida, Tomoya; Samukawa, Mina; Kasahara, Satoshi; Tohyama, Harukazu] Hokkaido Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, West 5,North 12,Kita Ku, Sapporo 0600812, Japan; [Koshino, Yuta] Hokkaido Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, West 5,North 12,Kita Ku, Sapporo 0600812, Japan								7							Sport Sciences	WOS:000914192200001	34	Article; Article		
J	Kobierecki, Michal Marcin; Pierzgalski, Michal								Sports Mega-Events and Economic Growth: A Synthetic Control Approach								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				23	5			567	597	15270025211071029	10.1177/15270025211071029			JUN 2022	2022	This paper contributes to the current literature investigating whether hosting sports mega-events brings tangible economic benefits to the host country. Specifically, we examine whether staging the Olympic Games and the FIFA World Cups leads to observable economic growth. The research has been conducted through a quasi-experimental study in the spirit of the difference-in-differences method. The research subject includes states in which the Olympic Games and FIFA World Cup were held between 2010 and 2016: Canada, South Africa, Great Britain, and Brazil. We found that there is no significant effect of hosting sports mega-events on economic growth.		[Kobierecki, Michal Marcin] Univ Lodz, Dept Polit Theory & Thought, Fac Int & Polit Studies, Lodz, Poland; [Pierzgalski, Michal] Univ Lodz, Ul Skladowa 43, PL-90127 Lodz, Poland; [Kobierecki, Michal Marcin] Univ Lodz, Ul Skladowa 43, PL-90127 Lodz, Poland								24							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000739448900001	92	Article; Article		
J	Mikolajec, Kazimierz; Gabrys, Tomasz; Gryko, Karol; Pronczuk, Magdalena; Krzysztofik, Michal; Trybek, Grzegorz; Maszczyk, Adam								Relationship among the Change of Direction Ability, Sprinting, Jumping Performance, Aerobic Power and Anaerobic Speed Reserve: A Cross-Sectional Study in Elite 3x3 Basketball Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				85	1			105	113		10.2478/hukin-2022-0114			2022	2022	The main purpose of this study was to determine the relationships among sprinting performance, change of direction ability (COD), change of direction deficit (CODD), and aerobic power expressed by maximal oxygen velocity (VmaxIFT), anaerobic speed reserve (ASR) as well as jumping performance (countermovement jump with (CMJa) and without an arm swing (CMJ)) in elite 3x3 basketball players. A total of 15 Polish Olympic 3x3 team players (age: 26.86 & PLUSMN; 8.28 years; body height: 191 & PLUSMN; 5.33 cm; body mass: 90.68 & PLUSMN; 10.03 kg, basketball experience: 15.53 & PLUSMN; 5.8 years) participated in the study. Athletes were tested for the following measures: the linear speed at the first section (5 m), the second section (9 m), the third section (10 m) and total distance (24 m), two sets; the 30-15 Intermittent Fitness Test (first session); COD speed by the Change of Direction and Acceleration Test (CODAT) (the same sections and total distance as in the linear speed test), five repetitions, two sets; and jumping performance by the CMJ with and without an arm swing (second session). CODD was calculated by subtracting the COD speed time from linear speed time at adequate sections and total distance. Maximal sprinting speed (MSS), maximal aerobic velocity (VmaxIFT), and anaerobic speed reserve (ASR) were also considered. Anaerobic Speed Reserve (ASR) was calculated as the difference between MSS and VmaxIFT. A Pearson's correlation test was used to determine the relationship between power-speed-related variables and CODD, final velocity attained at the 30-15 Intermittent Fitness Test (VmaxIFT), ASR, and COD performance. Moderate to strong correlations were registered between COD and linear speed at 5, 10, and 24 m, while moderate to strong negative correlations were detected between COD, CODD, and CMJ, CMJa. Moreover, moderate to strong correlations were observed between COD, CODD, and VmaxIFT, MSS at 9, 10, and 24 m sprints. No relationship was detected between COD, CODD, LS, and ASR in any measured sector. Finally, statistically significant differences were registered in COD and CODD between trial 1 and trial 2.		[Mikolajec, Kazimierz; Krzysztofik, Michal; Maszczyk, Adam] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ, Inst Sport Sci, Katowice, Poland; [Gabrys, Tomasz] Univ West Bohemia, Fac Educ, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Plzen, Czech Republic; [Gryko, Karol] Jozef Pilsudski Univ Phys Educ Warsaw, Dept Sports Games, Warsaw, Poland; [Trybek, Grzegorz] Pomeranian Med Univ, Dept Oral Surg, Szczecin, Poland; [Pronczuk, Magdalena] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, Fac Phys Educ, Gdansk, Poland; [Maszczyk, Adam] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ, Inst Sport Sci, Katowice, Poland								12							Sport Sciences	WOS:000906774700010	41	Article; Article		
J	Prudholme, Dieanna C.; Coburn, Jared W.; Lynn, Scott K.; Lockie, Robert G.								Relationships between Sprint, Acceleration, and Deceleration Metrics with Training Load in Division I Collegiate Women's Soccer Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				85	1			53	62		10.2478/hukin-2022-0109			2022	2022	Player load is a variable derived from GPS technology that quantifies external load demands. Sprints and change-of-direction movements are high-intensity activities that place stress on the body. Research is needed to determine which sprint metrics may relate to and predict player load during practice sessions in collegiate women's soccer players, as coaches could manipulate the most impactful variables. This study analyzed which sprint metrics related to GPS player load in women's soccer players from one Division I team. Data from 19 practice sessions for 18 field players were analyzed. Players wore GPS sensors during all training sessions, and the variables assessed were player load, sprint count, sprint volume, sprint distance, average top speed, maximum top speed, and the number of accelerations and decelerations in different speed zones (+/- 1, +/- 2, +/- 3, +/- 4, +/- 5 m/s2). Pearson's correlations (p < 0.05) analyzed relationships between the sprint variables and player load. Stepwise regression analyses (p < 0.05) determined if any metrics predicted player load. The results indicated significant relationships between player load and sprint count, maximum top speed, sprint distance, sprint volume, number of decelerations at -1, -2, and -3 m/s(2), and accelerations at 1, 2, and 5 m/s(2) (r = 0.512-0.861, p <= 0.025). Sprint distance and decelerations at 1 m/s(2) predicted player load (p = 0.001, r(2) = 0.867). Maximal sprinting and decelerations and accelerations at different speeds were significant contributors to player load in collegiate women's soccer players. Sprint distance, decelerations, and accelerations could be targeted in training drills via dimension and movement manipulation to adjust training intensity for collegiate women's soccer players.		[Prudholme, Dieanna C.; Coburn, Jared W.; Lynn, Scott K.; Lockie, Robert G.] Calif State Univ Fullerton, Ctr Sport Performance, Dept Kinesiol, Fullerton, CA USA; [Lockie, Robert G.] Calif State Univ Fullerton, Dept Kinesiol, 800 N State Coll Blvd, Fullerton, CA 92831 USA; [Lockie, Robert G.] Calif State Univ Fullerton, Dept Kinesiol, 800 N State Coll Blvd, Fullerton, CA 92831 USA								6							Sport Sciences	WOS:000906774700005	31	Article; Article		
J	Willberg, Christina; Kohler, Axel; Zentgraf, Karen								Construct Validity and Applicability of a Team-Sport-Specific Change of Direction Test								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				85	1			115	126		10.2478/hukin-2022-0115			2022	2022	Cuts and changes of direction (COD) are frequent movements during games in team sports. Since those movements are seen as a key performance variable, COD assessments are included in performance diagnostics. However, some tests are criticized as they seem to be confounded by variables such as linear sprinting. Therefore, it is suggested that not only total COD time should be assessed, but also the athletes' COD movements should be examined more closely. For example, split times could be analyzed in tests with more than one COD like the Team-Sport-Specific COD (TSS-COD) test. We aimed to investigate the construct validity of the TSS-COD test, focusing on the homogeneity of the different test parts. We also tested how far sprint performance mapped onto COD performance. Test data were analyzed from 154 elite male and female volleyball and basketball athletes. A Fitlight (c) System was used to assess duration of the TSS-COD test. For the sprint tests, magnetic gates (Humotion GmbH) were used to measure sprint time. Explorative principal component analysis (PCA) was conducted including the test interval duration and the athletes' 5, 10, and 20 m sprint performance, to test the validity of the TSS-COD test. PCA results showed that the start interval formed a factor separate from the other COD sub-intervals. In addition, sprint performance was separated from all COD interval measures. The findings of the PCA were confirmed by split-half validation. Since sprint and COD performance represent independent performance domains within this analysis, we suggest the TSS-COD test to be a valid test to assess COD performance.		[Willberg, Christina; Zentgraf, Karen] Goethe Univ Frankfurt, Inst Sport Sci, Dept Movement Sci & Training Sports, Frankfurt, Germany; [Kohler, Axel] IU Int Hsch, Dept Social Sci, Erfurt, Germany; [Zentgraf, Karen] Goethe Univ Frankfurt, Inst Sport Sci, Dept Movement Sci & Training Sports, Frankfurt, Germany								15							Sport Sciences	WOS:000906774700011	34	Article; Article		
J	Bajelani, Kourosh; Arshi, Ahmed R.; Akhavan, Amir N.								Influence of compression garments on fatigue behaviour during running based on nonlinear dynamical analysis								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	11			2249	2262		10.1080/14763141.2021.2015426			NOV 1 2024	2024	The purpose of this study was to assess quantitatively the effects of compression garments (CGs) on fatigue behaviour during sport activities such as running, which are the subject of a series of qualitative and physiological studies. A quantitative biomechanical analysis of the effects of CGs could assist coaches and athletes to adopt these types of performance enhancement garments. In this research, kinematic changes are measured using 2D phase portraits to study the influence of CGs on fatigue behaviour. Fifteen healthy male intermediate athletes participated in this study and the kinematic data of hip repetitive movements with and without CG were measured during running tasks. These data are used to reconstruct the state space and the local flow variation method is adopted to quantify the trajectory drifts caused by fatigue in the state space. The effects of CGs on the complexity of kinematic changes are also evaluated using permutation entropy. The results indicate that fluctuations in the kinematics are reduced when compression garments are used. It is also shown that adoption of CGs results in a reduction of the rate of fatigue development and decreased complexities in the movement kinematics.		[Bajelani, Kourosh; Arshi, Ahmed R.] Amirkabir Univ Technol, Dept Biomed Engn, Biomech & Sports Engn Grp, Tehran, Iran; [Akhavan, Amir N.] Amirkabir Univ Technol, Management Sci & Technol Dept, Tehran, Iran; [Arshi, Ahmed R.] Amirkabir Univ Technol, Dept Biomed Engn, Biomech & Sports Engn Grp, Tehran, Iran								3							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000738483100001	53	Article; Article		
J	Weir, Gillian								Anterior cruciate ligament injury prevention in sport: biomechanically informed approaches								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	11			1867	1887		10.1080/14763141.2021.2016925			NOV 1 2024	2024	This paper reviews a series of studies contributing to a framework for preventing anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) injuries in sport. As the majority of these injuries are non-contact in nature, theoretically, these injuries are preventable. The studies presented in this paper focus on understanding biomechanical countermeasures of ACL injury and how this knowledge can inform both screening and training intervention research and practice in sport. These countermeasures include: 1) modifying an athlete's technique to reduce externally applied loads to the knee; 2) increasing the muscle support around the knee and hip to counter elevated loads applied to the knee and; 3) improving an athlete's perception during dynamic sports tasks to increase planning time to coordinate desirable movement patterns. By furthering the empirical evidence of modifiable biomechanical countermeasures of ACL injury risk, we can better understand best practices for developing interventions on a mass scale to prevent ACL injuries in the sporting community.		[Weir, Gillian] Univ Massachusetts, Biomech Lab, Amherst, MA 01003 USA; [Weir, Gillian] Univ Western Australia, Sch Human Sci, Perth, Australia; [Weir, Gillian] Univ Massachusetts, Biomech Lab, Amherst, MA 01003 USA; [Weir, Gillian] Univ Western Australia, Sch Human Sci, Perth, Australia								20							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000736380100001	103	Article; Article		
J	Fendri, Thouraya; Boyas, Sebastien; Sahli, Sonia; Harrabi, Mohammed Achraf; Chaari, Fatma; Rebai, Haithem; Beaune, Bruno								Patellar tendinopathy impairs postural control in athletes: A case-control study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				53				14	20		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.10.014			JAN 2022	2022	Objective: To compare postural control performance between athletes with and without patellar tendinopathy (PT). Design: Case-control study. Participants: Fifty-eight athletes, 29 with PT (PT group: PTG) and 29 healthy ones (control group: CG). Main outcome measures: Static and dynamic postural control were assessed with a force platform and the Y-Balance Test (Y-BT), respectively. Quadriceps strength of both limbs was evaluated using an isometric dynamometer. Results: The PTG exhibited significantly (p < 0.05) higher centre of pressure (CoP) values than the CG on the foam surface, and significantly lower (p < 0.001) anterior, posteromedial and posterolateral normalized reach distances, and composite score in dynamic postural control on the injured limb (IL) compared to non-injured limb (NIL) and dominant limb (DL) of the CG. The quadriceps muscle strength was significantly lower on the IL compared to the NIL (p < 0.01) and DL (p < 0.05) of the CG. Conclusion: Athletes suffering from PT exhibited worse static and dynamic postural control compared to healthy peers. As players with PT frequently continue training despite their tendon pain, physiotherapists and clinicians should incorporate balance rehabilitation programs in the treatment of these players, not only to prevent further potential injuries but also to enhance sport performance. (c) 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Fendri, Thouraya; Sahli, Sonia; Harrabi, Mohammed Achraf; Chaari, Fatma; Rebai, Haithem] Sfax Univ, High Inst Sport & Phys Educ, Lab Educ Motric Sports & Hlth, EM2S, LR19JS01, Sfax, Tunisia; [Boyas, Sebastien; Beaune, Bruno] Le Mans Univ, Fac Sci & Technol, Lab Movement Interact Performance, Le Mans, France; [Fendri, Thouraya] Univ Sfax, High Inst Sport & Phys Educ Sfax, Airport Rd,Km 3-5,BP 1068, Sfax 3000, Tunisia								9							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000734731000003	47	Article; Article		
J	Clark, Nicholas C.; Heebner, Nicholas R.; Lephart, Scott M.; Sell, Timothy C.								Specificity of isokinetic assessment in noncontact knee injury prevention screening: A novel assessment procedure with relationships between variables in amateur adult agility-sport athletes								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				53				105	114		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.11.012			JAN 2022	2022	Objectives: To present a new knee isokinetic assessment procedure linked to noncontact knee injury mechanisms and examine correlations between variables relevant to noncontact knee injury prevention screening (peak torque [PT, Nm], time-to-peak torque [TTPT, ms], angle-of-peak torque [APT, degrees], mean PT [MPT, Nm]). Design: Cross-sectional. Setting: Sports medicine laboratory. Participants: Thirty-four agility-sport athletes (male/female n = 18/16, age 24.1 +/- 3.5yr, height 171.8 +/- 9.6 cm, mass 70.6 +/- 12 kg). Main outcome measures: Pearson's/Spearman's correlation (r/r(s)), coefficient of determination (r(2)/r(s)(2)). Results: Most correlations were statistically non-significant or statistically-significant with only weak-to moderate coefficients. For both knee extension and flexion, PT and MPT were significantly and strongly correlated (r = 0.99, r(2) = 0.98, p = 0.001). Graphical analyses revealed two datapoint clusters for knee flexion TTPT and APT. One cluster indicated some participants could generate knee flexor PT rapidly (<150 ms) at low knee flexion angles (<45 degrees) and the other cluster indicated that other participants could not (>200 ms, >50 degrees). Conclusions: In this study, most isokinetic variables represented distinct knee neuromuscular characteristics. For both knee extension and flexion, only PT or MPT need be used to represent isokinetic maximal strength. Knee flexion TTPT and APT may have utility in noncontact knee injury prevention screening with amateur adult agility-sport athletes. (C) 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Clark, Nicholas C.] Univ Essex, Sch Sport Rehabil & Exercise Sci, Wivenhoe Pk, Colchester CO4 3SQ, Essex, England; [Heebner, Nicholas R.; Lephart, Scott M.] Univ Kentucky, Coll Hlth Sci, Lexington, KY 40508 USA; [Sell, Timothy C.] Atrium Hlth Musculoskeletal Inst, Charlotte, NC 28210 USA; [Clark, Nicholas C.] Univ Essex, Sch Sport Rehabil & Exercise Sci, Wivenhoe Pk, Colchester CO4 3SQ, Essex, England								4							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000734731000015	83	Article; Article		
J	Nara, Ginji; Samukawa, Mina; Oba, Kensuke; Koshino, Yuta; Ishida, Tomoya; Kasahara, Satoshi; Tohyama, Harukazu								The deficits of isometric knee flexor strength in lengthened hamstring position after hamstring strain injury								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				53				91	96		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.11.011			JAN 2022	2022	Objective: To investigate the effects of knee flexion angle on peak torque, rate of torque development (RTD) during isometric contraction and hamstring flexibility after hamstring strain injury (HSI). Design: Cross-sectional. Setting: Controlled laboratory research. Participants: Fourteen male athletes with a history of HSI and 14 athletes without HSI (controls). Main outcome measures: Hamstring flexibility was evaluated using active knee extension test. Isometric knee flexion peak torque and RTD were determined at 30 degrees, 60 degrees, and 90 degrees of knee flexion measured by an isokinetic dynamometer. Results: Individuals with a history of HSI had statistically significant, moderate deficits in isometric peak torque at 30 degrees of knee flexion (P = 0.037; effect size = 0.55) in the HSI limb than in the uninjured limb, but not at 60 degrees and 90 degrees of knee flexion. In the control group, no significant differences in isometric peak torque at any angle were found between limbs. No differences in peak RTD and flexibility were found between limbs in both groups. Conclusions: Isometric peak torque at 30 degrees of knee flexion was lower in the injured limb than in the uninjured limb. Isometric strength deficits after HSI tended to be affected by lengthened hamstring angles. (C) 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Nara, Ginji; Koshino, Yuta] NTT Med Ctr Sapporo, Rehabil Ctr, Sapporo, Hokkaido, Japan; [Nara, Ginji; Oba, Kensuke] Hokkaido Univ, Grad Sch Hlth Sci, Sapporo, Hokkaido, Japan; [Samukawa, Mina; Koshino, Yuta; Ishida, Tomoya; Kasahara, Satoshi; Tohyama, Harukazu] Hokkaido Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, Sapporo, Hokkaido, Japan; [Oba, Kensuke] Hitsujigaoka Hosp, Dept Rehabil, Sapporo, Hokkaido, Japan; [Samukawa, Mina] Hokkaido Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, Kita Ku, Nishi 5,Kita 12, Sapporo, Hokkaido 0600812, Japan								10							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000734731000013	29	Article; Article		
J	Neto Bittencourt, Natalia Franco; de Oliveira, Rodrigo Ribeiro; Mascarenhas Vaz, Rodrigo de Paula; Silva, Rodrigo Scattone; Mendonca, Luciana De Michelis								Preventive effect of tailored exercises on patellar tendinopathy in elite youth athletes: A cohort study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				53				60	66		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.11.006			JAN 2022	2022	Objective: To investigate the effects of an intervention with tailored exercises on the incidence of patellar tendinopathy (PT) in elite youth jumping athletes. Design: Prospective crossover cohort. Setting: One sport club facility. Participants: 271 elite youth basketball and volleyball player were followed in the first year of the study (Observation year) and 270 athletes were followed in the second year (intervention year). Main outcome measure: Incidence rates of PT per 1,000h of exposure. Cox survival analysis was used to verify the effects of the intervention (exercises implemented according to the findings of a preseason assessment) on PT incidence. Results: The exercise prevention program significantly reduced the number of cases of PT, with athletes submitted to the intervention showing 51% less risk of developing PT. The overall PT incidence in the Observation year (5.9 per 1,000h of exposure) was significantly higher than that in the intervention year (2.8 per 1,000h of exposure) (P = .037). Twenty-six athletes developed PT in the observation year, whereas 13 athletes developed PT in the intervention year. Conclusions: A tailored preventive program may be able to reduce the incidence of patellar tendinopathy, especially in male youth volleyball athletes. Randomized controlled trials are encouraged to confirm these findings. (C) 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Neto Bittencourt, Natalia Franco] Minas Tenis Club, Sports Phys Dept, Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil; [Neto Bittencourt, Natalia Franco] Ctr Univ Uni BH, Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil; [Neto Bittencourt, Natalia Franco; de Oliveira, Rodrigo Ribeiro; Silva, Rodrigo Scattone; Mendonca, Luciana De Michelis] Tendon Res Grp Brazil, Fortaleza, Ceara, Brazil; [de Oliveira, Rodrigo Ribeiro] Univ Fed Ceara, Master Program Physiotherapy & Functioning, Fortaleza, Ceara, Brazil; [Mascarenhas Vaz, Rodrigo de Paula] Minas Tenis Club Brazil, Sports Sci & Med Dept, Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil; [Silva, Rodrigo Scattone] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Norte, Fac Hlth Sci Trairi, Postgrad Program Rehabil Sci, Santa Cruz, RN, Brazil; [Silva, Rodrigo Scattone] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Norte, Postgrad Program Phys Therapy, Natal, RN, Brazil; [Mendonca, Luciana De Michelis] Univ Fed Vales Jequitinhonha & Mucuri, Phys Therapy Dept, Teofilo Otoni, MG, Brazil; [Mendonca, Luciana De Michelis] Univ Fed Vales Jequitinhonha & Mucuri, Programa Posgrad Reabilitacao & Desempenho Func, Diamantina, Brazil; [Mendonca, Luciana De Michelis] Univ Fed Vales Jequitinhonha & Mucuri, Dept Fisioterapia, Fac Ciencias Biol & Saude, Rodovia MGT 367 Km 583,5000, BR-39100000 Diamantina, MG, Brazil								9							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000734731000009	36	Article; Article		
J	Barry, Lorna; Lyons, Mark; McCreesh, Karen; Powell, Cormac; Comyns, Tom								International survey of training load monitoring practices in competitive swimming: How, what and why not?								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				53				51	59		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.11.005			JAN 2022	2022	Objective: The purpose of this study is to identify the training load (TL) monitoring practices employed in real-world competitive swimming environments. The study explores data collection, analysis and barriers to TL monitoring. Design: Cross-sectional. Setting: Online survey platform. Participants: Thirty-one responders working in competitive swimming programmes. Main outcome measures: Methods of data collection, analysis, level of effectiveness and barriers associated with TL monitoring. Results: 84% of responders acknowledged using TL monitoring, with 81% of responders using a combination of both internal and external TL, in line with current consensus statements. Swim volume (mileage) (96%) and session rate of perceived exertion (sRPE) (92%) were the most frequently used, with athlete lifestyle/wellness monitoring also featuring prominently. Thematic analysis highlighted that "stakeholder engagement", "resource constraints" or "functionality and usability of the systems" were shared barriers to TL monitoring amongst responders. Conclusions: Findings show there is a research-practice gap. Future approaches to TL monitoring in competitive swimming should focus on selecting methods that allow the same TL monitoring system to be used across the whole programme, (pool-based training, dryland training and competition). Barriers associated with athlete adherence and coach/National Governing Body engagement should be addressed before a TL system implementation. (c) 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Barry, Lorna; Lyons, Mark; Comyns, Tom] Univ Limerick, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Limerick, Ireland; [McCreesh, Karen] Univ Limerick, Sch Allied Hlth, Limerick, Ireland; [Barry, Lorna] Univ Limerick, Natl Ctr Limerick, Swim Ireland Performance Dept, Limerick, Ireland; [Barry, Lorna; Lyons, Mark; McCreesh, Karen; Comyns, Tom] Univ Limerick, Hlth Res Inst, Limerick, Ireland; [Powell, Cormac] Sport Ireland, High Performance Unit, Sport Ireland Natl Sports Campus, Dublin, Ireland; [Powell, Cormac] Univ Limerick, Hlth Res Inst, Phys Act Hlth Cluster, Limerick, Ireland; [Barry, Lorna] Univ Limerick, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Limerick, Ireland								14							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000734731000008	43	Article; Article		
J	Rathleff, Michael Skovdal; Holden, Sinead; Krommes, Kasper; Winiarski, Lukasz; Holmich, Per; Salim, Tagrid Jamal; Thorborg, Kristian								The 45-second anterior knee pain provocation test: A quick test of knee pain and sporting function in 10-14-year-old adolescents with patellofemoral pain								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				53				28	33		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.11.002			JAN 2022	2022	Objective: To test 1) if the 45-second Anterior Knee Pain Provocation Test (AKPP-test) could differentiate between adolescents with patellofemoral pain (PFP) and pain-free controls and; 2) whether improve-ments in the AKPP-test over 12 weeks were associated with improvements in self-reported knee function and pain. Design: Prospective cohort. Patients: 151 with PFP and 50 pain-free controls (age 10-14 years). Outcomes: The AKPP-test was performed at baseline, 4-and 12-week follow-up. Pain and function were collected using Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score (KOOS). Results: At baseline, the AKPP-test provoked pain to a median of 5 points (IQR: 3-7) on the 0-10 Numeric Pain Rating Scale in adolescents with PFP, compared to 0 (IQR 0-0) in controls. Higher pain during the AKPP-test was associated with worse KOOS-Sport/Rec (r =-0.33, P < 0.001), worse KOOS -Pain (r =-0.47, P < 0.001), and pain intensity (worst pain last 24 hours) (r =-0.39, P < 0.001) at baseline. Improvements in the AKPP-test over 12 weeks were associated with improvements in KOOS Pain (r = 0.48, P < 0.001) and KOOS Sport/Rec (r = 0.40, P < 0.001). Conclusions: Improvements in the AKPP-test were associated with improvements in self-report knee pain and limitations in sports, suggesting the AKPP-test may be a clinically responsive test of knee pain and sporting function in adolescents with PFP. (c) 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Rathleff, Michael Skovdal; Holden, Sinead] Aalborg Univ, Fac Med, Dept Hlth Sci & Technol, Aalborg, Denmark; [Rathleff, Michael Skovdal; Holden, Sinead; Salim, Tagrid Jamal] Aalborg Univ, Ctr Gen Practice, Aalborg, Denmark; [Rathleff, Michael Skovdal; Winiarski, Lukasz] Aalborg Univ Hosp, Dept Physiotherapy & Occupat Therapy, Aalborg, Denmark; [Krommes, Kasper; Holmich, Per; Thorborg, Kristian] Copenhagen Univ Hosp, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Sports Orthoped Res Ctr Copenhagen SORC C, Amager Hvidovre, Denmark; [Rathleff, Michael Skovdal] Aalborg Univ, Fac Med, Dept Hlth Sci & Technol, Aalborg, Denmark								5							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000734731000005	18	Article; Article		
J	Eagle, Shawn R.; Feder, Abigail; Manderino, Lisa M.; Mucha, Anne; Holland, Cyndi L.; Collins, Michael W.; Kontos, Anthony P.								Concurrent validity of the Vestibular/Ocular Motor Screening (VOMS) tool with the Dizziness Handicap Inventory (DHI) among adolescents with vestibular symptoms/impairment following concussion								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				53				34	39		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.11.003			JAN 2022	2022	Objective: To determine whether the Vestibular/Ocular Motor Screening (VOMS) tool demonstrates concurrent validity with the Dizziness Handicap Inventory (DHI) in a sample of concussed athletes referred for vestibular therapy and whether DHI items were predictive of VOMS outcomes. Design: Cross-sectional cohort study. Setting: Concussion specialty/vestibular therapy clinic. Methods: Adolescents (n = 55; 15.4 +/- 1.6 years) with diagnosed sport-related concussion (SRC) with vestibular symptoms and/or impairment between October 2018-February 2020. Patients completed VOMS and DHI at initial visit. Seven individual VOMS and twenty-five DHI items, VOMS and DHI total score and three DHI sub-scales, were compared with Spearman correlations. Three backwards linear regression (LR) models were built to predict 1. VOMS vestibular symptoms, 2. VOMS ocular symptoms, and 3. near-point of convergence-distance (NPC-distance) using individual DHI items as predictors. Results: Spearman correlations (p) identified DHI items with moderate to strong associations for VOMS items. DHI sub-scales demonstrated moderate-to-strong correlations with VOMS items (p = 0.30-0.59). Total DHI score demonstrated a moderate-to-strong association with HSAC (p = 0.30), VSAC (p = 0.32), and SP (p = 0.61). Results from the LRs predicting VOMS ocular symptoms (R (Alsalaheen et al., 2010) = 0.56; p < 0.001), and VOMS vestibular symptoms (R (Alsalaheen et al., 2010) = 0.23; p = 0.01), and NPC-distance (R (Alsalaheen et al., 2010) = 0.56; p 0.001) included significant DHI predictors. Conclusions: There was moderate-to-strong associations between VOMS and 56% of DHI items (i.e., p 0.30).		[Eagle, Shawn R.; Feder, Abigail; Manderino, Lisa M.; Holland, Cyndi L.; Collins, Michael W.; Kontos, Anthony P.] Univ Pittsburgh, UPMC Sports Med Concuss Program, Dept Orthoped Surg, Pittsburgh, PA 15203 USA; [Mucha, Anne] Univ Pittsburgh, UPMC Sports Med Concuss Program, Ctr Rehabil Serv, Pittsburgh, PA 15203 USA; [Eagle, Shawn R.] Univ Pittsburgh, 3850 S Water St, Pittsburgh, PA 15203 USA								7							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000734731000006	22	Article; Article		
J	Khalaj, Nafiseh; Vicenzino, Bill; Smith, Michelle D.								Hip and knee muscle torque is not impaired in the first three months of a first-time lateral ankle sprain								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				53				1	6		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.10.010			JAN 2022	2022	Objectives: The primary objective was to compare hip and knee isometric muscle strength between individuals with a first-time acute lateral ankle sprain and controls. A secondary objective was to investigate hip and knee isometric muscle strength three months post-injury. Design: Cross-sectional and prospective follow-up components. Setting: Laboratory environment. Participants: Forty-two participants (21 acute lateral ankle sprain and 21 controls) matched for age, sex, physical activity and leg dominance participated. Main outcome measures: Hip and knee isometric muscle torque was assessed using a rigidly fixated hand-held dynamometer. Testing in acute lateral ankle sprain participants was performed within four weeks of injury and three months post-injury. Controls were tested at one timepoint. Results: There were no differences in hip or knee isometric muscle torque between acute lateral ankle sprain and control participants (mean differences <0.08). Hip and knee isometric muscle torque in acute ankle sprain participants did not differ between baseline and three months post-injury testing (mean difference <0.06). Conclusions: Proximal lower limb isometric strength is not impaired within the first three months of sustaining a first-time lateral ankle sprain injury. This implies that hip and knee isometric strength deficits in individuals with CAI may occur at some later stage. (c) 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Khalaj, Nafiseh; Vicenzino, Bill; Smith, Michelle D.] Univ Queensland, Sch Hlth & Rehabil Sci, Div Physiotherapy, Brisbane, Qld 4072, Australia; [Smith, Michelle D.] Univ Queensland, Sch Hlth & Rehabil Sci, Div Physiotherapy, Brisbane, Qld 4072, Australia								1							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000734731000001	36	Article; Article		
J	Kozinc, Ziga; Sarabon, Nejc								Different change of direction tests assess different physical ability parameters: Principal component analysis of nine change of direction tests								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	5			1137	1146	17479541211051676	10.1177/17479541211051676			OCT 2022	2022	Change of direction (CoD) ability is critical for the success of athletes in many sports. The purpose of this study was to perform a principal component analysis using 9 CoD tests in order to reveal possible subcomponents of CoD ability, which could aid practitioners in test selection. Male and female kinesiology students (n = 76) performed all CoD tests and a 30-m sprint test in a quasi-randomized, counterbalanced order. Three components for males and two components for females were extracted from principle component analysis (variance explained = 82.3 and 71.4%, respectively). It seems that the CoD test should be subdivided into at least two components: a) "pure CoD tests" (such as 505 test, T-test and 180 degrees turn) and maneuverability tests (such as AFL run, Illinois test and Figure of Eight test). Considering that different factors seem to underlie CoD and maneuverability, our findings have important practical implications for training design. If hopping/jumping CoD is important for a given athlete, it should also be tested separately.		[Kozinc, Ziga; Sarabon, Nejc] Univ Primorska, Fac Hlth Sci, Polje 42, SI-6310 Izola, Slovenia; [Kozinc, Ziga] Univ Primorska, Andrej Marus Inst, Koper, Slovenia; [Sarabon, Nejc] InnoRenew CoE, Human Hlth Dept, Izola, Slovenia; [Sarabon, Nejc] Univ Primorska, Fac Hlth Sci, Polje 42, SI-6310 Izola, Slovenia								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000738416100001	52	Article; Article		
J	Methenitis, Spyridon; Cherouveim, Evgenia D.; Kroupis, Christos; Tsantes, Argyrios; Ketselidi, Kleopatra; Vlachopoulou, Elpiniki; Stavroulakis, George; Mavrogenis, Andreas; Tsolakis, Charilaos; Koulouvaris, Panagiotis								The importance of aerobic capacity and nutrition in recreational master mountain runners' performance and race-induced changes in body composition and biochemical blood indices								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	5			1167	1177		10.1177/17479541211056398			OCT 2022	2022	This study aimed to explore the importance of aerobic capacity and nutrition on 28-km mountain running performance and race-induced changes in body composition and biochemical blood indices, in recreational master athletes of different performance levels. Twenty male master runners (age: 44.6 +/- 7.7 years) were divided into two groups, slower and faster runners, according to their race performance. Maximum oxygen uptake ((V)over dotO(2max)), velocity at (V)over dotO(2max) (v(V)over dotO(2max)), oxygen consumption ((V)over dotO(2Thr)), and velocity (v(V)over dotO(2Thr)) during the second ventilatory threshold were evaluated. Nutrition was assessed for one week before and during the race. Body composition was evaluated, and blood samples were collected before and 3 h after the race. Slower runners exhibited a greater reduction in lean body mass and greater changes in all muscle damage/inflammation/metabolism blood indices than the faster runners (eta(2) =0.201-0.927; p< 0.05). When all the participants were assessed as one group (n=20), significant correlations were found between (v(V)over dotO(2max), v(V) over dotO(2Thr), race time, energy intake, expenditure, carbohydrate, protein intakes, and post-race changes in body composition and blood markers (r: -0.825-0.824; p< 0.05). The strongest determinants were (v(V)over dotO(2max) and v(V) over dotO(2Thr), while energy intake, expenditure, carbohydrate, and protein intakes seemed to be the weakest determinants of race performance and race-induced changes in body composition and blood indices. The results suggest that race-induced changes in body composition and blood indices are determined mainly by master runners' race performance and endurance capacity and to a lesser extent by nutrition. However, it seems that carbohydrate and protein intakes have equal importance.		[Methenitis, Spyridon; Cherouveim, Evgenia D.; Kroupis, Christos; Tsantes, Argyrios; Mavrogenis, Andreas; Tsolakis, Charilaos; Koulouvaris, Panagiotis] Natl & Kapodistrian Univ Athens, Sch Hlth Sci, Orthoped Dept 1, Sports Excellence, Athens, Greece; [Methenitis, Spyridon; Tsolakis, Charilaos] Natl & Kapodistrian Univ Athens, Sch Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Sports Performance Lab, Athens, Greece; [Methenitis, Spyridon; Vlachopoulou, Elpiniki] Int Hellen Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Nutr Sci & Dietol, Thessaloniki, Greece; [Cherouveim, Evgenia D.] Natl & Kapodistrian Univ Athens, Sch Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Athens, Greece; [Ketselidi, Kleopatra] Harokopio Univ Athens, Sch Hlth Sci & Educ, Dept Nutr & Dietet, Athens, Greece; [Stavroulakis, George] Igias Melathron, Div Cardiol, Athens, Greece; [Methenitis, Spyridon] Natl & Kapodistrian Univ Athens, Sch Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Sports Performance, Ethnikis Antistassis 41, Athens 17237, Greece								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000736436200001	62	Article; Article		
J	Bodendorfer, Blake M.; DeFroda, Steven F.; Newhouse, Alexander C.; Yang, Daniel S.; Shu, Henry T.; Wichman, Daniel; Murphy, Jordan P.; Milner, John D.; Hartnett, Davis A.; Gould, Heath; Chahla, Jorge; Nho, Shane J.								Recurrence of Hamstring Injuries and Risk Factors for Partial and Complete Tears in the National Football League: An Analysis From 2009-2020								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				51	2			139	143		10.1080/00913847.2021.2013106			MAR 4 2023	2023	Purpose To (1) characterize hamstring injury (HSI) recurrence rates across the 2009-2010 to 2019-2020 NFL seasons and (2) to identify HSI recurrence risk factors among positions and determine the weekly return to play (RTP) recurrence risk. We hypothesized that older players, skill position players, and players returning to play faster were most at risk. Methods Public data from the 2009-2010 to 2019-2020 seasons were reviewed to identify HSIs. Player characteristics were collected before and two seasons following injury. A week-by-week analysis of recurrence risk was evaluated with linear and logarithmic trendlines of the best fit. Results A total of 2075 HSI were identified with a mean age of 26.2 years (20.0-43.0), BMI of 29.6 (22.7-43.5), and 3.4 seasons of experience (0-17), with 1826 strains (88.0%), 236 partial tears (11.3%), and 13 complete tears (0.63%). Of the 2075 injuries, 796 (38.4%) were recurrent, with 247 (11.9%) being a same-season reinjury. Logistic regression found that fewer weeks before RTP, in-game injury, and lower BMI were risk factors for same-season recurrence. For any recurrence, logistic regression identified more recent year of injury, lower BMI, and longer playing experience as significant risk factors. Wide receivers were found to be at risk for same-season recurrence. For any-season recurrence, defensive backs, linebackers, running backs, tight ends, and wide receivers were at risk. Week-by-week recurrence analysis determined the greatest risk to be when players returned within 2 weeks (13.4%). Conclusions There is a high rate of HSI recurrence in the NFL. Risk factors for same-season injury include shorter time to RTP, in-game injury, lower BMI, and playing wide receiver. Risk factors for any-season recurrence were more recent year of injury, lower BMI, longer playing experience, and playing defensive back, linebacker, running back, tight end, or wide receiver. The greatest risk factor for HSI recurrence was RTP within 2 weeks.		[Bodendorfer, Blake M.; DeFroda, Steven F.; Newhouse, Alexander C.; Wichman, Daniel; Chahla, Jorge; Nho, Shane J.] Hip Preservat Ctr, Dept Orthoped Surg, Div Sports Med, Sect Young Adult Hip Surg, 1611 West Harrison St, Chicago, IL 60612 USA; [Yang, Daniel S.; Milner, John D.; Hartnett, Davis A.] Brown Univ, Warren Alpert Sch Med, Dept Orthoped Surg, Providence, RI 02912 USA; [Shu, Henry T.] Johns Hopkins Univ, Sch Med, Baltimore, MD USA; [Murphy, Jordan P.; Gould, Heath] MedStar Union Mem Hosp, Dept Orthoped Surg, Baltimore, MD USA; [Newhouse, Alexander C.] Hip Preservat Ctr, Dept Orthoped Surg, Div Sports Med, Sect Young Adult Hip Surg, 1611 West Harrison St, Chicago, IL 60612 USA								13							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000731801300001	22	Article; Article		
J	Haischer, Michael H.; Howenstein, Jacob; Sabick, Michelle; Kipp, Kristof								Torso kinematic patterns associated with throwing shoulder joint loading and ball velocity in Little League pitchers								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	11			2263	2276		10.1080/14763141.2021.2015427			NOV 1 2024	2024	The purpose of this study was to investigate the associations between kinematic patterns of the torso segment and shoulder joint loading as well as pitching performance in youth pitchers. Twenty-four Little League pitchers threw fastballs while motion capture and force plate data were collected and ball speed was measured with a radar gun. Three-dimensional torso segment kinematics (absolute angles and angular velocities) and shoulder net joint moments (NJM) and forces were calculated. The time-series kinematic data were used as inputs to a principal components analysis to extract torso movement patterns. Associations between torso movement patterns and discrete peak shoulder NJM, compressive force, and ball speed were investigated with nonparametric correlations. Torso segment motion patterns related to forward flexion, lateral flexion (away from pitching arm), and axial rotation and rotational velocities were associated with shoulder joint kinetics and ball speed. In addition, excessive axial (transverse plane) torso rotation at ball release correlated positively with shoulder joint loads but not ball speed, which may indicate the prospect for decreasing joint kinetics while maintaining pitching performance through targeted interventions. These results provide a deeper understanding about the interrelationships between torso kinematic patterns, shoulder kinetics, and pitching performance.		[Haischer, Michael H.; Kipp, Kristof] Marquette Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Program Exercise Sci, Milwaukee, WI 53233 USA; [Haischer, Michael H.] Marquette Univ, Athlet & Human Performance Res Ctr, Milwaukee, WI 53233 USA; [Howenstein, Jacob] Blast Mot, San Diego, CA USA; [Sabick, Michelle] Univ Denver, Ritchie Sch Engn & Comp Sci, Denver, CO USA; [Haischer, Michael H.] Marquette Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Program Exercise Sci, Milwaukee, WI 53233 USA; [Haischer, Michael H.] Marquette Univ, Athlet & Human Performance Res Ctr, Milwaukee, WI 53233 USA								2							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000732555300001	31	Article; Article		
J	Hall, Tyler B.; Hyman, Max J.; Patel, Neeraj M.								Epidemiology of pediatric cartilage restoration procedures in the United States: insurance and geography play a role								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				51	2			153	157		10.1080/00913847.2021.2016026			MAR 4 2023	2023	Objectives The purpose of this study is to analyze the epidemiology of children and adolescents undergoing osteochondral autograft transplantation (OAT), osteochondral allograft transplantation (OCA), and autologous chondrocyte implantation (ACI) in the United States. Methods The Pediatric Health Information System, a national database consisting of 49 children's hospitals, was queried for all patients undergoing OAT, OCA, and ACI between 2012 and 2018. Demographic information was collected for each subject. United States Census guidelines were used to categorize hospitals geographically. Univariate analysis was followed by purposeful entry multivariate regression to adjust for confounding factors. Results A total of 809 subjects with a mean age of 15.4 +/- 2.4 years were included in the analysis. Of these, 48.6% underwent OCA, 41.9% underwent OAT, and 9.5% underwent ACI. After adjusting for confounders in a multivariate model, ACI was 3.6 times more likely to be performed in patients with private insurance than those that were publicly insured (95% CI 1.6-8.0, p = 0.002). Furthermore, a patient in the Northeast was 33.1 times more likely to undergo ACI than in the West (95% CI 4.5-246.1, p = 0.001). OAT was performed most frequently in the West and Midwest (52.4% and 51.8% of the time, respectively; p < 0.001). Conclusion In the United States, there is substantial variation in the procedures performed for cartilage restoration in children and adolescents. Though ACI is the least commonly selected operation overall, it is significantly more likely to be performed on patients with private insurance and those in the Northeast.		[Hall, Tyler B.; Hyman, Max J.; Patel, Neeraj M.] Ann & Robert H Lurie Childrens Hosp Chicago, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Chicago, IL USA; [Hall, Tyler B.; Patel, Neeraj M.] Northwestern Univ, Feinberg Sch Med, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Chicago, IL 60611 USA; [Patel, Neeraj M.] Ann & Robert H Lurie Childrens Hosp Chicago, 225 E Chicago Ave,Box 69, Chicago, IL 60611 USA								3							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000731807500001	33	Article; Article		
J	Jorge Rodrigues, Marcelo Couto; Rodrigues Rocha, Augusto Cezar; Barbosa Lira, Claudio Andre; Figueiredo, Lucas Savassi; Vilela Lima, Claudio Olivio; Laporta, Lorenzo; Teixeira Costa, Gustavo De Conti								How small-sided games' court dimensions affect tactical-technical behavior in beginner volleyball athletes?								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	6			1385	1395	17479541211058447	10.1177/17479541211058447			DEC 2022	2022	Purpose: To compare the tactical-technical behavior of volleyball players according to the manipulation of court size in small-sided games. Method: We analyzed the tactical-technical behaviors of 16 male players (12.2 +/- 0.5 years and 1.2 +/- 0.8 years of practice) using the components of the GPAI instrument (Adjustment, efficiency, decision-making and effectiveness) validated for volleyball. To this end, we examined 1614 transition actions (defense, setting and attack) from games played in four court dimensions (3.0 x 3.0m, 4.0 x 4.0m, 4.6 x 4.6m and 5.2 x 5.2m). Altogether 96 Volleyball games were analyzed. Results: The smaller area per player favored technical skills development, specifically defensive and offensive ones. On the other hand, a larger area per player promoted higher scores in decision-making and effectiveness. Conclusion: Our findings indicate that the players' behaviors in small-sided games depend on the game configurations, since modifications in the tactical-technical behavior emanate from the game ecology. Thus, the court size manipulation is a powerful pedagogical tool that deeply relates to learning outcomes. Coaches must consider such constraints in the teaching-learning process, since small-sided games manipulations should be linked with clear learning goals.		[Jorge Rodrigues, Marcelo Couto; Rodrigues Rocha, Augusto Cezar; Barbosa Lira, Claudio Andre; Teixeira Costa, Gustavo De Conti] Univ Fed Goias, Campus Samambaia, BR-74001970 Goiania, Go, Brazil; [Figueiredo, Lucas Savassi] Univ Fed Minas Gerais, Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil; [Vilela Lima, Claudio Olivio] Minas Tenis Clube, Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil; [Laporta, Lorenzo] Univ Reg Integrada Alto Uruguai & Missoes, Santiago, Brazil; [Teixeira Costa, Gustavo De Conti] Univ Fed Goias, Campus Samambaia, BR-74001970 Goiania, Go, Brazil								16							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000736430800001	55	Article; Article		
J	Becker, Kevin A.; McNamara, Scott W. T.								The Absence of Vision Impacts Attentional Focus Effects During a Balancing Task								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	1			118	123		10.1080/02701367.2021.1946462			JAN 2 2023	2023	Purpose: Recent work involving reaching and aiming tasks provides evidence that an internal focus results in less error than an external focus when visual information is removed. The purpose of this study was to extend these findings by determining how an internal and external focus impact motor performance during a balancing task for adults with and without visual occlusion. Method: Thirty-two undergraduate students were randomly assigned to perform the task with or without visual occlusion. Participants balanced on a stability platform during four familiarization trials, three internal focus trials, and three external focus trials. Results: A significant Focus x Vision interaction indicated the group without visual occlusion had significantly lower root mean square error (RMSE) with an external focus, whereas the group with visual occlusion had lower RMSE with an internal focus. Conclusions: These findings indicate that for tasks that rely on online sensory feedback, such as balancing, the optimal attentional focus may be dependent on the dominant type of sensory feedback that is available.		[Becker, Kevin A.; McNamara, Scott W. T.] Texas Womans Univ, Denton, TX 76204 USA; [McNamara, Scott W. T.] Univ Northern Iowa, Cedar Falls, IA USA; [Becker, Kevin A.] Texas Womans Univ, Sch Hlth Promot & Kinesiol, POB 425647, Denton, TX 76204 USA								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000730950100001	35	Article; Article		
J	Souissi, Mohamed Abdelkader; Trabelsi, Omar; Souissi, Hichem; Elghoul, Yousri; Ammar, Achraf; Chamari, Karim; Souissi, Nizar								The video feedback viewing in novice weightlifters: Total control strategy improves snatch technique during learning								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	6			1408	1417	17479541211062596	10.1177/17479541211062596			DEC 2022	2022	This study aimed at comparing the efficiency of two viewing control strategies, total control versus partial control, in correcting the snatch technique in school-aged boys (10-12 years old). Thirty-nine participants, with 2 months of weightlifting training experience, were divided into three groups: total control, partial control, or a control group. The Kinovea version 0.8.15 software was used to measure the kinematic parameters of the snatch technique before (T0) and after six learning sessions (T1). Following the learning sessions, total control group showed greater improvements for all kinematic parameters compared with the partial control and control group (e.g., the horizontal displacement (i) in the first pull (Delta Dx2: 18.17 +/- 26.75%, p < 0.01, d = 0.83), (ii) between the first and the second pulls (Delta DxV: 25.97 +/- 18.02%, p < 0.001, d = 1.52) and from the most forward position to the catch position (Delta DxL: 19.98 +/- 21.60%, p < 0.01, d = 1.36), while the partial group improved only on the Dx2 (Delta Dx2 = 21.53 +/- 20.40%, p < 0.01, d = 0.86). The present results indicate that the intensive use of the interactive features (e.g. pause, play, forward, and backward) and the asked questions during the first learning phase were essential for the improvement of the snatch technique. These findings have potential practical implications for coaching and physical education teaching.		[Souissi, Mohamed Abdelkader; Trabelsi, Omar; Souissi, Hichem; Elghoul, Yousri; Souissi, Nizar] Natl Observ Sport, Res Unit, UR18JS01, Phys Act Sport & Hlth, Tunis, Tunisia; [Souissi, Mohamed Abdelkader] Virtual Univ, Higher Inst Educ & Continuous Training, Tunis 1003, Tunisia; [Trabelsi, Omar; Souissi, Hichem; Elghoul, Yousri] Sfax Univ, High Inst Sport & Phys Educ, Sfax, Tunisia; [Ammar, Achraf] Otto von Guericke Univ, Inst Sport Sci, Magdeburg, Germany; [Ammar, Achraf] Paris Nanterre Univ, Interdisciplinary Lab Neurosci Physiol & Psychol, UFR STAPS, UPL, Nanterre, France; [Chamari, Karim] Aspetar Orthoped & Sports Med Hosp, Doha, Qatar; [Souissi, Nizar] Manouba Univ, High Inst Sport & Phys Educ Ksar Said, Manouba, Tunisia; [Souissi, Mohamed Abdelkader] Natl Observ Sport, Res Unit, UR18JS01, Phys Act Sport & Hlth, Tunis, Tunisia; [Souissi, Mohamed Abdelkader] Virtual Univ, Higher Inst Educ & Continuous Training, Tunis 1003, Tunisia								9							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000735048100001	47	Article; Article		
J	Chainok, Phornpot; de Jesus, Karla; Coelho, Leandro; Ayala, Helon Vicente Hultmann; de Castro Ribeiro, Mateus Gheorghe; Fernandes, Ricardo J.; Vilas-Boas, Joao Paulo								Modeling and predicting the backstroke to breaststroke turns performance in age-group swimmers								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				22	12			1700	1721		10.1080/14763141.2021.2005127			DEC 2 2023	2023	The purpose of the present study was to identify the performance determinant factors predicting 15-m backstroke-to-breaststroke turning performance using and comparing linear and tree-based machine-learning models. The temporal, kinematic, kinetic and hydrodynamic variables were collected from 18 age-group swimmers (12.08 +/- 0.17 yrs) using 23 Qualisys cameras, two tri-axial underwater force plates and inverse dynamics approach. The best models were obtained: (i) with Lasso linear model of the leave-one-out cross-validation in open turn (MSE = 0.011; R-2 = 0.825) and in the somersault turn (MSE = 0.016; R-2 = 0.734); (ii) the Ridge of the leave-one-out cross-validation (MSE = 0.016; R-2 = 0.763) for the bucket turn; and (iii) the AdaBoost tree-based model of the leave-one-out cross-validation for the crossover turn (MSE = 0.016; R-2 = 0.644). Model's selected features revealed that optimum turning performance was very similarly determined for the different techniques, with balanced contributions between turn-in and turn-out variables. As a result, the relevant feature's contribution of each backstroke-to-breaststroke turning technique are specific; developing approaching speed in conjunction with proper gliding posture and pull-out strategy will result in improved turning performance, and may influence differently the development of specific training intervention programmes.		[Chainok, Phornpot] Burapha Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Chon Buri, Thailand; [Chainok, Phornpot; de Jesus, Karla; Fernandes, Ricardo J.; Vilas-Boas, Joao Paulo] Univ Porto, Fac Sport, Ctr Res Educ Innovat & Intervent Sport, Porto, Portugal; [de Jesus, Karla; Fernandes, Ricardo J.; Vilas-Boas, Joao Paulo] Univ Porto, Porto Biomech Lab, Porto, Portugal; [de Jesus, Karla] Univ Fed Amazonas, Human Performance Lab, Fac Phys Educ & Physiotherapy, Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil; [Coelho, Leandro] Pontificia Univ Catolica Parana, Ind & Syst Engn Grad Program, Curitiba, Parana, Brazil; [Coelho, Leandro] Univ Fed Parana, Elect Engn Grad Program, Curitiba, Parana, Brazil; [Ayala, Helon Vicente Hultmann; de Castro Ribeiro, Mateus Gheorghe] Pontifical Catholic Univ Rio de Janeiro, Dept Mech Engn, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil; [Chainok, Phornpot] Burapha Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Chon Buri, Thailand; [Chainok, Phornpot] Univ Porto, Fac Sport, Ctr Res Educ Innovat & Intervent Sport, Porto, Portugal								9							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000730489100001	48	Article; Article		
J	Sigmund, Philipp; Gullich, Arne								Individualisation, readjustment and athlete codetermination of high-performance training in athletics and volleyball								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	4			772	781	17479541211043183	10.1177/17479541211043183			AUG 2022	2022	The study investigated the extent of individualisation, readjustment and athlete codetermination of high-performance training. Individualisation refers to the extent to which the training design is tailored to an athlete's individual wishes, interests, strengths, and weaknesses. Readjustment refers to the adjustment of day-to-day training to an athlete's current physical, health-related and psychological constitution. Athlete codetermination refers to an athlete's involvement in decision-making on the training design. German national-squad members in athletics and volleyball (n = 336) reported these variables in an online questionnaire. Analyses revealed four central findings: (1) Large parts of athletes' training were characterised by high degrees of individualisation, readjustment and athlete codetermination. (2) These characteristics were more pronounced in athletics than in volleyball. (3) They explained large parts of the appropriateness of athletes' training (whether the training was 'just right' for an athlete's performance development). Consistently, greater extents of individualisation, readjustment and athlete codetermination of training control were associated with better multi-year performance development. (4) Participation in performance analytics had no additional, specific effect on training appropriateness. All the results consistently applied to both youth age and adult age. In conclusion, greater extents of individualisation, readjustment and athlete codetermination of the training design apparently facilitate long-term training efficiency.		[Sigmund, Philipp; Gullich, Arne] Univ Kaiserslautern, Dept Sports Sci, Erwin Schrodinger Str 57, D-67663 Kaiserslautern, Germany; [Gullich, Arne] Univ Kaiserslautern, Dept Sports Sci, Erwin Schrodinger Str 57, D-67663 Kaiserslautern, Germany								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000730714100001	45	Article; Article		
J	Mayorga-Vega, Daniel; Fajkowska, Malgorzata; Guijarro-Romero, Santiago; Viciana, Jesus								High School Students' Accelerometer-Measured Physical Activity and Sedentary Behavior by Motivational Profiles Toward Physical Activity								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				93	4			869	879		10.1080/02701367.2021.1935432			OCT 2 2022	2022	Purpose: Based on a Self-Determination Theory with a person-centered approach, the purposes were: (1) to identify motivational profiles toward physical activity (PA) among high school students, and (2) to compare students' accelerometer-measured PA and sedentary behavior (SB) levels between the motivational profiles toward PA. Methods: The present study followed a cross-sectional design. A total of 394 high school students (173 females; final sample = 360 and 198 for the purposes 1 and 2, respectively) aged 12-16 years completed the study. Participants' PA and SB levels were objectively measured by ActiGraph GT3X+ accelerometers (right hip) during seven consecutive days. Later, motivation toward PA was measured by the Behavioral Regulation in Exercise Questionnaire. Results: Based on a two-stage cluster analysis approach, the results identified three clusters: (1) "Self-determined motivational profile toward PA" (65.3%); (2) "Non-self-determined motivational profile toward PA" (23.9%), and (3) "Controlled motivational profile toward PA" (10.8%). The results of the chi-square test showed that a statistically significantly higher percentage of males were represented in cluster 1 (p < .001). The results of the one-way analysis of variance showed that students from cluster 1 had statistically significantly lower levels of SB, and higher levels of light PA, moderate-to-vigorous PA and total PA than those from cluster 2 (p d| = 0.40-0.61). Conclusions: In line with the Self-Determination Theory, the students within the self-determined motivational profile had lower SB and higher PA. This preliminary evidence could inform and guide future policy regarding students' PA promotion.		[Mayorga-Vega, Daniel] Univ Jaen, Jaen, Spain; [Mayorga-Vega, Daniel] Univ Malaga, Malaga, Spain; [Fajkowska, Malgorzata] Polish Acad Sci, Wroclaw, Poland; [Guijarro-Romero, Santiago; Viciana, Jesus] Univ Granada, Granada, Spain; [Mayorga-Vega, Daniel] Univ Jaen, Dept Didact Mus Plast & Corporal Express, Fac Humanities & Educ Sci, Campus Las Lagunillas, Jaen 23071, Spain								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000730029400001	55	Article; Article		
J	Alarie, Christophe; Gagnon, Isabelle; Gagnon, Sara; Gendron, David; Girard, Catherine; Maranda-Levesque, Xavier; Swaine, Bonnie								Physical Activity Interventions in Rehabilitation Programs for Outpatients With Mild Traumatic Brain Injury								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				93	4			851	860		10.1080/02701367.2021.1927946			OCT 2 2022	2022	Introduction: There is limited scientific evidence about the optimal content and parameters of physical activity (PA) interventions for rehabilitation outpatients with persisting symptoms of a mild traumatic brain injury (mTBI). Clinicians have thus had to develop services based on their expertise, feasibility and patient needs. Objectives: This study aimed to document PA interventions delivered in specialized programs of a Canadian province offering outpatient rehabilitation services for individuals with persisting symptoms of mTBI to inform clinical intervention development and future research. Materials and methods: Cross-sectional study using an online survey containing 32 multiple choice and short open-ended questions to be answered by program administrators, with their clinical team's input. Content analysis and descriptive statistics were used. Results: Data from 94% of rehabilitation sites (n = 17) revealed that PA interventions are delivered to children (n = 4), adults (n = 15) and older adults (n = 5) with mTBI symptoms lasting >= 1 month to >= 1 year post injury. PA interventions aim to increase participation (n = 14), improve body functions (n = 9), manage persisting mTBI symptoms (n = 5) and improve self-management skills (n = 5) and knowledge (n = 4). Interventions include individual (n = 15) or group-based (n = 12) format, home-programs (n = 7), and teaching/education (n = 6). Most PA interventions include aerobic and resistance exercises. PA dosage parameters vary greatly. Conclusion: Clinical experts use multimodal interventions for rehabilitation program users that target improvement in body functions, participation and symptoms. The results can inform the development, enhancement and evaluation of PA interventions. Studies evaluating the effectiveness of these interventions for this clientele are warranted.		[Alarie, Christophe; Gagnon, Sara; Gendron, David; Girard, Catherine; Maranda-Levesque, Xavier; Swaine, Bonnie] Univ Montreal, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Alarie, Christophe; Swaine, Bonnie] Ctr Interdisciplinary Res Rehabil Greater Montrea, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Alarie, Christophe; Swaine, Bonnie] Inst Univ Sur Readaptat Deficience Phys Montreal, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Gagnon, Isabelle] McGill Univ, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Gagnon, Isabelle] McGill Univ, Montreal Childrens Hosp, Hlth Ctr, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Alarie, Christophe] Univ Montreal, Fac Med, Sch Rehabil, CP 6128,SucC Ctr Ville, Montreal, PQ H3C 3J7, Canada								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000730065500001	30	Article; Article		
J	Beaumont, Fabien; Legrand, Fabien; Bogard, Fabien; Murer, Sebastien; Vernede, Victor; Polidori, Guillaume								Aerodynamic interaction between in-line runners: new insights on the drafting strategy in running								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	11			2180	2195		10.1080/14763141.2021.2006295			NOV 1 2024	2024	This study aims at modelling the aerodynamic interaction between a world-class runner and several pacers running in line, the objective being to determine the best drafting position in terms of potential speed gain and running time. Computational Fluid Dynamics calculations were performed to determine the aerodynamic drag forces exerted on the runners. Secondly, we estimated the metabolic savings for each of the runner's positions in the pack of pacers. Finally, we estimated a potential equivalent running speed and a corresponding running time gain for each of the runner's positions. Running second in a group of 5 runners would be the most effective drafting strategy, with a reduction of aerodynamic drag reaching 63.3%, corresponding to an improvement of 4.4% of the running economy. Furthermore, decreasing the drag forces acting on the runner would results in greater running speed. For example, a 63.3% reduction in the aerodynamic forces yields a 2.9% faster running speed (20.7 to 21.31 km/h) for an equal metabolic cost. Running in the wake of a leading runner (in a pack of five runners) over a marathon is estimated to provide a significant time saving of 3 min 28 s.		[Beaumont, Fabien; Bogard, Fabien; Murer, Sebastien; Polidori, Guillaume] Univ Reims, MATIM, Reims, France; [Legrand, Fabien] Univ Reims, C2S, Cognit Hlth & Soc, Reims, France; [Bogard, Fabien] Univ Reims, Chalonnais Res Ctr, Reims, France; [Vernede, Victor] Clermont Athletism Auvergne, Stadium Jean PELLEZ, Aubiere, France; [Beaumont, Fabien] Univ Reims, MATIM, Reims, France								19							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000728694600001	31	Article; Article		
J	Gatt, Ian; Allen, Thomas; Wheat, Jonathan								Quantifying wrist angular excursion on impact for Jab and Hook lead arm shots in boxing								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	11			2196	2208		10.1080/14763141.2021.2006296			NOV 1 2024	2024	The hand region is reported as the most common injury site in boxing, with more observed time loss than any other area in this sport. The amount of wrist motion, specifically flexion, has been described as contributing to these injuries, yet no literature is available to quantify wrist kinematics in boxing. This is the first paper describing wrist motion on impact in boxing. Utilising an electromagnetic tracking system, two types of shots were assessed, Jab (straight arm) and Hook (bent arm), during in-vivo testing procedures with 29 elite boxers. For both shots, flexion and ulnar deviation occurred concurrent on impact, with an M and SD of 9.3 +/- 1.9 degrees and 4.7 +/- 1.2 degrees respectively for Jab shots, and 5.5 +/- 1.1 degrees and 3.3 +/- 1.1 degrees respectively for Hook shots, supporting dart throwing motion at the wrist. For both Jab & Hook, wrist motion on impact occurred within >30% and >20% respectively of total available active range of motion, with wrist angles greater in both flexion (t = 9.0, p < 0.001, d = 1.7) and ulnar deviation (t = 8.4, p < 0.001, d = 1.6) for Jab compared to Hook shots. The study provides novel and quantifiable information regarding wrist kinematics during the impact phase of punching and potentially an improved understanding of injury mechanisms in boxing.		[Gatt, Ian] English Inst Sport, Physiotherapy Dept, Manchester, Lancs, England; [Gatt, Ian; Wheat, Jonathan] Sheffield Hallam Univ, Sport & Phys Activ Res Ctr, Sheffield, S Yorkshire, England; [Allen, Thomas] Manchester Metropolitan Univ, Sch Engn, Manchester, Lancs, England; [Gatt, Ian] Sheffield Hallam Univ, Sport & Phys Activ Res Ctr, Sheffield, S Yorkshire, England								7							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000728626900001	51	Article; Article		
J	Kim, Amy Chan Hyung; Du, James; James, Jeffrey								A social epidemiological perspective on local tennis league participation: a multigroup moderated-mediation structural analysis using PLS-SEM								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				23	2			437	461		10.1108/IJSMS-02-2021-0046			APR 5 2022	2022	Purpose The purpose of the current research was to examine the different relationships between individuals' sense of community in sport (SCS) cultivated by participating in local sport leagues, social support and health-related psychological outcomes (i.e. depressive symptoms and happiness) based on the participants' involvement level in the tennis league. Design/methodology/approach Using participants (n = 150) from local tennis leagues in the Southeastern region of the USA, the authors first conducted an instrument validation procedure to assess the psychometric properties of the included measures, and second, the authors analyzed the proposed multigroup moderated-mediation structural model using component-based partial least squares structural equation modeling with SmartPLS 3 (Ringle et al., 2015). Findings The results provide adequate evidence of reliability and validity for both the included reflective and formative constructs. Further, the findings of the proposed moderated-mediation structural model indicated that SCS was positively and significantly associated with social support and happiness while negatively related with depressive symptoms. Social support only mediated the relationship between SCS and happiness. The multigroup analysis results showed significant differences in the relationship between social support and happiness between the least involved group and more involved groups. Originality/value The findings of this study indicated that SCS experienced through participation in local sport leagues can develop both the extent and quality of supportive social relationships with other engaging members. One conclusion from the findings is recognizing a need to develop interventions to enhance SCS, social support and health-related psychological outcomes through local sport league participation.		[Kim, Amy Chan Hyung; Du, James; James, Jeffrey] Florida State Univ, Dept Sport Management, Tallahassee, FL 32306 USA; [Kim, Amy Chan Hyung] Florida State Univ, Dept Sport Management, Tallahassee, FL 32306 USA								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000728196600001	125	Article; Article		
J	Gupta, Dishant; Sharma, Harsh; Gupta, Manali								Doping as a barrier in universal acceptance of esports								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				23	3			645	664		10.1108/IJSMS-05-2021-0105			JUN 28 2022	2022	Purpose Esports has been emerging as a multi-billion dollar industry by attracting players, viewers, advertisers and investors across the globe. Even though there are plenty of professional titles present, only a few have been considered mainstream due to lack of formal governance mechanisms, presence of corruption and cheating mechanisms. "Doping" is one such practice where the players try to gain unfair advantage over their competitors, causing major hindrance in esports development. This qualitative study would draw insights from their perceptions about different doping mechanisms and possible recommendations to curb them. Design/methodology/approach This study has analyzed the semi-structured interviews of selected esports professionals to draw insights from their perceptions about different doping mechanisms and possible recommendations to curb them. This qualitative study would explore the content of their interviews for extracting relevant themes and subthemes. Findings The findings of this study have made significant contributions to deeply lacking literature about the esports industry and barriers it faces in order to be considered as a legitimate sport. The study has extracted contemporary and new emerging themes about the rising trends in the industry and their impact on society and the way we see sports as a whole. Moreover, this study dwells upon the rampant drug abuse persisting in this industry and how it offers itself as a barrier to the legitimization of esports as a viable global industry. Originality/value This study provides an on-ground reality reports on esports and various malpractices rampant in the industry by conducting interviews with various industry professionals and analyzing them through a thematic analysis method using an inductive approach.		[Gupta, Dishant; Sharma, Harsh] Delhi Inst Pharmaceut Sci & Res, New Delhi, India; [Gupta, Manali] Guru Gobind Singh Indraprastha Univ, New Delhi, India; [Gupta, Dishant] Delhi Inst Pharmaceut Sci & Res, New Delhi, India								10							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000728199300001	56	Article; Article		
J	Guard, Andrew; McMillan, Kenneth; MacFarlane, Niall								Influence of game format and team strategy on physical and perceptual intensity in soccer small-sided games								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	5			1109	1118	17479541211056399	10.1177/17479541211056399			OCT 2022	2022	The aim of the study was to compare internal and external load responses of different small-sided games, using balanced (5v5 Possession and small-sided games formats) and unbalanced (6v4) teams. Ten elite youth male soccer players were monitored at the start of the in-season period using global positioning system, heart rate and subjective ratings of intensity. Results showed higher physiological stress (>90% HRmax) in Possession and small-sided games formats when compared to the unbalanced teams (ES = 1.3-2.3). Total and high-intensity distance in small-sided games (28 +/- 25 m) and Possession (67 +/- 35 m) were greater compared to teams of 6 and 4 in the unbalanced scenario. Small-sided games format and team with six players had higher proportion of distance running at sub-maximal velocities (0-5.8 m/s(2)). Small-sided games format and team with four players saw greater mean acceleration effort (mean acceleration intensity in small-sided games 1.91 +/- 0.27 vs. Possession 1.80 +/- 0.20 m/s(2), ES = 0.4 and Team 4 1.56 +/- 0.24 vs. Team 6 1.44 +/- .0.19 m/s(2), ES = 1.3). Small-sided games format and team with 6 players had lower starting velocities prior to acceleration efforts (small-sided games 0.90 +/- 0.08 and Team 6 1.11 +/- 0.11 m/s(2), ES = 1.5 and ES = 1.8), while velocity at the end of each acceleration effort was greater in the Possession format and Team 4 compared to small-sided games and Team 6 (Possession 3.54 +/- 0.23 m/s(2) and Team 4 3.13 +/- 0.22 m/s(2)) compared to the small-sided games format (ES = 0.1) and the team with six players (ES = 2.3). These data demonstrate that using unbalanced teams can provide an additional form of training prescription to facilitate player specific training within a squad environment by providing different internal and external training responses within a combined drill.		[Guard, Andrew; McMillan, Kenneth; MacFarlane, Niall] Univ Glasgow, Sch Life Sci, Glasgow, Lanark, Scotland; [Guard, Andrew] Univ Glasgow, Sch Life Sci, Glasgow, Lanark, Scotland								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000727983300001	33	Article; Article		
J	Zamorano-Garcia, David; Infantes-Paniagua, Alvaro; Cuevas-Campos, Ricardo; Gregorio Fernandez-Bustos, Juan								Impact of Physical Activity-based Interventions on Children and Adolescents' Physical Self-concept: A Meta-analysis								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	1			1	14		10.1080/02701367.2021.1927945			JAN 2 2023	2023	Background: Observational studies associate physical activity (PA) with improved perceptions of children and adolescents' physical self-concept (PSC) and global self-concept (GSC). However, only a few PA-based interventions exist for improving PSC and their results have been inconclusive. Objective: To determine the effect of specific PA-based programmes on the PSC (including its sub-dimensions) and GSC of children and adolescents, and to assess possible moderators. Methods: The databases Web of Science, Scopus, SportDiscus, PubMed, CINAHL, and Cochrane Library were reviewed in February 2020. Only studies with pre-post measurements and control groups were included. The impact of PA-based interventions was explored through different meta-analyses and moderator analyses. Results: Altogether, 20 studies were included in the meta-analysis. Positive and significant effects of PA were determined on self-perceived physical appearance (g = 0.13; 95% CI = 0.03, 0.23), self-perceived sport competence (g = 0.30; 95% CI = 0.09, 0.51), self-perceived physical fitness (g = 0.19; 95% CI = 0.05, 0.32), PSC (g = 0.31; 95% CI = 0.10, 0.52), and GSC (g = 0.17; 95% CI = 0.01, 0.33). The existence of additional interventions in PA-based programmes (e.g., interventions focused on psychological factors or healthy habits) moderated the influence of PA on self-perceived sport competence and physical fitness. Moreover, environment and time were distinguished as moderators for self-perceived physical appearance and sport competence. Further, intervention type, gender, and frequency of intervention moderated the effects of PA on PSC. Conclusions: PA-based interventions, especially in school, seem to be beneficial for the development of positive physical self-perceptions.		[Zamorano-Garcia, David; Infantes-Paniagua, Alvaro; Cuevas-Campos, Ricardo; Gregorio Fernandez-Bustos, Juan] Univ Castilla La Mancha, Albacete, Spain; [Gregorio Fernandez-Bustos, Juan] Univ Castilla La Mancha, Fac Educ Albacete, Pza Univ 3, Albacete 02071, Spain								19							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000726002300001	115	Article; Article		
J	Carmichael, Ryanne D.								Considerations for the Pregnant Endurance Athlete								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				43	6			35	41		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000655			DEC 2021	2021	It is well known that moderate exercise during pregnancy benefits maternal and fetal well-being. The benefits of more vigorous exercise for pregnant women are less clear. The boundaries of safe exercise during pregnancy remain a matter for continued research, which is important to the growing number of female athletes who plan on becoming pregnant. The purpose of this article is to discuss the existing research related to the physiological concerns of the pregnant endurance athlete specifically. Because endurance training includes prolonged and repetitive exercise bouts at varying intensities, topics will include the effect of high-intensity exercise on uterine blood flow and thermoregulation, metabolic, and musculoskeletal changes in pregnancy.		[Carmichael, Ryanne D.] Plymouth State Univ, Hlth & Human Performance Dept, Plymouth, NH 03264 USA; [Carmichael, Ryanne D.] Plymouth State Univ, Hlth & Human Performance Dept, Plymouth, NH 03264 USA								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:000728300600005	62	Article; Article		
J	Olivencia, Ovidio; Kaplan, Kelby; Dreger, Melissa; Veloz, Michael; Kais, Alexander; Marlowe, Katya								Postrehabilitation Considerations for Individuals With Temporomandibular Disorders								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				43	6			14	28		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000685			DEC 2021	2021	Temporomandibular disorders (TMDs) encompass a multitude of signs and symptoms that arise from dysfunction of the muscles of mastication (eating), temporomandibular joint tissues, and associated anatomical structures. TMDs are recognized as a significant cause of orofacial pain, presenting in approximately 5-12% of the general population. TMDs are also common in sports with an estimated lifetime prevalence ranging from 11.7 to 77.8% of the athletic population. Basketball, handball, hockey, water polo, and swimming carry the highest risk. Given the prevalence of TMDs in the athletic and nonathletic population, there is a high likelihood that strength and conditioning (S&C) specialists will encounter individuals with TMDs. Thus, this article aims to provide the S&C specialist with an overview of the pathology and the management of TMDs with an emphasis on postrehabilitation exercise programming and self-management.		[Olivencia, Ovidio; Kaplan, Kelby; Veloz, Michael; Kais, Alexander; Marlowe, Katya] Nova Southeastern Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Ft Lauderdale, FL 33314 USA; [Dreger, Melissa] Seton Hill Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Greensburg, PA USA; [Olivencia, Ovidio] Nova Southeastern Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Ft Lauderdale, FL 33314 USA								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:000728300600003	145	Article; Article		
J	Ulery, Julie Ann; Melton, Bridget; Bland, Helen; Riggs, Amy Jo								Understanding the Scientific Evidence and Regulatory State of the US Dietary Supplement Industry: Considerations for Health and Fitness Practitioners								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				43	6			87	94		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000633			DEC 2021	2021	As dietary supplement use and the supplement industry continue to grow, practitioners in the health and fitness field are often asked by patients and clients for advice on dietary supplement use. Finding scientifically sound and unbiased information to disseminate can prove challenging because dietary supplement utilization and supplement claims are not regulated in the same manner as medications. This narrative review briefly summarizes the dietary supplement industry's state, including the applicable regulation and government oversight, and provides official position statements on dietary supplement utilization. Current supplement utilization patterns are explored, and available resources to investigate dietary supplements and individual manufacturers are provided for practitioners' future use.		[Ulery, Julie Ann] Concordia Univ, Hlth & Human Performance, River Forest, IL 60305 USA; [Melton, Bridget; Riggs, Amy Jo] Georgia Southern Univ, Dept Hlth Sci & Kinesiol, Statesboro, GA USA; [Bland, Helen] Georgia Southern Univ, Dept Hlth Educ, Statesboro, GA USA; [Ulery, Julie Ann] Concordia Univ, Hlth & Human Performance, River Forest, IL 60305 USA								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:000728300600010	18	Article; Article		
J	Young, Jeff								Health Screening and Updated Blood Pressure Guidelines and Their Application for the Certified Personal Trainer								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				43	6			29	34		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000678			DEC 2021	2021	Certified National Strength and Conditioning Association personal trainers are "health/fitness professionals who, using an individualized approach, assess, motivate, educate, and train clients regarding their health and fitness needs. They design safe and effective exercise programs, provide the guidance to help clients achieve their personal health/fitness goals, and respond appropriately in emergency situations. Recognizing their area of expertise, personal trainers refer clients to other health care professionals when appropriate." The design of safe and effective exercise programs includes the need to stay current with published research and changes to relevant exercise guidelines. The purpose of this article is to provide a brief overview of recent changes to the exercise preparticipation health screen, application of the physical activity readiness questionnaire for everyone (PAR-Q+), updated blood pressure guidelines, and recommendations for program design given these changes.		[Young, Jeff] JYKinesiol LLC, New York, NY 10019 USA; [Young, Jeff] JYKinesiol LLC, New York, NY 10019 USA								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:000728300600004	8	Article; Article		
J	Mathankar, Apurva; Kirti, S.								Strength and Conditioning for Cricket Spin Bowlers								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				43	6			42	52		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000644			DEC 2021	2021	Although the popularity of cricket is increasing, there is a lack of strength and conditioning research into position-specific roles. Much of the available research on cricket spin bowling is based on ball swing, flight, deviation, and its principles. Less is known about the demands of the cricket spin bowler (needs analysis) and the specific training methods needed for the optimal performance of the athlete. Spin bowlers are considered to play a crucial role in bowling attacks against the batting team. The batsman is deceived by the spin bowler by adding revolutions to the ball and thus deviates it off the wicket. Therefore, to improve the cricket team's performance, it is prudent to focus on improving the performance of the team's spin bowlers. needs analysis based on a review of literature in the area of biomechanics, time-motion analysis, physiology, and injury epidemiology specific to cricket spin bowlers is provided in this article. Based on these analyses, practical considerations and guidelines for the implementation of strength and conditioning programs for the spin bowlers are provided.		[Mathankar, Apurva] Strength & Conditioning Acad, Educ Dept, Mumbai, Maharashtra, India; [Kirti, S.] Strength & Conditioning Acad, Mumbai, Maharashtra, India; [Mathankar, Apurva] Strength & Conditioning Acad, Educ Dept, Mumbai, Maharashtra, India								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:000728300600006	54	Article; Article		
J	Cuenca-Fernandez, F.; Ruiz-Navarro, J. J.; Gonzalez-Ponce, A.; Lopez-Belmonte, O.; Gay, A.; Arellano, R.								Progression and variation of competitive 100 and 200m performance at the 2021 European Swimming Championships								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	11			2122	2136		10.1080/14763141.2021.1998591			NOV 1 2024	2024	Competitive progressions are necessary to ensure that peak performance occurs when medals are decided. This study aimed to: i) study the coefficient of variation (CV) and performance changes (%Delta) among swimmers who participated in different rounds (i.e., heats, semi-finals and finals); ii) study the CV changes as a function of FINA-points. A total of 1447 performances were analysed in the 100 and 200 m-races during the Budapest 2021 European-Championships. Linear mixed-effects models were applied for total and split-times to obtain intra-athlete CV and %Delta. The FINA-points were studied with two-way ANOVA and Pearson's correlation assessed the relations with CV. The CV in 100 m-races was: 0.48 +/- 0.21% for males and 0.50 +/- 0.20% for females (Delta = -0.66%); in 200 m-races: 0.63 +/- 0.36% and 0.60 +/- 0.34% (Delta = -0.82%). There were differences in FINA-points between strokes and distances (p < 0.02) associated with higher CV for the 200 m-races (r = 0.37; p = 0.003), indicating changes in performance over the rounds. Swimmers' finalists performed easier during the heats by going slower in the first 50 m-lap; however, some of them would have little chance of qualifying during major championships because some events were below FINA-points world-standards.		[Cuenca-Fernandez, F.; Ruiz-Navarro, J. J.; Gonzalez-Ponce, A.; Lopez-Belmonte, O.; Gay, A.; Arellano, R.] Univ Granada, Fac Sport Sci, Aquat Lab, Dept Phys Educ & Sports, Granada, Spain; [Arellano, R.] Univ Granada, Fac Sport Sci, Aquat Lab, Dept Phys Educ & Sports, Granada, Spain								13							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000723939200001	19	Article; Article		
J	Heredia, Caitlyn; Lockie, Robert G.; Lynn, Scott K.; Pamukoff, Derek N.								Comparison of Lower Extremity Kinematics during the Overhead Deep Squat by Functional Movement Screen Score								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				20	4			759	765		10.52082/jssm.2021.759			DEC 2021	2021	It is unclear if the Functional Movement Screen (FMS) scoring criteria identify kinematics that have been associated with lower extremity injury risk. The purpose was to compare lower extrem -ity kinematics of the overhead deep squat (OHDS) during the FMS between individuals who were grouped on FMS scoring. Forty-five adults who were free of injury and without knowledge of the FMS or its scoring criteria (males = 19, females = 26; height = 1.68 +/- 0.08 m; mass = 70.7 +/- 13.0 kg). Three-dimen-sional lower extremity kinematics during an OHDS were meas-ured using a motion capture system. One-way MANOVA was used to compare kinematic outcomes (peak hip flexion angle, hip adduction angle, knee flexion angle, knee abduction angle, knee internal rotation angle, and ankle dorsiflexion angle) between FMS groups. Those who scored a 3 had greater peak hip flexion angle (F-2,F-42 = 8.75; p = 0.001), knee flexion angle (F-2,F-42 = 13.53; p = 0.001), knee internal rotation angle (F-2,F-42 = 12.91; p = 0.001), and dorsiflexion angle (F-2,F-42 = 9.00; p = 0.001) compared to those who scored a 2 or a 1. However, no differences were found in any outcome between those who scored a 2 and those who scored a 1, or in frontal plane hip or knee kinematics. FMS scoring for the OHDS identified differences in squat depth, which was charac-terized by larger peak hip, knee, and dorsi-flexion angles in those who scored a 3 compared with those who scored 2 or 1. However, no differences were found between those who scored a 2 or 1, and caution is recommended when interpreting these scores. Despite a different FMS score, few differences were observed in frontal or transverse plane hip and knee kinematics, and other tasks may be needed to assess frontal plane kinematics.		[Heredia, Caitlyn] No Arizona Univ, Dept Athlet Training, Biomedical Campus, Phoenix, AZ USA; [Lockie, Robert G.; Lynn, Scott K.] Calif State Univ Fullerton, Dept Kinesiol, Fullerton, CA 92634 USA; [Pamukoff, Derek N.] Western Univ, Sch Kinesiol, London, ON, Canada; [Pamukoff, Derek N.] Western Univ, Sch Kinesiol, London, ON, Canada								7							Sport Sciences	WOS:000704890300019	32	Article; Article		
J	Martinez-Navarro, Ignacio; Collado, Eladio; Hernando, Barbara; Hernando, Carlos								Pulmonary and Inspiratory Muscle Function Response to a Mountain Ultramarathon								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				20	4			706	713		10.52082/jssm.2021.706			DEC 2021	2021	The study aimed to provide within-race data on the time course of pulmonary function during a mountain ultramarathon (MUM). Additionally, we wanted to assess possible sex differences re-garding pre-to post-race change in pulmonary and inspiratory muscle function. Lastly, we were interested in evaluating whether changes in respiratory function were associated with relative run-ning speed and due to general or specific fatigue. 47 athletes (29 males and 18 females; 41 +/- 5 years) were submitted to a cardio-pulmonary exercise test (CPET) before a 107-km MUM. Spiro-metric variables: forced vital capacity (FVC), forced expiratory volume in 1 s (FEV1), FEV1/FVC and peak expiratory flow (PEF); maximal inspiratory pressure (MIP); squat jump (SJ) and handgrip strength (HG) were assessed before and after the race. Additionally PEF was measured at three aid stations (33rd, 66th and 84th km) during the race. PEF declined from the 33rd to the 66th km (p = 0.004; d = 0.72) and from the 84th km to the finish line (p = 0.003; d = 0.90), while relative running speed dropped from the first (0-33 km) to the second (33-66 km) race section (p < 0.001; d = 1.81) and from the third (66-84 km) to the last race section (p < 0.001; d = 1.61). Post-race, a moderate reduction was noted in FVC (-13%; p < 0.001; d = 0.52), FEV1 (-19.5%; p < 0.001; d = 0.65), FEV1/FVC (-8.4%; p = 0.030; d = 0.59), PEF (-20.3%; p < 0.001; d = 0.58), MIP (-25.3%; p < 0.001; d = 0.79) and SJ (-31.6%; p < 0.001; d = 1.42). Conversely, HG did not change from pre-to post-race (-1.4%; p = 0.56; d = 0.05). PEF declined during the race in parallel with running speed drop. No sex differences were noted regarding post-race respiratory func-tion, except that FEV1/FVC decay was significantly greater among women. The magnitude of pre-to post-race respiratory function decline was uncorrelated with relative running speed.		[Martinez-Navarro, Ignacio] Univ Valencia, Phys Educ & Sports Dept, Valencia, Spain; [Martinez-Navarro, Ignacio] Vithas 9 Octubre Hosp, Sports Hlth Unit, Valencia, Spain; [Collado, Eladio] Jaume I Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, Castellon de La Plana, Spain; [Hernando, Barbara] Jaume I Univ, Dept Med, Castellon de La Plana, Spain; [Hernando, Carlos] Jaume I Univ, Sport Serv, Castellon de La Plana, Spain; [Hernando, Carlos] Jaume I Univ, Dept Educ & Specif Didact, Castellon de La Plana, Spain; [Martinez-Navarro, Ignacio] Univ Valencia, Fac Phys Activ & Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sports, C Gasco Oliag 3, E-46010 Valencia, Spain								6							Sport Sciences	WOS:000704890300013	42	Article; Article		
J	Jurgenson, Janno; Serg, Martin; Kampus, Priit; Kals, Jaak; Zagura, Maksim; Zilmer, Kersti; Zilmer, Mihkel; Eha, Jaan; Unt, Eve								Effect of Half-Marathon Running on Arterial Stiffness and Blood Biomarkers in High-Level and Recreational Male Athletes								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				20	4			548	556		10.52082/jssm.2021.548			DEC 2021	2021	There is no clear understanding about the effect of intensive physical load on arterial stiffness and related biomarkers. The aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of half-marathon running on arterial stiffness and blood biomarkers during post-competitive recovery period in competitive and recreational male athletes. Eleven high-level long-distance runners (27.1 +/- 4.8 yrs) and seven recreational athletes (34.3 +/- 6.1 yrs), who participated in a half-marathon run were examined. Blood biomarkers and arterial stiffness (SphygmoCor 7.1) were measured at baseline and at 18 to 22 hours after the competition. There were no statistically significant changes between the groups in augmentation index (AIx, AIx@75) or pulse wave velocities at carotid-femoral segment (cfPWV) during recovery period. Between-group comparison did not reveal significant differences in blood pressure and arterial stiffness values at baseline and during recovery period. The change of cfPWV (difference between cfPWV at baseline and cfPWV during post-competitive recovery period) was significantly dependent on race time and sports level of the athlete (high-level or recreational). A significant increase was found in hsCRP, creatine kinase and LDH activity during the post-race period in both groups. No significant changes were found in oxidative stress markers in the groups after the race except for higher diene conjugates level in recreational athletes in comparison with the high-level group during recovery period. Our study results showed that half-marathon competition did not cause any significant changes in arterial stiffness parameters during the recovery period. However, the change in cfPWV was independently associated with half-marathon race time and the athlete's level of training revealing a mild increase of arterial stiffness in high-level athletes and athletes with a faster race time.		[Jurgenson, Janno] Univ Tartu, Inst Sports Sci & Physiotherapy, Fac Med, Tartu, Estonia; [Serg, Martin; Eha, Jaan; Unt, Eve] Univ Tartu, Inst Clin Med, Dept Cardiol, Fac Med, Tartu, Estonia; [Kampus, Priit] Univ Tartu, Inst Clin Med, Dept Cardiol, Fac Med,Cardiol, Tartu, Estonia; [Serg, Martin] North Estonia Med Ctr, Ctr Cardiol, Tallinn, Estonia; [Kampus, Priit] North Estonia Med Ctr, Ctr Cardiol, Dept Invas Cardiol, Tallinn, Estonia; [Kals, Jaak] Univ Tartu, Inst Clin Med, Dept Surg, Fac Med,Vasol, Tartu, Estonia; [Kals, Jaak; Zilmer, Kersti; Zilmer, Mihkel] Univ Tartu, Fac Med, Dept Biochem, Inst Biomed & Translat Med, Tartu, Estonia; [Zagura, Maksim] Univ Tartu, Fac Med, Dept Biochem, Inst Biomed & Translat Med,Radiol & Med Biochem, Tartu, Estonia; [Eha, Jaan] Tartu Univ Hosp, Heart Clin, Tartu, Estonia; [Unt, Eve] Univ Tartu, Dept Sports Med & Rehabil, Inst Clin Med, Fac Med, Tartu, Estonia; [Unt, Eve] Tartu Univ Hosp, Sports Med & Rehabil Clin, Tartu, Estonia; [Zagura, Maksim] Univ Tartu, Inst Clin Med, Dept Radiol, Fac Med, Tartu, Estonia; [Serg, Martin; Kampus, Priit; Kals, Jaak; Zagura, Maksim; Zilmer, Kersti; Zilmer, Mihkel; Eha, Jaan] Univ Tartu, Endothelial Ctr, Tartu, Estonia; [Unt, Eve] Univ Tartu, Inst Clin Med, Dept Cardiol, Fac Med, Tartu, Estonia; [Unt, Eve] Univ Tartu, Dept Sports Med & Rehabil, Inst Clin Med, Fac Med, Tartu, Estonia; [Unt, Eve] Tartu Univ Hosp, Sports Med & Rehabil Clin, Tartu, Estonia								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:000704890300001	37	Article; Article		
J	Yamaguchi, Keiichi; Imai, Tomohiro; Yatsutani, Haruka; Goto, Kazushige								A Combined Hot and Hypoxic Environment during Maximal Cycling Sprints Reduced Muscle Oxygen Saturation: A Pilot Study								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				20	4			684	689		10.52082/jssm.2021.684			DEC 2021	2021	The present study investigated the effects of a combined hot and hypoxic environment on muscle oxygenation during repeated 15s maximal cycling sprints. In a single-blind, cross-over study, nine trained sprinters performed three 15-s maximal cycling sprints interspersed with 7-min passive recovery in normoxic (NOR; 23 degrees C, 50%, FiO(2) 20.9%), normobaric hypoxic (HYP; 23 degrees C, FiO(2) 14.5%), and hot normobaric hypoxic (HH; 35 degrees C, FiO(2) 14.5%) environments. Relative humidity was set to 50% in all trials. The vastus lateralis muscle oxygenation was evaluated during exercise using near-infrared spectroscopy. The oxygen uptake (VO2) and arterial oxygen saturation (SpO(2)) were also monitored. There was no significant difference in peak or mean power output among the three conditions. The reduction in tissue saturation index was significantly greater in the HH (-17.0 +/- 2.7%) than in the HYP (-10.4 +/- 2.8%) condition during the second sprint (p < 0.05). The average VO2 and SpO(2) were significantly lower in the HYP (VO2 = 980 +/- 52 mL/min, SpO(2) = 82.9 +/- 0.8%) and HH (VO2 = 965 +/- 42 mL/min, SpO(2) = 83.2 +/- 1.2%) than in the NOR (VO2 = 1149 +/- 40 mL/min, SpO(2) = 90.6 +/- 1.4%; p < 0.05) condition. In conclusion, muscle oxygen saturation was reduced to a greater extent in the HH than in the HYP condition during the second bout of three 15-s maximal cycling sprints, despite the equivalent hypoxic stress between HH and HYP.		[Yamaguchi, Keiichi; Imai, Tomohiro; Yatsutani, Haruka; Goto, Kazushige] Ritsumeikan Univ, Grad Sch Sport & Hlth Sci, Shiga, Japan; [Goto, Kazushige] 1-1-1 Nojihigashi, Shiga 5258577, Japan								6							Sport Sciences	WOS:000704890300010	31	Article; Article		
J	Domaradzki, Jaroslaw; Popowczak, Marek; Zwierko, Teresa								The Mediating Effect of Change of Direction Speed in the Relationship between the Type of Sport and Reactive Agility in Elite Female Team-Sport Athletes								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				20	4			699	705		10.52082/jssm.2021.699			DEC 2021	2021	The main aim of this study was to examine the mediating effect of the change of direction speed (CODs) on reactive agility (RA) in female players participating in different team sports (TS). In total, there were 31 elite female players from the Polish national basketball (n = 12, aged 24.98 +/- 3.38) and handball (n = 19, aged 27.34 +/- 4.68) teams participated in this study. Two experiments using the 'five-time shuttle run to gates' test with similar move-ment patterns were used to determine the players' RA and CODs. A simple mediation model was utilised to investigate the potential mediation role of CODs and its effect on RA. The results revealed a primary, statistically significant effect of TS on RA (B = 0.796, p = 0.005), which decreased and became statistically insignificant after including the CODs variable into the model of mediation analysis (B = 0.337, p = 0.192). The RA test results were medi-ated by changes in CODs (B = 0.764, p < 0.001). Likewise, TS affected CODs (B = 0.602, p = 0.016). The general conclusion is that the relationship between TS and RA is not inherent. The di-rect effect of TS on RA disappears in the presence of the mediator CODs. Study results confirm the relevance of using the mediation analysis to apply in sport training. Identification of the critical in-gredients of the athletes' agility performance can improve train-ing programs by focusing on effective components.		[Domaradzki, Jaroslaw; Popowczak, Marek] Univ Sch Phys Educ Wroclaw, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Wroclaw, Poland; [Zwierko, Teresa] Univ Szczecin, Inst Phys Culture Sci, Lab Kinesiol, Funct & Struct Human Res Ctr, Szczecin, Poland; [Popowczak, Marek] Univ Sch Phys Educ Wroclaw, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Wroclaw, Poland								22							Sport Sciences	WOS:000704890300012	47	Article; Article		
J	Gronwald, Thomas; Rogers, Bruce; Hottenrott, Laura; Hoos, Olaf; Hottenrott, Kuno								Correlation Properties of Heart Rate Variability during a Marathon Race in Recreational Runners: Potential Biomarker of Complex Regulation during Endurance Exercise								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				20	4			557	563		10.52082/jssm.2021.557			DEC 2021	2021	There is only very limited data examining cardiovascular responses in real-world endurance training/competition. The present study examines the influence of a marathon race on non-linear dynamics of heart rate (HR) variability (HRV). Eleven male recreational runners performed a self-paced marathon road race on an almost flat profile. During the race, heart rate and beat-to beat (RR) intervals were recorded continuously. Besides HRV time-domain measurements, fractal correlation properties using short-term scaling exponent alpha1 of Detrended Fluctuation Analysis (DFA-alpha1) were calculated. The mean finishing time was 3:10:22 +/- 0:17:56 h:min:s with a blood lactate concentration of 4.04 +/- 1.12 mmol/L at the end of the race. Comparing the beginning to the end segment of the marathon race (Begin vs. End) significant increases could be found for km split time (p < .001, d = .934) and for HR (p = .010, d = .804). Significant decreases could be found for meanRR (p = .013, d = .798) and DFA-alpha1 (p = .003, d = 1.132). DFA-alpha1 showed an appropriate dynamic range throughout the race consisting of both uncorrelated and anti-correlated values. Lactate was consistent with sustained high intensity exercise when measured at the end of the event. Despite the runners slowing after halfway, DFA-alpha1 continued to fall to values seen in the highest intensity domain during incremental exercise testing in agreement with lactate assessment. Therefore, the discrepancy between the reduced running pace with that of the decline of DFA-alpha1, demonstrate the benefit of using this dimensionless HRV index as a biomarker of internal load during exercise over the course of a marathon race.		[Gronwald, Thomas] Univ Appl Sci & Med Univ, MSH Med Sch Hamburg, Dept Performance Neurosci Therapy & Hlth, Fac Hlth Sci, Kaiserkai 1, D-20457 Hamburg, Germany; [Rogers, Bruce] Univ Cent Florida, Dept Internal Med, Coll Med, 6850 Lake Nona Blvd, Orlando, FL 32827 USA; [Hottenrott, Laura] Martin Luther Univ Halle Wittenberg, Inst Performance Diagnost & Hlth Promot, Von Seckendorff Pl 2, D-06120 Halle, Saale, Germany; [Hoos, Olaf] Julius Maximilians Univ Wuerzburg, Ctr Sports & Phys Educ, D-97074 Wurzburg, Germany; [Hottenrott, Kuno] Martin Luther Univ Halle Wittenberg, Inst Sports Sci, Von Seckendorff Pl 2, D-06120 Halle, Saale, Germany; [Hottenrott, Kuno] Martin Luther Univ Halle Wittenberg, Inst Sports Sci, Von Seckendorff Pl 2, D-06120 Halle, Saale, Germany								19							Sport Sciences	WOS:000704890300002	29	Article; Article		
J	Baena-Extremera, Antonio; Garcia, Julio F.; Martinez, Andres C.; Martin-Perez, Cristina								Sports in Natural Environment, Sports in Urban Environment: An fMRI Study about Stress and Attention/Awareness								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				20	4			789	798		10.52082/jssm.2021.789			DEC 2021	2021	This study aimed to explore, on one side, the differences between a group of athletes exercising outdoor (OG) and another group exercising indoor (IG) in stress and awareness, and, on the other side, between-group differences in the fMRI activations during the visualization of natural environment images versus urban images. In addition, we aimed to analyze the associations between the resulting task-related brain activations and stress and attention-awareness in each group separately. All the participants (N = 49; OG = 21, 11 females, mean age = 40, SD = 6.49; and IG = 25, 11 females, mean age = 40; 6.19) underwent an fMRI scan and completed the Perceived Stress Scale and the Mindful Attention Awareness Scale. Besides, we collected a sample of hair cortisol. Participants viewed three types of images: water nature, green nature and urban images. Two-sample t-test with corrected p=0.001 values were carried out. Further correlational analyses were performed to estimate the associations between task-related brain activations and our pyscho-emotional measures in each group. Fisher tests were used to explore for potential between group differences in the correlational indexes. In OG, compared to IG, we found a higher activation of the middle occipital cortex and a cluster comprising the supplementary motor area (SMA), the premotor cortex and the pre-SMA while viewing green nature images versus urban images. In OG, more than in IG, the higher activation of the left SMA cluster negatively correlated with perceived stress, while in the IG, more than in OG, the higher pre motor cortex activation was positively related to the total score on MAAS. No significant association was found with the hair cortisol levels. Exercising outdoor would relate to better psycho emotional outcomes, also for athletes. On the other side, the exposition to green nature led to higher activation of brain areas related to motor planning, but also to emotion regulation and emotional response.		[Baena-Extremera, Antonio] Univ Granada, Fac Educ Sci, Granada, Spain; [Garcia, Julio F.] Univ Pontif Comillas, Dept Educ Res & Evaluat Methodol, Madrid, Spain; [Martinez, Andres C.] Univ Granada, Fac Psychol, Granada, Spain; [Martin-Perez, Cristina] Univ Internac la Rioja, Fac Educ, Logrono, Spain; [Garcia, Julio F.] Univ Pontif Comillas, Dept Educ Res & Evaluat Methodol, Madrid, Spain								7							Sport Sciences	WOS:000704890300022	74	Article; Article		
J	Nakamura, Masatoshi; Konrad, Andreas; Ryosuke, Kiyono; Sato, Shigeru; Yahata, Kaoru; Yoshida, Riku; Murakami, Yuta; Sanuki, Futaba; Wilke, Jan								Sex Differences in the Mechanical and Neurophysiological Response to Roller Massage of the Plantar Flexors								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				20	4			665	671		10.52082/jssm.2021.665			DEC 2021	2021	Self-massage using foam rollers, sticks, or balls has become a popular technique to enhance joint range of motion (ROM). Although increases are reported to be larger in females than males, the mechanisms of this observation are unclear. The present study aimed to investigate the effect of roller massage (RM) on ROM, passive tissue stiffness, and neurophysiological markers as a function of sex. Males (n = 15, 22.8 +/- 2.9 yrs.) and females (n = 14, 21.1 +/- 0.7 yrs.) performed three 60-second bouts of calf RM. Outcomes assessed pre-, and post-intervention included passive dorsiflexion (DF) ROM, passive tissue stiffness, passive torque, DF angle at the first stretch sensation, shear elastic modulus, and spinal excitability. DF ROM (+35.9 %), passive torque at DF ROM (+46.4 %), DF angle at first stretch sensation (+32.9 %), and pain pressure threshold (+25.2 %) increased in both groups (p .05) with no differences between males and females (p 0.05). No changes were observed for passive stiffness, shear elastic modulus, and spinal excitability (p > 0.05). Roller massage may increase ROM independently of sex, which, in the present study, could not be ascribed to alterations in passive stiffness or neurophysiological markers. Future studies may further elucidate the role of sensory alterations as possible factors driving RM-induced changes in flexibility.		[Nakamura, Masatoshi; Ryosuke, Kiyono; Sato, Shigeru; Yahata, Kaoru] Niigata Univ Hlth & Welf, Inst Human Movement & Med Sci, Niigata, Japan; [Nakamura, Masatoshi; Yoshida, Riku; Murakami, Yuta; Sanuki, Futaba] Niigata Univ Hlth & Welf, Dept Phys Therapy, Niigata, Japan; [Konrad, Andreas] Karl Franzens Univ Graz, Inst Human Movement Sci Sport & Hlth, Mozartgasse 14, A-8010 Graz, Austria; [Wilke, Jan] Goethe Univ Frankfurt, Inst Occupat Social & Environm Med, Frankfurt, Germany; [Nakamura, Masatoshi] Niigata Univ Hlth & Welf, Dept Phys Therapy, Niigata, Japan; [Nakamura, Masatoshi] Niigata Univ Hlth & Welf, Inst Human Movement & Med Sci, Kita Ku, 1398 Shimami Cho, Niigata 9503198, Japan								11							Sport Sciences	WOS:000704890300009	38	Article; Article		
J	West, Stephen W.; Shill, Isla J.; Clermont, Christian; Pavlovic, Nina; Cairns, Joshua; Seselja, Berlyn; Hancock, Matthew, V; Roberts, Simon P.; Hendricks, Sharief; Emery, Carolyn A.								Same name, same game, but is it different? An investigation of female rugby union match events in Canadian Varsity players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	5			1119	1127	17479541211051961	10.1177/17479541211051961			OCT 2022	2022	Rugby Union is team-based collision sport with increasing global popularity, particularly in the women's game. Despite this, there is currently no evidence demonstrating the frequency of match events outside of the international game. Therefore, the aim of this study is to outline the frequency and distribution of match events in non-international female rugby union to both outline the demands placed on players and to assess the patterns of play for future injury prevention strategies. Forty-eight games from three seasons of varsity rugby were coded and rates of events per match were calculated. Average ball in play percentage was 51%. The tackle was the most frequent contact match event [280.0 (95% CIs: 270.2-289.7)] while passes were the most frequent non-contact match events [323.2 (95% CIs: 311.8-334.5)]. The distribution of events across match quarter was largely consistent and neither the fixture type, nor the season was consistently associated with differences in match event count per game. This study provides the first analysis of match events outside of international game and provides a useful reference for coaches in preparation of players as well as comparable data for the women's game when informing decision making on injury prevention.		[West, Stephen W.; Shill, Isla J.; Pavlovic, Nina; Cairns, Joshua; Seselja, Berlyn; Emery, Carolyn A.] Univ Calgary, Fac Kinesiol, Sport Injury Prevent Res Ctr, 2500 Univ Dr NW, Calgary, AB T2N 1N4, Canada; [West, Stephen W.; Emery, Carolyn A.] Univ Calgary, OBrien Inst Publ Hlth, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Shill, Isla J.; Emery, Carolyn A.] Univ Calgary, Hotchkiss Brain Inst, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Clermont, Christian] Univ Calgary, Fac Kinesiol, Human Performance Lab, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Hancock, Matthew, V; Roberts, Simon P.] Univ Bath, Dept Hlth, Bath, Avon, England; [Hendricks, Sharief] Univ Cape Town, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Human Biol, Div Exercise Sci & Sport Med, Rondebosch, South Africa; [Hendricks, Sharief] Leeds Beckett Univ, Carnegie Appl Rugby Res CARR Ctr, Inst Sport Phys Act & Leisure, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England; [Emery, Carolyn A.] Univ Calgary, Alberta Childrens Hosp Res Inst, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Emery, Carolyn A.] Univ Calgary, Cumming Sch Med, Dept Community Hlth Sci, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Emery, Carolyn A.] Univ Calgary, Cumming Sch Med, Dept Pediat, Calgary, AB, Canada; [West, Stephen W.] Univ Calgary, Fac Kinesiol, Sport Injury Prevent Res Ctr, 2500 Univ Dr NW, Calgary, AB T2N 1N4, Canada								20							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000726560500001	18	Article; Article		
J	Fujita, Rafael Akira; Santos, Daniel Peterossi Rodrigues; Barbosa, Roberto Negri; Palucci Vieira, Luiz Henrique; Santiago, Paulo Roberto Pereira; Zagatto, Alessandro Moura; Gomes, Matheus Machado								Auditory Information Reduces Response Time for Ball Rotation Perception, Increasing Counterattack Performance in Table Tennis								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	1			55	63		10.1080/02701367.2021.1939252			JAN 2 2023	2023	Purpose: Identifying the magnitude of ball rotation is critical to reduce response time, aiming to improve table tennis performance. This study analyzed the influence of auditory and visual information on the perception accuracy and counterattack performance of table tennis players. Methods: Twenty-two high-level table tennis players (22.5 +/- 6.1 years, 71.2 +/- 9.8 kg, 173.5 +/- 7.7 cm) performed two tasks. In the first task, the athletes analyzed audio and video files of the forehand movement on a computer screen with auditory, visual, and combined information and, as soon as possible, chose the ball spin type on a keyboard: fast (spinning ball forward at 140 rotations per second (rotations/s); medium (105 rotations/s); slow (84 rotations/s); or flat hit (70 rotations/s). In the second task, the athletes performed 80 counterattacks (forehand movement) at the table on a target (68x38 cm) with and without auditory information. Results: Friedman's ANOVA revealed a significant effect of condition for perception accuracy (p < .001). Post hoc tests showed higher perception accuracy in the combined and visual conditions. ANOVA also revealed a significant effect of condition for response time to perceive ball rotation (p < .001). The response time was shorter in the combined condition than the other conditions for all spin types. Kendall's analyses showed no significant correlations between perception accuracy and response time in any ball spin type. Regarding the counterattack performance, the Wilcoxon signed-rank test indicated higher performance when auditory information was available (p = .022). Conclusions: As auditory information influences the response time and counterattack performance, it seems crucial for trainers and athletes to explore and include auditory perception training methods.		[Fujita, Rafael Akira; Santos, Daniel Peterossi Rodrigues; Barbosa, Roberto Negri; Santiago, Paulo Roberto Pereira; Gomes, Matheus Machado] Univ Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil; [Palucci Vieira, Luiz Henrique; Zagatto, Alessandro Moura] Sao Paulo State Univ UNESP, Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil; [Gomes, Matheus Machado] Univ Sao Paulo, Sch Phys Educ & Sport Ribeirao Preto, Av Bandeirantes 3900, BR-14040907 Ribeirao Preto, SP, Brazil								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000727201900001	42	Article; Article		
J	Dietze-Hermosa, Martin; Montalvo, Samuel; Gonzalez, Matthew P.; Rodriguez, Sergio; Cubillos, Nicholas R.; Dorgo, Sandor								Association and Predictive Ability of Jump Performance with Sprint Profile of Collegiate Track and Field Athletes								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	11			2137	2156		10.1080/14763141.2021.2000022			NOV 1 2024	2024	This study examined the relationship between broad jump (BJ), countermovement jump (CMJ) and light load countermovement jump (LL-CMJ) performance and sprint performance and Sprint Profile measures in athletes. Additionally, this study aimed to determine the predictive ability of jump measures on Sprint Profile components. Twenty-five athletes performed BJ, CMJ, LL-CMJ, 30-metre acceleration and 30-metre maximal speed fly-by sprints. Results revealed moderate to very large correlations between BJ, CMJ and LL-CMJ performance with acceleration sprint completion times (r = -0.423 to -0.807; p < 0.05), fly-by sprint completion times (r = -0.452 to -0.838; p < 0.05) and maximal sprint speed (r = 0.424 to 0.794; p < 0.05). Additionally, associations were observed with multiple jumping measures and components of the Sprint Profile (r = 0.431 to 0.777; p < 0.05) during acceleration sprints. Furthermore, the BJ distance was the best predictor of Sprint Profile components during acceleration sprints (R-2 = 0.57-0.76; p < 0.01) and maximal speed fly-by sprints (R-2 = 0.775; p < 0.001). The forces and the manner of force application during the BJ to propel the athlete forwards and upwards are similar to those necessary to exhibit superior sprint performance. This may be due to the rapid generation of forces and orientation of force application during both movements.		[Dietze-Hermosa, Martin; Montalvo, Samuel; Rodriguez, Sergio; Cubillos, Nicholas R.] Univ Texas El Paso, Dept Kinesiol, Fitness Res Facil, El Paso, TX 79968 USA; [Dietze-Hermosa, Martin] Brigham Young Univ Idaho, Dept Human Performance & Recreat, Rexburg, ID USA; [Gonzalez, Matthew P.; Dorgo, Sandor] Univ Texas San Antonio, Dept Kinesiol, San Antonio, TX 78249 USA; [Dorgo, Sandor] Univ Texas San Antonio, Dept Kinesiol, San Antonio, TX 78249 USA								17							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000722553000001	54	Article; Article		
J	Berengui, Rosendo; Carralero, Rafael; Castejon, Maria A.; Campos-Salinas, Juan A.; Canton, Enrique								Values, motivational orientation and team cohesion amongst youth soccer players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	5			1049	1058	17479541211055690	10.1177/17479541211055690			OCT 2022	2022	There is a close link between moral education and sports activities. A well-organized sport can be an excellent means of transferring positive values to children and adolescents, which can influence motivation and group processes. This study aimed to analyse (a) the relationships between social, personal and individualistic values, motivational orientation and team cohesion amongst young soccer players and (b) compare differences in these variables between players competing in different age categories. Our participant sample comprised 401 male soccer players of Spanish teams (mean age = 14.64 years) competing in official competitive leagues, of five age categories, Under-10 years to Under-19. All participants responded to three instruments: the Values Scale for Positive Adolescent Development, the Perception of Success Questionnaire and the Group Environment Questionnaire. Correlation and regression, and analysis of differences between categories were performed. The results confirm that personal values are mainly related to task orientation, and individualistic values to ego orientation. The values of responsibility, integrity and honesty were the best predictors of task orientation, and social recognition and hedonism predict ego orientation. Honesty and responsibility were the main predictors of both task and social cohesion. Younger players showed a higher level of social values, task orientation and social cohesion, while older players show higher individualistic values and ego orientation. Implications for research or practice are discussed.		[Berengui, Rosendo; Carralero, Rafael; Castejon, Maria A.; Campos-Salinas, Juan A.] Catholic Univ Murcia UCAM, Fac Social Sci & Commun, Murcia, Spain; [Canton, Enrique] Univ Valencia, Fac Psychol, Valencia, Spain; [Berengui, Rosendo] Univ Catolica Murcia, Grados Educ & Psicol, Campus Jeronimos S-N, Murcia 30107, Spain								17							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000725596400001	56	Article; Article		
J	Teles Bredt, Sarah da Gloria; Camargo, Daniel de Souza; Borges Mortoza, Bernardo Vidigal; Pereira de Andrade, Andre Gustavo; Paolucci, Leopoldo Augusto; Nascimento Rosso, Tomaz Lemos; Praca, Gibson Moreira; Chagas, Mauro Heleno								Additional players and half-court areas enhance group tactical-technical behavior and decrease physical and physiological responses in basketball small-sided games								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	5			1079	1088	17479541211053638	10.1177/17479541211053638			OCT 2022	2022	Small-sided games are used to improve tactical-technical and physical performances in team sports. This study compared the physical, physiological, and tactical-technical responses during 3 versus 3 basketball small-sided games performed in full and half-court: numerical equality (3 vs. 3), numerical superiority (4 vs. 3), and with a non-scorer floater (3 vs. 3 + 1). A total of 45 U-14 and U-15 male athletes participated in the study. They were divided into three-player teams and played one 4-minute bout of each small-sided game type. Heart rate and the time spent in four acceleration zones (0.0-0.5, 0.5-1.0, 1.0-1.5, and 1.5-2.0 g) were recorded using heart rate monitors and triaxial accelerometers. Small-sided games were filmed for the analysis of tactical-technical behavior. Results showed a higher frequency of space creation without the ball, and a mean number of passes per offense in the formats 4 versus 3 and 3 versus 3 + 1, and a lower frequency of space creation with the ball dribbled in 3 versus 3 + 1 compared with 3 versus 3. Physical and physiological responses were higher in the full-court regardless of format and in numerical equality regardless of court area; only the time spent in the highest acceleration zone was higher in half-court small-sided games. We concluded that additional players increase group tactical actions and decrease physical and physiological responses in 3 versus 3 basketball small-sided games.		[Teles Bredt, Sarah da Gloria; Camargo, Daniel de Souza; Borges Mortoza, Bernardo Vidigal; Pereira de Andrade, Andre Gustavo; Paolucci, Leopoldo Augusto; Nascimento Rosso, Tomaz Lemos; Praca, Gibson Moreira; Chagas, Mauro Heleno] Univ Fed Minas Gerais, Sports Dept, Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil; [Teles Bredt, Sarah da Gloria] Univ Fed Minas Gerais, Ave Antonio Carlos 6627, BR-31270901 Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil								12							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000725598300001	34	Article; Article		
J	Fernandes, Rui Antonio; Alacid, Fernando; Gomes, Andre Branquinho; Gomes, Beatriz Branquinho								Validation of a global positioning system with accelerometer for canoe/kayak sprint kinematic analysis								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	11			2168	2179		10.1080/14763141.2021.2005128			NOV 1 2024	2024	This study aimed to validate the use of a Global Positioning System with an accelerometer (GPS-Acc) unit to quantify canoeing kinematic variables. Eight canoe and kayak (200 and 500 m) sprint races were analysed. All the races were recorded sideways by a digital camera that followed the kayak or canoe bow and simultaneously using a GPS-Acc unit recorded the data concerning boat position, velocity, and acceleration. In 200 m races, 50 m splits were established over the entire race distance. In 500 m races, 100 m splits were used, excepting the race start and end, where the splits were divided into two sections of 50 m. The data of the GPS-Acc unit were analysed using a self-developed routine. The agreement between the video and the GPS-Acc analysis was measured regarding all the variables by a Bland-Altman analysis. No differences were found between both methodologies, except for time and velocity at the first 50 m, suggesting thus an agreement between the analysis methods. The GPS-Acc unit is valid for measuring quickly and accurately kinematic variables, mainly boat velocity and stroke rate. However, video analyses may be necessary when a more detailed analysis of the paddling technique is of interest.		[Fernandes, Rui Antonio; Gomes, Beatriz Branquinho] Univ Coimbra, Fac Sport Sci & Phys Educ, Res Unit Sport & Phys Activ, Coimbra, Portugal; [Alacid, Fernando] Univ Almeria, Dept Educ, Hlth Res Ctr, Almeria, Spain; [Gomes, Andre Branquinho] Univ Coimbra, Res Unit Sport & Phys Activ, Coimbra, Portugal; [Fernandes, Rui Antonio] Univ Coimbra, Fac Sport Sci & Phys Educ, Res Unit Sport & Phys Activ, Coimbra, Portugal								13							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000722035400001	38	Article; Article		
J	Castro, Henrique de Oliveira; Praca, Gibson M.; Mesquita, Isabel M. R.; Afonso, Jose; Teixeira Costa, Gustavo De Conti; Moreno, Maria Perla; Morales, Juan C. P.; Greco, Pablo J.								The impact of pendular model on decision-making and tactical-technical performance of U18 male volleyball players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	4			792	803	17479541211048586	10.1177/17479541211048586			AUG 2022	2022	This study aimed to verify the influence of applying the Pendular Model of Tactical-Technical Training (Pendular Model) on decision-making and tactical-technical performance of U18 male volleyball athletes. A total of 44 U18 volleyball athletes participated in the study, divided into two groups: experimental group (n = 23) and control group (n = 21). The Declarative Tactical Knowledge Test in Volleyball was used for the decision-making analysis, while the Instrument for Technical-Tactical Performance Assessment in Volleyball was used for the specific tactical-technical performance components level analysis in the game. Experimental group athletes performed 24 training sessions using the Pendular Model, and control group athletes maintained 24 sessions of regular training. There was a significant difference in decision-making in the extremity attack and setting situations, being better in the experimental group than the control group in the pre and postintervention moments. There were significant differences in the adjustment, decision-making, and effectiveness components in athletes' tactical-technical performance in game situations, being greater in the experimental group compared to the control group in the moments after 12 sessions and postintervention. It is concluded that the Pendular Model proved to be effective for improving decision-making in extremity attack and setting video situations and in the tactical-technical performance in the game in the adjustment, decision-making, and effectiveness components for male U18 volleyball athletes.		[Castro, Henrique de Oliveira] Univ Fed Mato Grosso UFMT, Cuiaba, Brazil; [Castro, Henrique de Oliveira; Praca, Gibson M.; Morales, Juan C. P.; Greco, Pablo J.] Univ Fed Minas Gerais UFMG, Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil; [Mesquita, Isabel M. R.; Afonso, Jose] Univ Porto, Ctr Res Educ Innovat & Intervent Sport, Porto, Portugal; [Teixeira Costa, Gustavo De Conti] Univ Fed Goias UFG, Goiania, Go, Brazil; [Moreno, Maria Perla] Univ Granada UG, Granada, Spain; [Morales, Juan C. P.] Univ Brasilia UnB, Brasilia, DF, Brazil; [Greco, Pablo J.] Univ Fed Minas Gerais EEFFTO, Escola Educ Fis Fisioterapia & Terapia Ocupac Pre, Sports Dept, Antonio Carlos Ave,6627 Campus, BR-31270901 Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000725624600001	42	Article; Article		
J	Scott, Olan K. M.; Burton, Nicholas; Li, Bo								Sponsor and ambush marketing during the 2018 Commonwealth Games on Twitter and Instagram								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				23	3			612	627		10.1108/IJSMS-04-2021-0086			JUN 28 2022	2022	Purpose This research explores ambush marketing on social media during the 2018 Commonwealth Games held in Australia. Two social media platforms - Twitter and Instagram - served as the dataset to uncover how official sponsors of the Canadian and Australian Commonwealth Games teams were ambushed. Design/methodology/approach Employing a content analysis of all official team sponsors and their competitors, the study's findings offer an original and multi-national look into social media ambushing. Findings Results indicated that promoting Games' links was the most common social media post type used by official event sponsors, followed by sharing results of their endorsed athletes and behind-the-scenes information. Research limitations/implications In an effort to provide connection to the event, posts by ambushers focused on promoting athletes endorsed by their brand. All ambushers were more likely to use Twitter to promote their endorsed athletes. Instagram, however, was not fully embraced in their ambush marketing. Originality/value Discussion and implications of the results provide sport marketers with information on how to leverage one's link with a major sporting event.		[Scott, Olan K. M.; Burton, Nicholas] Brock Univ, Sport Management, St Catharines, ON, Canada; [Li, Bo] Miami Univ, Oxford, OH 45056 USA; [Scott, Olan K. M.] Brock Univ, Sport Management, St Catharines, ON, Canada								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000721286900001	61	Article; Article		
J	Perkins, Eleanor; Davison, Glen								Epstein-Barr Virus (EBV) DNA as a Potential Marker of in vivo Immunity in Professional Footballers								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				93	4			861	868		10.1080/02701367.2021.1932707			OCT 2 2022	2022	Introduction: Team sport athletes have increased susceptibility to upper respiratory symptoms (URS) during periods of intensified training and competition. Reactivation of Epstein-Barr Virus (EBV) may be a novel marker for risk of upper respiratory illness (URI) in professional athletes. Aims: To investigate changes in salivary EBV DNA (in addition to the well-established marker, salivary secretory immunoglobulin A), and incidence of URS in professional footballers. Methods: Over a 16-week period (August to November 2016), 15 male players from a professional English football League 1 club provided weekly unstimulated saliva samples (after a rest day) and recorded URS. Saliva samples were analyzed for secretory IgA (ELISA) and EBV DNA (qPCR). Results: Whole squad median (interquartile range) saliva IgA concentration and secretion rate significantly decreased (p < .05) between weeks 8 and 12 (concentration, 107 (76-150) mg/L healthy baseline to 51 (31-80) mg/L at week 12; secretion rate 51 (30-78) mu g/min healthy baseline to 22 (18-43) mu g/min at week 12). Two players reported URS episodes during week 10, both after IgA secretion rate decreased below 40% of the individual's healthy baseline. EBV DNA was detected in the weeks before URS but also at other times and in healthy players (overall frequency 40%, range 11-78%) and frequency was similar between the URS and healthy group. Conclusion: These findings confirm salivary IgA as a useful marker of URS risk but EBV DNA was not. Further research capturing a greater number of URS episodes is required, however, to fully determine the utility of this marker.		[Perkins, Eleanor; Davison, Glen] Univ Kent, Sch Sport & Exercise Sci, Div Nat Sci, Canterbury Campus, Canterbury CT2 7PEM, Kent, England; [Davison, Glen] Univ Kent, Sch Sport & Exercise Sci, Div Nat Sci, Canterbury Campus, Canterbury CT2 7PEM, Kent, England								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000721196700001	31	Article; Article		
J	Burford, Katie; Gillespie, Kathryn; Jowers, Esbelle M.; Bartholomew, John B.								Children's Enjoyment, Perceived Competency, and Vigorous Physical Activity during High-Intensity Interval Training in Physical Education								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				93	4			835	844		10.1080/02701367.2021.1925207			OCT 2 2022	2022	Purpose: Little is known about children's experience with high-intensity interval training (HIIT) during elementary school. Perceptions of enjoyment, perceived competence, and motivation are likely to drive long-term adherence and are, therefore, critical to understanding how HIIT might be implemented in this setting. The purpose of this study was to describe children's vigorous physical activity (VPA), enjoyment, and perceived competency of HIIT activities within a Self-Determination Theory framework (autonomy) in elementary school physical education (PE) classes. Methods: Participants were 402 children from a single, diverse elementary school (49.4% female, 59.6% Non-Hispanic white). Student enjoyment and perceived competency were collected following teacher- (non-autonomous) and student-led (autonomous) conditions. A sub-set of 201 children wore accelerometers to measure percent of time in VPA during HIIT conditions. This mixed factorial design was assessed through a series of repeated measures ANOVAs. Results: While children reported generally positive enjoyment and perceived competence in both conditions (rating over 4.0 on a 5-point scale), children significantly enjoyed (d = 0.44) and felt more competent (d = 0.11) during the autonomous HIIT condition compared to the nonautonomous HIIT condition. In contrast, the percent of time in VPA (d = 0.94) was significantly lower in the autonomous condition. Conclusions: These data illustrate a challenging trade-off with the design of HIIT trials. Increasing autonomy through the inclusion of student choice increased enjoyment and perceived competence of HIIT, which are likely to improve adherence, but lowered VPA, which is likely to reduce cardiometabolic impact.Abbreviations: U.S.: United States; PA: Physical activity; MVPA; Moderate-to-vigorous physical activity; PE: Physical education; CDC: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention; Randomized control trial, RCT; SDT: Self-Determination Theory; HIIT: High-intensity interval training; RCT: Randomized control trial; VPA: Vigorous physical activity; IRB; Institutional Review Board; HFZ: Healthy Fitness Zone; PACES: Physical Activity Enjoyment Scale; M: Mean; SD: Standard deviation		[Burford, Katie] Univ Texas Hlth Sci Ctr Houston, Austin, TX 78701 USA; [Burford, Katie; Gillespie, Kathryn; Jowers, Esbelle M.; Bartholomew, John B.] Univ Texas Austin, Austin, TX 78712 USA; [Burford, Katie] Univ Texas Hlth Sci Ctr Houston, Dept Epidemiol Human Genet & Environm Sci, 1616 Guadalupe St,Suite 6-300, Austin, TX 78701 USA								8							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000721200500001	59	Article; Article		
J	Rowley, Lee J.; Churchill, Sarah M.; Dunn, Marcus; Wheat, Jon								Effect of hurdling step strategy on the kinematics of the hurdle clearance technique								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	10			1504	1525		10.1080/14763141.2021.1970214			OCT 2 2024	2024	Athletes use either an eight-step or a seven-step strategy to reach the first hurdle in the 110 m hurdles event. This study investigates the effect of step strategy on the hurdle clearance technique and spatio-temporal parameters of the four steps prior to hurdle clearance. Two-dimensional video data were collected in the sagittal plane from 12 male sprinters, grouped as seven-step (n = 6) or eight-step (n = 6) strategists. The take-off distance was 0.20 m further from the hurdle and the touchdown was 0.42 m closer to the hurdle for seven-step athletes. Additionally, seven-step athletes reduced the length of the final step before hurdle take-off by 0.14 m compared with the previous step, whereas the eight-step athletes extended their final step by 0.17 m. There was negligible difference between the mean horizontal velocities of the two groups throughout the hurdle clearance (0.02 m/s) or the approach time to the first hurdle from the block clearance (0.01 s). This presents an important first insight into the effect of the step strategy on the first hurdle kinematics. Our findings identify the take-off and touchdown distance parameters of the hurdle clearance technique, and approach step characteristics for a successful seven- or eight-step approach strategy to be employed.		[Rowley, Lee J.; Dunn, Marcus] Sheffield Hallam Univ, Sports Engn Res Grp, Sheffield, S Yorkshire, England; [Churchill, Sarah M.; Wheat, Jon] Sheffield Hallam Univ, Acad Sport & Phys Act, Sheffield, S Yorkshire, England; [Rowley, Lee J.] Sheffield Hallam Univ, Sports Engn Res Grp, Sheffield, S Yorkshire, England								6							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000719235300001	30	Article; Article		
J	Mixon, Franklin G., Jr.; Cebula, Richard J.								Property Rights Freedom and Innovation: Eponymous Skills in Women's Gymnastics								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				23	4			407	430	15270025211055842	10.1177/15270025211055842			MAY 2022	2022	Prior research uses the collapse of Soviet-style communism in 1991 as a de facto experimental framework within which to examine the impact of prospective benefits on the motivation of athletes to succeed in the Olympic Games. Prior to the collapse, successful Soviet Bloc Olympians were provided extraordinary living conditions and lifestyles. These rewards evaporated with the demise of the Soviet Union in 1991, subsequently resulting in relatively poorer Olympic performances of Soviet Bloc athletes. The current study extends earlier work by investigating the impact of appropriability on the supply of innovation by examining the frequency of eponymous skills in women's gymnastics before and during the transition to a new market-based economic order. Our central hypothesis is that following the dissolution the communist governments of the Soviet Bloc and its satellites, the supply of innovation in the form of eponymous skills in women's gymnastics from these countries has fallen. Frequency distributions of eponymous skills in women's gymnastics both prior to and after the dissolution of the aforementioned communist regimes support this hypothesis, as do results from goodness-of-fit tests and stochastic dominance analysis of joint probability distributions.		[Mixon, Franklin G., Jr.] Columbus State Univ, Ctr Econ Educ, Columbus, GA 31907 USA; [Cebula, Richard J.] George Mason Univ, Dept Econ, Fairfax, VA 22030 USA; [Cebula, Richard J.] George Mason Univ, Ctr Study Publ Choice, Fairfax, VA 22030 USA; [Mixon, Franklin G., Jr.] Columbus State Univ, Ctr Econ Educ, Columbus, GA 31907 USA								1							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000721140300001	26	Article; Article		
J	Salmon, Danielle M.; Badenhorst, Marelise; Walters, Simon; Clacy, Amanda; Chua, Jason; Register-Mihalik, Johna; Romanchuk, Janelle; Kerr, Zachary Y.; Keung, Sierra; Sullivan, S. John; Whatman, Chris								The rugby <i>tug-of-war</i>: Exploring concussion-related behavioural intentions and behaviours in youth community rugby union in New Zealand								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	4			804	816	17479541211047661	10.1177/17479541211047661			AUG 2022	2022	Rugby union is a popular team sport, with a high rate of concussions. In adolescents, concussions are further complicated by issues of under-reporting. To encourage more responsible concussion behaviours, it is imperative to understand the factors that influence youth players' behaviours, including the attitudes and behaviours of their coaches and parents. The aim of this study was to explore concussion-related behavioural intentions and behaviours that may influence effective concussion management across a youth rugby system. The study adopted a pragmatic, descriptive qualitative design and included high schools from four youth rugby catchment areas in New Zealand. Nineteen focus groups and 2 individual interviews were conducted with n = 75 players, n = 22 parents, and n = 8 coaches (N = 105) during the 2018 rugby season. A thematic analysis was conducted, guided by a system's approach and the Theory of Planned Behaviour. The themes generated reflected a 'tug-of war' between various behavioural intentions and reported behaviours present in a youth rugby system. Additionally, the behavioural intentions and reported behaviours of coaches, parents, players and their teammates are intricately linked and collectively influence effective concussion management. Being aware of concussions and caring about their management and consequences was a strong theme present across the system. However, these favourable attitudes and behaviours were countered by players, parents and coaches disregarding the system, downplaying the seriousness of concussion, being competitive and driven to win, regardless of the risks. In players the warrior mentality theme, which included bravado, being tough, and playing through the pain further complicated effective concussion management. The findings suggest that there is not always a strong, favourable network in place that would facilitate similarly favourable concussion-related behaviours. To effect change, a system-wide approach, that takes the unique needs of each stakeholder into account and ultimately aims to reconcile performance and brotherhood with positive concussion related behaviours, is needed.		[Salmon, Danielle M.; Chua, Jason; Romanchuk, Janelle; Sullivan, S. John] New Zealand Rugby, POB 2172, Wellington 6140, New Zealand; [Badenhorst, Marelise; Walters, Simon; Keung, Sierra; Whatman, Chris] Auckland Univ Technol, Sch Sport & Recreat, Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand, Auckland, New Zealand; [Clacy, Amanda] Univ Sunshine Coast, Sch Law & Soc, Maroochydore, Australia; [Register-Mihalik, Johna; Kerr, Zachary Y.] Univ N Carolina, Matthew Gfeller Sport Related Traumat Brain Injur, Dept Exercise & Sport Sci, Chapel Hill, NC 27515 USA; [Register-Mihalik, Johna; Kerr, Zachary Y.] Univ N Carolina, Injury Prevent Res Ctr, Chapel Hill, NC 27515 USA; [Register-Mihalik, Johna; Kerr, Zachary Y.] Univ N Carolina, Dept Exercise & Sport Sci, Chapel Hill, NC 27515 USA; [Salmon, Danielle M.] New Zealand Rugby, POB 2172, Wellington 6140, New Zealand								27							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000720994800001	47	Article; Article		
J	Sanders, Ross Howard; Takagi, Hideki; Vilas-Boas, J. Paulo								How Technique Modifications in Elite 100m Swimmers Might Improve Front Crawl Performances to Podium Levels: Swimming 'Chariots of Fire'								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				22	12			1532	1551		10.1080/14763141.2021.1998590			DEC 2 2023	2023	In this paper ways in which performance in 100 m front crawl might be improved are explored. Researchers were identified as 'primary sources' to provide a rationale for how swimmers might improve their performance and to estimate the potential magnitude of improvement. The researchers selected as the primary sources were identified from an initial search of the Scopus and Web of Science data bases using keywords appropriate for the race phases including start, stroking, turn, and finish and their component sub-phases. Recent research was prioritised to ensure that the latest knowledge was considered. Based on an analogy drawn from the 'Chariots of Fire' movie, the hypothetical question was asked: how can we reduce the 100 m time by 0.5s of a swimmer who is already an elite performer? Estimates of potential improvement ranged from 0.013s for the reaction time in the start phase to 1.0s by optimising mid-pool kicking to minimise drag. It is concluded that even at the very elite level, fine-tuning to optimise performance in the different phases of the race could elevate an elite swimmer to podium level performance.		[Sanders, Ross Howard] Univ Sydney, Fac Med & Hlth, Discipline Exercise & Sports Sci, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Takagi, Hideki] Univ Tsukuba, Sch Hlth & Sport Sci, Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan; [Vilas-Boas, J. Paulo] Univ Porto, Fac Sport Cifi2d, Porto, Portugal; [Vilas-Boas, J. Paulo] Univ Porto, Porto Biomech Lab LABIOMEP UP, Porto, Portugal; [Sanders, Ross Howard] Univ Sydney, Fac Med & Hlth, Discipline Exercise & Sports Sci, Sydney, NSW, Australia								6							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000717880100001	51	Article; Article		
J	Holfelder, Benjamin; Schott, Nadja								Object Control Skill Performance across the Lifespan: A Cross Sectional Study								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				93	4			825	834		10.1080/02701367.2021.1924351			OCT 2 2022	2022	Purpose: Studies on object control skills (OCS) have described changes in movement patterns over time, but mostly in children and adolescents, young adults, or older adults. Most of these studies focused on only one skill and usually only on the process- or product-oriented outcomes. Thus, this study aimed to explore OCS performance in children, younger adults, and older adults. Methods: A total of 120 male participants took part in this study, including 78 primary school children (7.96 +/- 1.22 years), 22 young adults (23.5 +/- 2.34 years), and 20 older adults (69.5 +/- 4.43 years). We assessed the process-oriented performance of throwing, kicking, and catching performance using the component approach. Throwing and kicking velocity was recorded with a STALKER SOLO 2.0 radar gun. For catching, the number of caught balls was assessed. Results. Young adults had the highest component levels in all OCS; they also produced significantly higher throwing and kicking velocities than children and older adults. The proportion of participants achieving mastery or advanced skill proficiency varied significantly in children (6.4-32.1%), young adults (63.6-100.0%), and older adults (10.0-95.0%). With few exceptions, the results showed mainly moderately significant correlations between developmental levels and throwing/kicking velocity or number of successfully caught balls for all age groups. Conclusion: Our data indicate that children in particular rarely demonstrate advanced OCS and that there is a decrease in throwing and kicking but not in catching in older adults compared to the younger age groups.		[Holfelder, Benjamin; Schott, Nadja] Univ Stuttgart, Inst Sport & Exercise Sci, Dept Sport Psychol & Human Movement Sci, Allmandring 28, D-70569 Stuttgart, Germany; [Holfelder, Benjamin] Univ Stuttgart, Inst Sport & Exercise Sci, Dept Sport Psychol & Human Movement Sci, Allmandring 28, D-70569 Stuttgart, Germany								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000719255000001	37	Article; Article		
J	Ulupinar, Suleyman; Hazir, Tahir; Isler, Ayse Kin								The Contribution of Energy Systems in Repeated-Sprint Protocols: The Effect of Distance, Rest, and Repetition								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	1			173	179		10.1080/02701367.2021.1950902			JAN 2 2023	2023	Purpose: This study aims to investigate the effects of rest intervals, sprint distance, and number of repetitions on performance variables, physiological responses, and energy system contributions in repeated-sprint protocols when total distance variable was the controlled (300 m). Method: Sixteen male soccer players participated in this study. The four protocols, each totaling a distance of 300 m, consisted of the combination of 15 and 30 m sprints with 30 s rest intervals (15meters30sec and 30meters30sec, respectively) and 1:5 work-rest ratios (15meters12sec and 30meters22sec, respectively). Aerobic, glycolytic, and phosphagen energy systems' contributions were calculated from the oxygen consumption (VO2) during the exercise, net lactate production, and the recovery VO2 kinetics using mono-exponential models. Repeated measures ANOVA with the Bonferroni correction was applied to examine the hypothesized differences. Results: The findings indicated that total sprint duration (F3:45=281.14; p<0.001), percentage of performance decline (F3:45=16.58; p<0.001), delta lactate (F3:45=39.72, p<0.001), rating of perceived exertion (F3:45=28.64; p<0.001), energy demand (F3:45=101.6; p<0.001), VO2 during the rest intervals (F3:45=42.72; p<0.001), and the absolute contribution of glycolytic (F3:45=119.6; p<0.001) and phosphagen energy systems (F3:45=72.9; p<0.001) were lowest in the 15meters30sec compared to other protocols. However, the relative contribution of aerobic system was greatest in the 15meters30sec compared to other protocols (F3:45=28.1, p<0.001). Both absolute (F3:45=119.6; p<0.001) and relative contribution of glycolytic system (F3:45=88.5, p<0.001) were greatest in the 30meters22sec compared to other protocols. Conclusion: This study showed that increasing sprint distance when rest interval is equal and decreasing rest interval when sprint distance is equal can increase the glycolytic system contribution.		[Ulupinar, Suleyman; Hazir, Tahir; Isler, Ayse Kin] Hacettepe Univ, Ankara, Turkey; [Ulupinar, Suleyman] Erzurum Tech Univ, Sport Sci Fac, TR-25050 Erzurum, Turkey; [Ulupinar, Suleyman] Erzurum Tech Univ, Sport Sci Fac, TR-25050 Erzurum, Turkey								17							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000719222200001	43	Article; Article		
J	Broad, Abigail A.; Bornath, Derek P. D.; Grisebach, Daniel; McCarthy, Seth F.; Bryden, Pamela J.; Robertson-Wilson, Jennifer; Hazell, Tom J.								Classroom Activity Breaks Improve On-Task Behavior and Physical Activity Levels Regardless of Time of Day								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	2			331	343		10.1080/02701367.2021.1980189			APR 3 2023	2023	Classroom physical activity breaks (CAB) are beneficial for increasing children's physical activity (PA) levels as well as the amount of time spent being on-task within the classroom. Purpose: To examine the effect of CAB at different times within the school day on on-task behavior and PA levels in primary school (grade 1-3) children. Methods: Thirty-five children (6 +/- 1 y, 22 = male, 13 = female) participated in four conditions in a randomized order: morning (AM), afternoon (PM), morning and afternoon (BOTH), and no CAB (CTRL). CAB followed a traditional Tabata format of 20 s work and 10 s rest repeated 8 times for a total of 4 min. PA levels were monitored (accelerometry). On-task behavior and three types of off-task (motor, verbal, passive) were recorded following each CAB (mobile application). Results: When compared to control, AM, PM, and BOTH increased on-task behavior AM: Delta 10.4%, PM: Delta 10.5%, BOTH: Delta 14%; p < .001). AM was most beneficial for reducing off-task motor (Delta-6.5%) and off-task verbal (Delta-3%) behavior, while PM was most beneficial for reducing off-task passive (Delta-9%) behavior. These effects were greatest in those students demonstrating higher amounts off-task behavior during CTRL (r > 0.67, p < .001). Students achieved an additional 8.4 (p = .070; d = 0.93), 12.2 (p < .001, d = 0.49), and 6.3 min (p = .09, d = 0.47) of moderate-vigorous physical activity (MVPA) over 24 h following a CAB vs CTRL in AM, PM, and BOTH, respectively. Additionally, performing any of the CAB conditions increased the number of steps taken during the school day by an average of 2007 steps (p < .009). Conclusion: Overall, these results demonstrate that CAB improve both on-task behavior and PA levels, regardless of time of day. However, performing two CAB (BOTH) is recommended to derive the greatest improvements in on-task behavior across the school day.		[Broad, Abigail A.; Bornath, Derek P. D.; Grisebach, Daniel; McCarthy, Seth F.; Bryden, Pamela J.; Robertson-Wilson, Jennifer; Hazell, Tom J.] Wilfrid Laurier Univ, Waterloo, ON, Canada; [Hazell, Tom J.] Wilfrid Laurier Univ, Dept Kinesiol & Phys Educ, 75 Univ Ave W, Waterloo, ON N2L 3C5, Canada								22							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000718738500001	51	Article; Article		
J	Pacheco, Matheus M.; Dos Santos, Fernando G.; Marques, Maria T. S. P.; Maia, Jose A. R.; Tani, Go								Transitional Movement Skill Dependence on Fundamental Movement Skills: Testing Seefeldt's Proficiency Barrier								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				93	4			718	727		10.1080/02701367.2021.1912691			OCT 2 2022	2022	Purpose: In 1979 Vern Seefeldt postulated that individuals that did not achieve a given level of proficiency in the fundamental movement skills (FMS) would be limited in performance on new and more complex skills during development. This hypothesis, the proficiency barrier, inspired research in motor development but, to the best of our knowledge, was never empirically tested. The present article tested three potential mathematical functions (linear, sigmoidal and piecewise) describing the proficiency barrier relating FMS with a transitional movement skill (TMS, a more complex movement skill). Methods: 87 children aged 7 to 10 years were tested on six skills of the TGMD-2 test battery (running, hopping, leaping, kicking, catching and stationary bouncing) and dribbling (a combination of running and stationary bouncing). Results: The results showed evidence for the proficiency barrier based on a specific sigmoidal relation. We also identified critical movement aspects from FMS that seem to induce this relation. Conclusion: There is some evidence supporting Seefeldt's Proficiency Barrier.		[Pacheco, Matheus M.; Dos Santos, Fernando G.; Marques, Maria T. S. P.; Tani, Go] Univ Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Maia, Jose A. R.] Univ Porto, Porto, Portugal; [Dos Santos, Fernando G.] Univ Sao Paulo, Sch Phys Educ & Sport, Prof Mello Moraes 65, BR-05508030 Sao Paulo, Brazil								15							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000717339700001	43	Article; Article		
J	Geisen, Mai; Klatt, Stefanie								Real-time feedback using extended reality: A current overview and further integration into sports								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	5			1178	1194	17479541211051006	10.1177/17479541211051006			OCT 2022	2022	The learning process in humans is reinforced with feedback on actions. In sports, feedback plays an important role in optimizing motion techniques. Athletes can learn and internalize correct motion executions in order to improve their performance. The most widely used feedback method in sports is response advice by experts (coaches). Meanwhile, technical devices are useful for promoting motor learning. With the help of extended reality, such as virtual reality, augmented reality and mixed reality, it is possible to receive visual feedback through (head-mounted) displays during motion execution for real-time corrections in motor learning. The use of extended reality real-time feedback is becoming increasingly common in many application fields of motor learning. So far, forms of real-time feedback have mainly been used in the health and medical sector. In sports, the increasing exploration of real-time feedback could provide a useful supplement to conventional feedback methods. Real-time feedback using extended reality could enable a better self-motion perception and faster learning success, consequently, having a positive effect on the performance development of athletes. This article summarizes the current use of real-time feedback (Prior application of real-time XR feedback in various research fields section), presents the useful addition of extended reality real-time feedback to common feedback methods in sports (Framework of the addition of real-time XR feedback in sports section), and recommends a possible integration of real-time feedback in sports training with the help of a model (Concept development section). Overall, the benefits of using extended reality technologies are presented, and a human-system-interaction in sports is proposed.		[Geisen, Mai; Klatt, Stefanie] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Exercise Training & Sport Informat, Cologne, Germany; [Klatt, Stefanie] Univ Brighton, Sch Sport & Hlth Sci, Eastbourne, England; [Geisen, Mai] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Exercise Training & Sport Informat, Cologne, Germany								42							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000716468300001	91	Article; Article		
J	Gesser, Thomas B.; Flanagan, Sean P.; Vrongistinos, Konstantinos; Whiting, William C.								Centre of mass kinematics of the hammer and thrower during different hammer-throwing drills utilised for training								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	11			2034	2052		10.1080/14763141.2021.1991994			NOV 1 2024	2024	During elite-level hammer throws, the vertical displacement of the centre of mass (COM) of the thrower and hammer are approximately 180 degrees out of phase (the hammer's COM is at its high point when the thrower's COM is at its low point, and vice versa) prior to the hammer's release. This out-of-phase coordination pattern contributes to the velocity of the hammer, which ultimately contributes to the distance thrown. Several drills are used to improve coordination between the thrower's and hammer's COM, but it is not currently known if the out-of-phase pattern is present during these drills. This study examined the relative phase between the COM of the hammer and thrower during two different rotational drills: The Double Hammer Head and Single Arm drills. Using a 12-camera motion analysis system, COM kinematics for both the hammer and thrower were examined for seven NCAA Division I throwers during the two drills. Contrary to their purported purpose, the phase angles between thrower's and hammer's COM were significantly different from 180 degrees during both drills. Further research should be conducted to examine the mechanical factors of hammer throwing drills, as well as the effect such drills have when implemented within training programs.		[Gesser, Thomas B.; Flanagan, Sean P.; Vrongistinos, Konstantinos; Whiting, William C.] Calif State Univ Northridge, Dept Kinesiol, Northridge, CA 91330 USA; [Gesser, Thomas B.] Calif State Univ Northridge, Dept Kinesiol, Northridge, CA 91330 USA								1							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000714313400001	19	Article; Article		
J	Farooqi, Ali; Talwar, Divya; Tata, Ravi; Harwood, Kathleen; Maguire, Kathleen								Comparison of pediatric performance athlete injuries presenting to emergency departments								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				51	1			64	72		10.1080/00913847.2021.1996863			JAN 2 2023	2023	Objective Pediatric injuries in performance sports represent a significant healthcare burden and account for over 50,000 annual Emergency Department (ED) visits in the United States. The objective of this study was to characterize and compare pediatric injury presentation across the most common performance sports. Methods The National Electronic Injury Surveillance System (NEISS) database was retrospectively analyzed for pediatric injuries (3-18 years) related to gymnastics, dance, or cheerleading from 2015-2019. Cases were categorized as children (<11 years) or adolescent (>= 11 years). Injuries were categorized as orthopedic (fractures, dislocations, sprain, strains), non-orthopedic (contusion, internal injury, laceration), concussion, or other/unknown. Case narratives were used to categorize mechanism of injury as contact or non-contact. Appropriate sample NEISS weights estimation was applied for statistical analysis and Confidence Intervals (CI). Results A total of 393,110 injuries were observed over the five-year study period, with a mean of 78,622 annual injuries. Gymnastics, dance, and cheerleading accounted for 136,422 injuries, 96,416 injuries, and 160,272 injuries, respectively. Most cases were adolescent (71%; 95% CI: 68-74%) and occurred in a sports-related setting (65%, 95% CI: 57-72%). Gymnastics had the highest proportion of injuries among children (50%) as compared to dancers (25%) or cheerleaders (12%) (p < 0.01). Non-contact injuries most affected the lower extremity (43-68%) and resulted in an orthopedic diagnosis (63-71%), and contact injuries had a higher proportion of injuries affecting the head, neck, and face (29-51%) and non-orthopedic diagnoses (29-38%). Gymnastics had the most upper extremity non-contact injuries (42%) and dance the most lower extremity non-contact injuries (68%) (p < 0.01). Cheerleading had the highest incidence of overall concussions (8%), contact injuries (47%), and concussions due to contact injury (15%). Conclusion Pediatric gymnasts, cheerleaders, and dancers have important similarities and differences in injury pattern which may lead to the development of sport-specific injury prevention programs for pediatric performance athletes.		[Farooqi, Ali; Maguire, Kathleen] Univ Penn, Perelman Sch Med, Philadelphia, PA 19104 USA; [Talwar, Divya; Harwood, Kathleen; Maguire, Kathleen] Childrens Hosp Penn, Clin Orthopaed Surg, Dept Orthopaed, Philadelphia, PA USA; [Tata, Ravi] Drexel Sch Med, Philadelphia, PA USA; [Maguire, Kathleen] Childrens Hosp Philadelphia, Dept Orthopaed, Clin Orthopaed Surg, 2nd Floor,Wood Bldg,3401 Civ Ctr Blvd, Philadelphia, PA 19104 USA								3							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000713510400001	32	Article; Article		
J	Gomez-Gonzalez, Carlos; del Corral, Julio; Rodriguez, Placido								The Who and the What of the Journal of Sports Economics-20th Anniversary Edition								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				23	6			637	658	15270025211049797	10.1177/15270025211049797			AUG 2022	2022	This article describes the content published in the Journal of Sports Economics (JSE) for its 20th anniversary. The analysis focuses on the most relevant topics and captures the characteristics of authors, institutions, and types of collaborations over a 20-year period. In total, the sample includes 663 research articles (published from February 2000 to December 2019) and 856 authors from 490 institutions. The 20-year period offers an insightful picture of sports economics research. The article discusses additional features and trends and reflects on expected directions for future research in the journal.		[Gomez-Gonzalez, Carlos] Univ Zurich, Dept Business Adm, Zurich, Switzerland; [del Corral, Julio] Univ Castilla La Mancha, Dept Econ Anal & Finance, Ciudad Real, Spain; [Rodriguez, Placido] Univ Oviedo, Dept Econ, Oviedo, Spain; [del Corral, Julio] Fac Derecho & Ciencias Sociales, Ronda Toledo S-N, Ciudad Real, Spain								7							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000798279200001	37	Article; Article		
J	Simmons, Rob								Professional Labor Markets in the <i>Journal of Sports Economics</i>								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				23	6			728	748	15270025211051062	10.1177/15270025211051062			AUG 2022	2022	This article summarises the research findings of papers published in Journal of Sports Economics on the workings of professional sports labor markets. The article covers three main themes: pay and performance, discrimination, and player mobility. The review shows what scholars have found so far and point out various gaps that researchers can fill in future work.		[Simmons, Rob] Univ Coll Cork, Cork, Ireland; [Simmons, Rob] Univ Lancaster, Lancaster, England								18							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000715836600001	73	Article; Article		
J	Mamo, Yoseph; Su, Yiran; Andrew, Damon P. S.								The transformative impact of big data applications in sport marketing: current and future directions								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				23	3			594	611		10.1108/IJSMS-03-2021-0073			JUN 28 2022	2022	Purpose As big data (BD) has increasingly become an important tool for managers and researchers to transform sport management practices, the purpose of this research is to highlight diverse data sources and modern analytical techniques that will leverage BD as a means to advance scholarship in sport management. Design/methodology/approach A comprehensive review of existing BD literature in sport management outlines new perspectives on BD research method and the application of BD in sport management. Findings First, through a thorough review of the literature, a domain-specific conceptualization that incorporates the field's mission and priorities was developed. Second, potential data sources and different types of analytical opportunities was identified, highlighting strategies for developing methodological approaches that leads to novel research questions. BD analytics can allow for more flexibility in improving methodological capability to analyze data and, thus, provide more granular and predictive insights. Finally, this paper concludes with a discussion of BD's impact on three domains of sport management, whereby the organizations yield data-driven decisions. Originality/value BD has the potential to transform the sport management operations and bridges the research-practice gap. BD research in sport management is instrumental for accumulating new knowledge and/or testing existing theories, either in a deductive fashion or by taking an inductive approach, as the field embarks to advance scholarship.		[Mamo, Yoseph] Tennessee State Univ, Nashville, TN 37203 USA; [Su, Yiran] Univ Georgia, Athens, GA 30602 USA; [Su, Yiran] Univ Georgia, Dept Kinesiol, Inst Artificial Intelligence, Athens, GA 30602 USA; [Andrew, Damon P. S.] Florida State Univ, Coll Educ, Tallahassee, FL 32306 USA; [Mamo, Yoseph] Tennessee State Univ, Nashville, TN 37203 USA								21							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000715278800001	66	Article; Article		
J	Scholes, Mark J.; Crossley, Kay M.; King, Matthew G.; Schache, Anthony G.; Kemp, Joanne L.; Semciw, Adam I.; Sritharan, Prasanna; Heerey, Joshua J.; Mentiplay, Benjamin F.								Running biomechanics in football players with and without hip and groin pain. A cross-sectional analysis of 116 sub-elite players								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				52				312	321		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.10.011			NOV 2021	2021	Objective: Examine whether football players with hip and/or groin (hip/groin) pain have impaired running biomechanics when compared to pain-free players, analysing men and women independently. Design: Cross-sectional. Setting: Biomechanics laboratory. Participants: Seventy-eight (62 men, 16 women) football players with >6 months of hip/groin pain and a positive flexion-adduction-internal rotation test and 38 (25 men, 13 women) asymptomatic players. Main outcome measures: Pelvis angles and hip, knee, and ankle joint angles and moments were analysed during the stance phase of overground running at 3-3.5 m,s(-1). Continuous joint angle and moment data were compared between symptomatic and asymptomatic football players of the same sex using statistical parametric mapping. Joint moment impulses (area under the curve) were compared between groups using linear regression models. Results: Symptomatic football players did not display significant differences in pelvis angles or lower limb joint angles, moments, or moment impulses during the stance phase of running, when compared to asymptomatic players of the same sex. Conclusion: Our large sample of football players with hip/groin pain who were still participating in competitive sport displayed similar running biomechanics to asymptomatic players. Impaired running biomechanics might exist in people with worse hip/groin pain, warranting future investigation. (C) 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Scholes, Mark J.; Crossley, Kay M.; King, Matthew G.; Schache, Anthony G.; Kemp, Joanne L.; Semciw, Adam I.; Sritharan, Prasanna; Heerey, Joshua J.; Mentiplay, Benjamin F.] La Trobe Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Human Serv & Sport, La Trobe Sport & Exercise Med Res Ctr, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Mentiplay, Benjamin F.] La Trobe Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Human Serv & Sport, La Trobe Sport & Exercise Med Res Ctr, Bundoora, Vic 3086, Australia								8							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000720117900039	53	Article; Article		
J	Brumitt, Jason; Hutchison, Marcey Keefer; Kang, Dan; Alterado, Stephen Gerard D.; Berg, Tyler; Nguyen, Bao Phuc; Neumiller, Carsten; Reynoso, Robert; Stickell, Jacob								Rotator cuff strength is not augmented by blood flow restriction training								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				52				305	311		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.10.013			NOV 2021	2021	Objective: Blood flow restriction (BFR) training utilizes a tourniquet applied to the upper or lower extremities (UE or LE) to occlude blood flow while exercising. BFR training may help augment strength in muscles that are proximal to BFR cuff application. However, prior studies have failed to demonstrate augmented strength gains in the rotator cuff when the tourniquet is applied to the UE. The purpose of this study was to evaluate if a protocol consisting of LE exercises, performed with BFR, followed by rotator cuff exercises was superior in augmenting strength, and cross-sectional area (CSA) of the rectus femoris, in untrained subjects when compared to a non-BFR training group. Design: Randomized controlled trial. Setting: University. Participants: Thirty-five subjects (mean age 25.8 +/- 1.6 y) randomized to a BFR or non-BFR group. Main outcome measures: Muscular strength measured via hand held dynamometer and the CSA of the dominant rectus femoris was measured by diagnostic ultrasound. Results: Both groups experienced significant gains in LE and rotator cuff strength. Strength increased in the BFR group by 11.6% for the supraspinatus, 34.1% for shoulder ER, 23.4% for the quadriceps, and 17.1% for the hamstrings. Strength increased in the non-BFR group by 7.3% for the supraspinatus, 20% for shoulder ER, 12.8% for the quadriceps, and 10.7% for the hamstrings. However, there were no differences in strength gains between groups. Neither group experienced a significant increase in CSA for the rectus femoris. Conclusion: The BFR protocol used in this study did not augment strength for the rotator cuff in subjects who also performed LE exercises under occlusion. (c) 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Brumitt, Jason; Hutchison, Marcey Keefer; Kang, Dan; Alterado, Stephen Gerard D.; Berg, Tyler; Nguyen, Bao Phuc; Neumiller, Carsten; Reynoso, Robert; Stickell, Jacob] George Fox Univ, Coll Phys Therapy, Newberg, OR 97132 USA; [Brumitt, Jason] George Fox Univ, Coll Phys Therapy, Newberg, OR 97132 USA								5							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000720117900038	32	Article; Article		
J	Watson, Matthew D.; Collins, Bradley K.; Davies, George J.; Riemann, Bryan L.								The Influence of Hip Flexion and Isokinetic Velocity on Hamstrings-Quadriceps Strength Ratios in Healthy Females								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				93	4			695	701		10.1080/02701367.2021.1908508			OCT 2 2022	2022	Context: Measurements of the concentric hamstrings-quadriceps strength ratio (Hc:Qc) are almost exclusively recorded in the upright, seated position (hip flexion 80-100 degrees) on an isokinetic dynamometer at angular velocities ranging from 30 degrees/s to 360 degrees/s. Further, there is a scarcity of data examining Hc:Qc ratio in females. Objective: To compare the effects of hip-flexion position (0 degrees, 45 degrees, and 90 degrees) and isokinetic velocity (60 degrees/s, 180 degrees/s, and 300 degrees/s) on knee-extension and knee-flexion torques and the Hc:Qc ratio of females. Design: Single-session, repeated measures. Setting: Biomechanics laboratory. Participants: Twenty-seven healthy young female adults. Intervention: Participants completed five repetitions of isokinetic, concentric knee-flexion and knee-extension at hip flexions of 0 degrees (supine), 45 degrees (midrange), and 90 degrees (traditional), at 60 degrees/s, 180 degrees/s, and 300 degrees/s. Main Outcome Measures: Knee extension and flexion average peak torque (PT) and resultant Hc:Qc ratios. Results: Knee-extension average PT was significantly influenced by isokinetic velocity but hip-flexion position was not. Compared to 90 degrees, knee-flexion average PT was significantly greater in the 45 degrees and 0 degrees hip positions, coupled with greater average PT decreases between 60 degrees/s and 180 degrees/s than between 180 degrees/s and 300 degrees/s. Hc:Qc ratios in the 0 degrees position were significantly greater than in the other positions and increased significantly as testing velocity increased. Conclusions: Exclusively using a seated, upright position during knee isokinetic testing on females may misrepresent knee strength at more-functional hip positions. We recommend evaluating isokinetic knee strength using a supine position to better reflect hip positions during daily and sporting activities, throughout movement specific velocities.		[Watson, Matthew D.; Collins, Bradley K.; Davies, George J.; Riemann, Bryan L.] Georgia Southern Univ, Armstrong Campus, Savannah, GA 31419 USA; [Riemann, Bryan L.] Georgia Southern Univ, Biodynam & Human Performance Ctr, Armstrong Campus, Savannah, GA 31419 USA								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000714442300001	34	Article; Article		
J	Palsson, Anders; Kostogiannis, Ioannis; Ageberg, Eva								Physical impairments in longstanding hip and groin pain: Cross-sectional comparison of patients with hip-related pain or non-hip-related groin pain and healthy controls								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				52				224	233		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.09.011			NOV 2021	2021	ABSTR A C T Objectives: To compare physical impairments between patients with hip-related pain and those with non-hip-related groin pain, and to compare both patient groups with healthy controls. Design: Cross-sectional. Participants: Eighty-one hip and groin pain patients were consecutively included and categorized into having hip-related pain or non-hip-related groin pain. Twenty-eight healthy controls were recruited. Settings: Tertiary care. Main outcome measures: All participants performed physical impairment testing including hip ROM, muscle function, and functional tasks. An analysis of covariates was used for analysis between patients groups and controls. Results: Patients with hip-related pain showed reduced hip ROM in internal rotation compared to pa-tients with non-hip-related groin pain and controls (p < 0.026, d-0.65;-0.97). No differences in muscle function or performance in functional tasks were observed between patients with hip-related pain and those with non-hip-related groin pain (p > 0.136, d 0.00; 0.68). Both patient groups had worse muscle function and worse performance in functional tasks compared to controls (p < 0.048, d-0.67;-1.83). Conclusions: Both patients with and without hip-related pain had worse muscle function and worse performance in functional tasks compared to matched controls but no differences were observed be-tween the patient groups. Only patients with hip-related pain had reduced ROM in internal rotation. (c) 2021 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).		[Palsson, Anders; Ageberg, Eva] Lund Univ, Dept Hlth Sci, POB 157, S-22100 Lund, Sweden; [Kostogiannis, Ioannis] Lund Univ, Dept Orthopaed, Clin Sci, Lund, Sweden; [Palsson, Anders] Lund Univ, Dept Hlth Sci, POB 157, S-22100 Lund, Sweden								12							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000720117900028	33	Article; Article		
J	Lawrenson, Peter R.; Crossley, Kay M.; Hodges, Paul W.; Vicenzino, Bill T.; King, Matthew G.; Heerey, Joshua J.; Semciw, Adam I.								Hip muscle activity in male football players with hip-related pain; a comparison with asymptomatic controls during walking								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				52				209	216		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.09.008			NOV 2021	2021	Objectives: Compare muscle activity between male football players with and without hip-related pain. Morphological and intra-articular features of hip-related pain are proposed pre-cursors to hip osteoarthritis. Altered muscle activity is a feature of severe hip osteoarthritis, but it is not known whether differences exist earlier in the pathological spectrum. Design: Cross-sectional; Setting: University laboratory; Participants: Forty-two male football players with hip-related pain; and 19 asymptomatic controls. Main outcome measures: Hip muscle activity (Gluteus maximus, gluteus medius, tensor facia latae, adductor longus and rectus femoris) was recorded during walking using surface electromyography (EMG). Results: Men with hip-related pain had sustained rectus femoris activity prior to toe-off (47-51% of the gait cycle) (p = 0.01, ES = 0.51) unlike controls who had reduced activity. In men with severe hip-related pain, gluteus maximus EMG was sustained into mid-stance (12-20% of the gait cycle) (F = 6.15, p < 0.01) compared to controls. Conclusions: Differences in rectus femoris and gluteus maximus activity were identified between male footballers with and without hip-related pain. The pattern of gluteus maximus EMG relative to peak, approaching mid-stance in severe hip-related pain, is consistent with observations in severe hip osteoarthritis. This supports the hypothesis that symptom severity may influence muscle activity across the spectrum of hip degeneration. (c) 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Lawrenson, Peter R.; Crossley, Kay M.; Hodges, Paul W.; Vicenzino, Bill T.; Semciw, Adam I.] Univ Queensland, Sch Hlth & Rehabil Sci, Brisbane, Qld 4072, Australia; [Lawrenson, Peter R.] Univ Otago, Dept Anat, Sch Biomed Sci, Dunedin 9016, New Zealand; [Lawrenson, Peter R.; Crossley, Kay M.; King, Matthew G.; Heerey, Joshua J.; Semciw, Adam I.] La Trobe Univ, Sch Allied Hlth, Coll Sci Hlth & Engn, LA Trobe Sport & Exercise Med Res Ctr LASEM, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Semciw, Adam I.] Northern Hlth, Northern Ctr Hlth Educ & Res, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Lawrenson, Peter R.] Univ Queensland, Sch Hlth & Rehabil Sci, Brisbane, Qld 4072, Australia								9							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000720117900026	45	Article; Article		
J	Larson, Daniel; Vannatta, Nathan C.; Rutherford, Drew; Kernozek, Thomas W.								Kinetic changes associated with extended knee landings following anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction in females								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				52				180	188		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.09.003			NOV 2021	2021	Objectives: To determine the relationship between knee flexion excursion symmetry and lower extremity kinematics, kinetics, and muscle, joint, and ligament forces in females 1-3 years after ACL reconstruction. Design: Cross-sectional . Setting: Laboratory. Participants: Twenty-one, college-aged females. Main outcome measures: Lower extremity kinetics and kinematics, including estimated muscle, tibiofemoral, and ligament forces were assessed using 3D motion analysis and a musculoskeletal modeling approach. Participants demonstrating greater than 10% asymmetry in knee flexion excursion were classified as landing with an "extended knee". Group and between-limb differences were compared . Results: Ten participants were classified as landing with an "extended knee" on the involved limb, while eleven exhibited a symmetric landing pattern. Participants landing with an "extended knee" demonstrated reduced knee extension moment and quadriceps force in the involved limb (p < 0.05). Conclusions: These findings indicate that an "extended knee" landing pattern was associated with reduced knee extension moment and quadriceps muscle force in females 1-3 years after ACL reconstruction. This may represent an altered strategy that clinicians may choose to identify and address during rehabilitation. (c) 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Larson, Daniel; Vannatta, Nathan C.] Gundersen Hlth Syst, Sports Phys Therapy Dept, Onalaska, WI USA; [Vannatta, Nathan C.; Rutherford, Drew; Kernozek, Thomas W.] Univ Wisconsin, La Crosse Inst Movement Sci, La Crosse, WI 54601 USA; [Rutherford, Drew; Kernozek, Thomas W.] Univ Wisconsin, Hlth Profess Dept, La Crosse, WI 54601 USA; [Larson, Daniel] Lawrence Mem Hosp, OrthoKansas Sports Phys Therapy Dept, Lawrence, KS USA; [Larson, Daniel] LMH Hlth West Campus, 6265 Rock Chalk Dr, Lawrence, KS 66049 USA								5							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000720117900022	66	Article; Article		
J	Werner, David M.; Davis, Ryne W.; Hinton, Andrew; Price, Samantha K.; Rowland, Jimmy L.; Barrios, Joaquin A.								Three-dimensional joint kinematic and two-dimensional quality of movement comparison between lateral and forward step-downs								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				52				162	167		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.09.005			NOV 2021	2021	Objectives: While lateral and forward step-down tasks are commonly used, they may have different kinematic and performance demands that could influence clinical assessment and rehabilitation. Therefore, the purpose of this study was to compare 3D lower extremity kinematics and 2D quality of movement between the tasks. Design: Cross-sectional comparative study. Setting: Research laboratory. Participants: Thirty healthy adults (18 females, age = 23.2 +/- 1.4 years, BMI = 23.9 +/- 2.2 kg/m2). Main outcome measures: Participants underwent 3D and 2D motion analysis. 3D variables were peak hip, knee, and ankle angles. Dichotomous clinical criteria were used for 2D assessment. An alpha level of 0.05 was used for statistical analyses. Results: In the sagittal plane, the forward step-down averaged 7 degrees more knee flexion (p < 0.001, d = 2.30) and 4 degrees more ankle dorsiflexion (p < 0.001, d = 1.72), but 2 degrees less hip flexion (p = 0.001, d = 0.64). In the frontal plane, forward step-downs averaged 1 degrees more hip adduction (p = 0.006, d = 0.54) and 1 degrees more ankle eversion (p < 0.001, d = 1.04). The forward step-down elicited 2D movement faults more often (p = 0.003). Conclusions: The increased knee flexion and ankle dorsiflexion demands of the forward step-down were accompanied by increases in frontal plane aberrations. The forward step-down may be more challenging for individuals with reduced tolerance to loaded knee flexion and/or limited ankle mobility. (C) 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Werner, David M.; Davis, Ryne W.; Hinton, Andrew; Price, Samantha K.; Rowland, Jimmy L.; Barrios, Joaquin A.] Univ Dayton, Dept Phys Therapy, 300 Coll Pk, Dayton, OH 45469 USA; [Barrios, Joaquin A.] Univ Dayton, Dept Phys Therapy, 300 Coll Pk, Dayton, OH 45469 USA								4							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000720117900019	33	Article; Article		
J	Moksnes, Havard; Ardern, Clare L.; Kvist, Joanna; Engebretsen, Lars; Risberg, May Arna; Myklebust, Grethe; Grindem, Hege								Assessing implementation, limited efficacy, and acceptability of the BEAST tool: A rehabilitation and return-to-sport decision tool for nonprofessional athletes with anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				52				147	154		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.08.011			NOV 2021	2021	Objectives: To assess the implementation, limited efficacy, and acceptability of the BEAST (better and safer return to sport) tool a rehabilitation and return-to-sport (RTS) decision tool after anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction (ACLR) in nonprofessional athletes. Design: Prospective cohort. Participants: 43 nonprofessional pivoting sport athletes with ACLR. Main outcome: Clinician-and athlete-experienced implementation challenges (implementation), changes in quadriceps power, side hop and triple hop performance from 6 to 8 months after ACLR (limited efficacy), athletes' beliefs about the individual rehabilitation and RTS plans produced by the BEAST tool (acceptability). Results: The BEAST tool was developed and then implemented as planned for 39/43 (91%) athletes. Hop and quadriceps power performance improved significantly, with the largest improvement in involved quadriceps power (standardised response mean 1.4, 95% CI:1.1-1.8). Athletes believed the rehabilitation and RTS plan would facilitate RTS (8.2 [SD: 2.0]) and reduce injury risk (8.3 [SD: 1.2]; 0 = not likely at all, 10 = extremely likely). Conclusion: The BEAST tool was implemented with few challenges and adjustments were rarely necessary. Athletes had large improvements in quadriceps power and hop performance on the involved leg. Athletes believed that the individual rehabilitation and RTS plans produced by the tool would facilitate RTS and reduce injury risk. (c) 2021 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).		[Moksnes, Havard; Engebretsen, Lars; Myklebust, Grethe; Grindem, Hege] Norwegian Sch Sport Sci, Oslo Sport Trauma Res Ctr, Dept Sports Med, Postboks 4014 Ulleval Stad, N-0806 Oslo, Norway; [Ardern, Clare L.] Sophiahemmet Univ, Dept Hlth Promot Sci, Musculoskeletal & Sports Injury Epidemiol Ctr, Box 5605, S-11486 Stockholm, Sweden; [Ardern, Clare L.] La Trobe Univ, Sport & Exercise Med Res Ctr, Kingsbury Dr, Bundoora, Vic 3086, Australia; [Kvist, Joanna] Linkoping Univ, Dept Hlth Med & Caring Sci, Unit Physiotherapy, S-58183 Linkoping, Sweden; [Kvist, Joanna; Grindem, Hege] Karolinska Inst, Stockholm Sports Trauma Res Ctr, Dept Mol Med & Surg, S-17177 Stockholm, Sweden; [Engebretsen, Lars; Risberg, May Arna] Oslo Univ Hosp, Div Orthopaed Surg, Oslo, Norway; [Risberg, May Arna] Norwegian Sch Sport Sci, Dept Sports Med, Postboks 4014 Ulleval Stad, N-0806 Oslo, Norway; [Grindem, Hege] Norwegian Sch Sport Sci, Oslo Sport Trauma Res Ctr, Dept Sports Med, Postboks 4014 Ulleval Stad, N-0806 Oslo, Norway								7							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000720117900017	29	Article; Article		
J	Selhorst, Mitchell; MacDonald, James; Martin, Lisa C.; Rodenberg, Richard; Krishnamurthy, Ramkumar; Ravindran, Reno; Fischer, Anastasia								Immediate functional progression program in adolescent athletes with a spondylolysis								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				52				140	146		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.08.009			NOV 2021	2021	Objective: To assess the preliminary evidence for the efficacy and safety of an immediate functional progression program to treat adolescent athletes with an active spondylolysis. Design: Prospective single-arm trial. Setting: Hospital-based sports medicine and physical therapy clinic. Participants: Twelve adolescent athletes (14.2 +/- 2 years, 25% female) with an active spondylolysis. Main outcome measures: Clinical outcomes included time out of sport, Micheli Functional Scale (Function and Pain) and adverse reactions. Clinical outcomes were assessed at baseline, 1 month, 3 months and 6 months. Magnetic resonance imaging was performed at baseline and 3 months to confirm diagnosis and assess healing of lesion. Results: Eleven participants (92%) fully returned to sport in a median time of 2.5 months (75 days; interquartile range 55 days, 85 days). All participants demonstrated marked improvements in pain and function by the end of the program. One participant (8%) had an adverse reaction during care with a significant recurrence of LBP and had not returned to sport by 6 months. Magnetic resonance imaging demonstrated improvement of the spondylolytic lesion in all but one participant. Conclusion: The immediate functional progression program appears a viable method for treating active spondylolysis and warrants future research. (c) 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Selhorst, Mitchell] Nationwide Childrens Hosp, Sports & Orthoped Phys Therapy, Columbus, OH USA; [MacDonald, James; Rodenberg, Richard; Ravindran, Reno; Fischer, Anastasia] Nationwide Childrens Hosp, Div Sports Med, Columbus, OH USA; [Martin, Lisa C.; Krishnamurthy, Ramkumar] Nationwide Childrens Hosp, Dept Radiol, Columbus, OH USA; [Selhorst, Mitchell] 6499 East Broad St,Suite 140, Columbus, OH 43213 USA								6							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000720117900016	47	Article; Article		
J	Howell, David R.; Seehusen, Corrine N.; Walker, Gregory A.; Reinking, Sarah; Wilson, Julie C.								Neuromuscular training after concussion to improve motor and psychosocial outcomes: A feasibility trial								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				52				132	139		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.05.014			NOV 2021	2021	Objective: To determine the feasibility of an 8-week neuromuscular training program initiated upon return-to-play clearance following concussion. Design: Feasibility trial. Setting: A single sports medicine center. Participants: We approached n = 54 patients; n = 32 agreed to participate (59%). N = 27 participants returned for their second visit at return-to-play clearance (84%) and were randomized to neuromuscular training (n = 13) or standard-of-care (n = 14). Main outcome measures: Participants completed three assessments: within 14 days post-concussion, immediately after return-to-play clearance, and 8-weeks following return-to-play clearance. The intervention aimed to achieve positive neuromuscular adaptations and occurred 2x/week for 8 weeks under supervision. Results: N = 2 participants randomized to the intervention elected not to participate, both due to schedule conflicts (e.g., time required to meet with the study team). Participants began the intervention an average of 11 days after return-to-play clearance, the majority (91%) completed >75% of training sessions, and training sessions lasted an average of 18.2 +/- 4.8 min. One participant stopped the intervention after 7 training sessions due to time availability. Conclusion: It is feasible to initiate a neuromuscular training program for most athletes shortly after returning to play following concussion. Clinicians and researchers may consider this approach to mitigate the increased musculoskeletal injury risk for concussion patients returning to sports. (c) 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Howell, David R.; Seehusen, Corrine N.; Walker, Gregory A.; Reinking, Sarah; Wilson, Julie C.] Childrens Hosp Colorado, Ctr Sports Med, Aurora, CO USA; [Howell, David R.; Walker, Gregory A.; Wilson, Julie C.] Univ Colorado, Sch Med, Dept Orthoped, Aurora, CO USA; [Wilson, Julie C.] Univ Colorado, Sch Med, Dept Pediat, Aurora, CO USA; [Howell, David R.] Univ Colorado, Sch Med, Dept Orthoped, ATC Sports Med Ctr Childrens Hosp Colorado, 13123 E 16th Ave,B060, Aurora, CO 80045 USA								9							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000720117900015	43	Article; Article		
J	Topdemir, Ebru; Birinci, Tansu; Taskiran, Hanifegul; Mutlu, Ebru Kaya								The effectiveness of Kinesio taping on playing-related pain, function and muscle strength in violin players: A randomized controlled clinical trial								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				52				121	131		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.08.010			NOV 2021	2021	Objectives: This study aimed to investigate the effectiveness of Kinesio taping (KT) on playing-related pain, upper extremity and hand function, grip and pinch strength in violin players. Design: Randomized controlled trial. Setting: Faculty of health sciences. Participants: One hundred seventeen participants who were professional violinists for at least two years (82 women; mean age, 22.76 +/- 3.87 years) were randomized to receive either therapeutic tape application (KT group), a sham tape application (placebo group), or no application (control group) for one week. Outcome measures: The primary outcome was the Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder and Hand (DASH) in one week. The secondary outcomes were the Visual Analogue Scale (VAS), the Purdue Pegboard Test, grip and pinch strength. Outcome measures were performed at baseline, immediately after the intervention, and one week later (follow-up). Participants were asked to play the "Violin Concerto No.2, Op.35 (Rieding, Oskar)"; pre-and post-performance pain and grip and pinch strength were assessed. Results: The overall group-by-time interaction was not significant for DASH, but the improvement in the mean VAS-playing was slightly better in the KT group than in others (p < 0.05). The mean post-performance VAS-playing remained similar in the KT group while slightly increasing in the other groups (p < 0.05). In addition, a decrease in the mean post-performance grip strength of the left hand was significantly lower in the KT group than in the other groups (p < 0.05). Conclusions: Violin players receiving an application of KT represented minor improvements in playing-related pain, and post-performance pain intensity and grip strength of the left hand slightly remained after 1 week kT application. The possible post-performance effect of the tape on the pain intensity and grip strength must also be considered because KT can be used during the performance. (c) 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Topdemir, Ebru] Istanbul Aydin Univ, Inst Hlth Sci, Istanbul, Turkey; [Birinci, Tansu] Istanbul Medeniyet Univ, Dept Physiotherapy & Rehabil, Fac Hlth Sci, Istanbul, Turkey; [Taskiran, Hanifegul] Istanbul Aydin Univ, Dept Physiotherapy & Rehabil, Fac Hlth Sci, Istanbul, Turkey; [Mutlu, Ebru Kaya] Istanbul Univ Cerrahpasa, Dept Physiotherapy & Rehabil, Fac Hlth Sci, Istanbul, Turkey; [Mutlu, Ebru Kaya] Istanbul Univ, Saglik Bilimleri Fak, Fizyoterapi Rehabil, TR-34500 Istanbul, Turkey								3							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000720117900014	36	Article; Article		
J	Korakakis, Vasileios; Kotsifaki, Argyro; Korakaki, Alexandra; Karanasios, Stefanos; Whiteley, Rodney								Current perspectives and clinical practice of physiotherapists on assessment, rehabilitation, and return to sport criteria after anterior cruciate ligament injury and reconstruction. An online survey of 538 physiotherapists								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				52				103	114		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.08.012			NOV 2021	2021	Objectives: To evaluate the perspectives and clinical practice of physiotherapists regarding rehabilitation after anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction (ACLR). Design: Online survey. Setting: Survey platform. Participants: Greek physiotherapists. Outcome measures: The survey consisted of 7 sections: participant demographics, importance of ACLR rehabilitation, clinical measurements, practice, criteria to progress rehabilitation, return to running and return to sport. Results: Significant variability in measures and criteria used for clinical decision-making were found including: limb symmetry in strength and function, knee range of motion and effusion, progression, and return to sport criteria. The majority of the practitioners (28.3%) extrapolate knee strength from hop capacity. Return to running ranged from 3 to 5 months post-operatively reflecting that this was tied to physical capacities, not time from surgery. 70.0% of the Greek physiotherapists would allow return to sport <9 months after ACLR. Agreement was found in using: physical measures, function, and dynamic stability in ACLR rehabilitation, but the mode and interpretation varied substantially. Less than 29.0% of the physiotherapists reported using patient-reported outcome measures in their decision-making. Conclusion: Current ACLR rehabilitation practices in Greece are largely not aligned with the contem-porary scientific evidence and guidelines. (c) 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Korakakis, Vasileios; Kotsifaki, Argyro; Whiteley, Rodney] Orthopaed & Sports Med Hosp, Aspetar, Doha, Qatar; [Korakakis, Vasileios] Univ Thessaly, Fac Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Trikala, Greece; [Korakakis, Vasileios; Korakaki, Alexandra; Karanasios, Stefanos] Hellen OMT Educ, Athens, Greece; [Korakakis, Vasileios] Orthopaed & Sports Med Hosp, POB29222, Doha, Qatar								25							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000720117900012	66	Article; Article		
J	Lago-Fuentes, Carlos; Padron-Cabo, Alexis; Fernandez-Villarino, Marian; Mecias-Calvo, Marcos; Munoz-Perez, Iker; Garcia-Pinillos, Felipe; Rey, Ezequiel								Follicular phase of menstrual cycle is related to higher tendency to suffer from severe injuries among elite female futsal players								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				52				90	96		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.08.008			NOV 2021	2021	Objective: To describe the injury incidence according to each phase of menstrual cycle (MC) in professional futsal players along two consecutive season and, secondly, to compare the injury incidence and frequency between different phases of the MC. Design: Prospective cohort study. Settings: Elite futsal players. Participants: 179 players. Main outcome measure: Players were registered along two consecutive seasons. Results: 191 injuries were reported throughout both seasons. The injury incidence was 30.63 days-off during the follicular phase, 23.6 during ovulatory phase and 17.59 days-off in luteal phase, showing higher incidence during the follicular phase. No statistical differences (p > 0.05) were reported for any variable comparing among the three phases of MC. Conclusions: This study suggests the relevance to track the MC, but reduces its possible relationship or influence on the injury distribution during each phase of the MC. The knowledge of injury incidence, burden and etiology is a key factor to design injury prevention programs with the focus on the most common injuries, where MC could be included as a complementary factor. (c) 2021 Published by Elsevier Ltd.		[Lago-Fuentes, Carlos; Mecias-Calvo, Marcos; Munoz-Perez, Iker] Univ Europea Atlantico, Fac Ciencias Salud, Santander, Spain; [Lago-Fuentes, Carlos; Padron-Cabo, Alexis; Fernandez-Villarino, Marian; Rey, Ezequiel] Univ Vigo, Fac Educ & Sport Sci, Pontevedra, Spain; [Mecias-Calvo, Marcos] Ctr Invest & Tecnol Ind Cantabria CITIC, Santander, Spain; [Munoz-Perez, Iker] Sport Training, Baracaldo, Spain; [Garcia-Pinillos, Felipe] Univ Granada, Dept Phys Educ & Sports, Granada, Spain; [Garcia-Pinillos, Felipe] Univ La Frontera, Dept Phys Educ Sports & Recreat, Temuco, Chile; [Lago-Fuentes, Carlos] Univ Europea Atlantico, Fac Hlth Sci, Calle Isabel Torres 21, Santander 39011, Spain								20							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000720117900010	42	Article; Article		
J	Llurda-Almuzara, Luis; Perez-Bellmunt, Albert; Labata-Lezau, Noe; Lopez-de-Celis, Carlos; Canet-Vintro, Max; Cadellans-Arroniz, Aida; Moure-Romero, Lourdes; Aiguade-Aiguade, Ramon								Relationship between lower limb EMG activity and knee frontal plane projection angle during a single-legged drop jump								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				52				13	20		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.07.007			NOV 2021	2021	Objectives: To assess a relationship between lower limb muscle activity and the frontal plane knee ki-nematics during a single-legged drop jump. Design: Correlation study; Setting: Functional Anatomy Laboratory. Participants: 35 healthy collegiate male athletes. Main outcome measures: Muscle activity (%MVIC) of gluteus maximus, gluteus medius, biceps femoris, semitendinosus, vastus medialis quadriceps, vastus lateralis quadriceps, medial gastrocnemius and lateral gastrocnemius; peak knee frontal plane projection angle; and Pearson's correlation coefficients between muscle activity and peak knee frontal plane projection angle. All outcomes were assessed for both dominant and non-dominant limbs. Results: Significant correlations (r = 0.46-0.60, P < 0.05) were found between the muscle activities of the gluteus maximus, gluteus medius, biceps femoris, and semitendinosus, when compared to the knee frontal plane projection angle. Conclusion: Gluteal muscles and hamstring muscles are associated with the peak knee frontal plane projection angle during a single-legged drop jump test. Thus, gluteal and hamstring muscle activities should be considered when developing rehabilitation or injury prevention programs. (C) 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Llurda-Almuzara, Luis; Perez-Bellmunt, Albert; Labata-Lezau, Noe; Canet-Vintro, Max] Univ Int Catalunya, Dept Basic Sci, Anat Unit, Barcelona 08195, Spain; [Llurda-Almuzara, Luis; Perez-Bellmunt, Albert; Labata-Lezau, Noe; Lopez-de-Celis, Carlos; Canet-Vintro, Max; Cadellans-Arroniz, Aida] Univ Int Catalunya, ACTIUM Funct Anat Grp, Barcelona 08195, Spain; [Moure-Romero, Lourdes; Aiguade-Aiguade, Ramon] Univ Lleida, Nursing & Physiotherapy Dept, St Lleida, Spain; [Aiguade-Aiguade, Ramon] Biomed Res Inst Lleida, Hlth Care Res Grp GRECS, St Lleida 25198, Spain; [Lopez-de-Celis, Carlos; Cadellans-Arroniz, Aida] Univ Int Catalunya, Physiotherapy Dept, Fac Med & Hlth Sci, Barcelona 08195, Spain; [Perez-Bellmunt, Albert] Univ Int Catalunya, Barcelona 08195, Spain								20							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000720117900002	42	Article; Article		
J	Thibodeaux, Jordan; Winsler, Adam								Stay Positive: Self-talk in Relation to Motivational Climate, Goal Orientation, and Self-talk Encouragement in Tennis								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				93	4			769	780		10.1080/02701367.2021.1918323			OCT 2 2022	2022	Purpose: Motivation among young athletes can be reflected in their self-talk, a behavior that is often encouraged by coaches. Most research on self-talk in sport involves self-report, thus observational studies of the actual self-talk used in sport in relation to athlete motivation and coach support are needed. Methods: We observed young elite tennis athletes (N = 28) talking to themselves on the court and obtained self-reported measures of self-talk use, goal-orientation for sport, perception of coach motivational climate, and coach encouragement of self-talk. Results Results showed that higher levels of perceived coach mastery climate and personal mastery orientation typically coincided with more reported use of positive self-talk, while higher levels of perceived ego climate coincided with more frequent observed positive and motivational self-talk on the court. Coaches generally encouraged self-talk, but associations between coach encouragement and athlete self-talk use were sparse. Conclusion: Results suggest researchers need to examine how encouragement of self-talk affects both reported (inner) and observed (external) self-talk in youth sport.		[Thibodeaux, Jordan] Arkansas Tech Univ, 407 West Q St, Russellville, AR 72801 USA; [Winsler, Adam] George Mason Univ, Fairfax, VA USA; [Thibodeaux, Jordan] Arkansas Tech Univ, 407 West Q St, Russellville, AR 72801 USA								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000713473600001	66	Article; Article		
J	Tottori, Nobuaki; Suga, Tadashi; Isaka, Tadao; Fujita, Satoshi								Knee Extensor Morphology and Sprint Performance in Preadolescent Sprinters								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				93	4			781	787		10.1080/02701367.2021.1919593			OCT 2 2022	2022	Purpose: We previously reported that the cross-sectional area of the quadriceps femoris is correlated with the sprint performance of preadolescent sprinters. This finding suggests a close relationship between knee extensor torque-enhancing morphology and sprint performance in this young population. To further clarify this issue, in this study, we examined the relationships of the quadriceps femoris muscle volume (MV) and knee extensor moment arm (MA) with sprint performance in preadolescent sprinters. Methods: The quadriceps femoris MV and knee extensor MA in 15 sprint-trained preadolescent boys were measured using magnetic resonance imaging. Sprint performance was evaluated using a personal best 100-m sprint time and the higher 50-m sprint velocity of two 50-m sprint tests. Results: The quadriceps femoris MV and knee extensor MA were significantly correlated with personal best 100-m sprint time (r = -0.810 and -0.752, P <= 0.001 for both) and 50-m sprint velocity (r = 0.814 and 0.702, P < .01 for both). Furthermore, the relative quadriceps femoris MV normalized to body mass was significantly correlated with both the personal best 100-m sprint time (r = -0.620, P = .014) and 50-m sprint velocity (r = 0.686, P = .005). In contrast, no significant correlations were observed between the relative knee extensor MA normalized to body height and both sprint performance parameters. Conclusions: These findings suggest that the quadriceps femoris size, rather than the knee extensor MA dimension, is a more important morphological factor for achieving superior sprint performance in preadolescent sprinters.		[Tottori, Nobuaki; Suga, Tadashi; Isaka, Tadao; Fujita, Satoshi] Ritsumeikan Univ, Shiga, Japan; [Suga, Tadashi] Ritsumeikan Univ, Shiga, Japan; [Suga, Tadashi] Ritsumeikan Univ, Fac Sport & Hlth Sci, 1-1-1 Nojihigashi,Kusatsu, Shiga 5258577, Japan								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000713474000001	34	Article; Article		
J	Bayne, Helen; Cockcroft, John; Robyn, Aneurin; Louw, Quinette								Objective classification of countermovement jump force-time curve modality: within athlete-consistency and associations with jump performance								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	11			2053	2064		10.1080/14763141.2021.1991995			NOV 1 2024	2024	Force-time curves produced during a countermovement jump (CMJ) have traditionally been classified by visual observation as either unimodal (one concentric phase peak) or bimodal (two peaks). The association between CMJ modality and jump performance remains unclear and future studies may benefit from standardising and expanding modality classification. This study described a numerical method based on the timing and relative magnitude of concentric force-time curve prominences. Adult male elite rugby union players (n = 214) performed six CMJs on a force-instrumented treadmill and an algorithm using turning-point logic was applied to categorise jumps and define modality sub-groups. A sensitivity analysis demonstrated that the minimum prominence threshold (MPT) affected categorisation, as the proportion of bimodal jumps decreased with each 1% increase in MPT. Within-athlete consistency was also affected; between 43% and 63% of participants were consistently categorised as bimodal or unimodal depending on the selected MPT. Modified reactive strength index (RSImod), but not jump height or take-off momentum, was greater in unimodal jumps. Take-off momentum and RSImod were greater in subcategories where maximum force occurred early in the concentric phase. Future research should implement objective classification methods to enhance transparency and comparability and consider subcategories to investigate CMJ force production strategies.		[Bayne, Helen] Univ Pretoria, Dept Physiol, Fac Hlth Sci, Pretoria, South Africa; [Cockcroft, John] Stellenbosch Univ, Neuromech Unit, Cent Analyt Facil, Stellenbosch, South Africa; [Robyn, Aneurin; Louw, Quinette] Stellenbosch Univ, Div Physiotherapy, Dept Hlth & Rehabil Sci, Stellenbosch, South Africa; [Bayne, Helen] Univ Pretoria, Dept Physiol, Fac Hlth Sci, Pretoria, South Africa								3							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000712782000001	14	Article; Article		
J	Menezes, Glauber B.; Oliveira, Ricardo S.; Ferreira, Ayrton B. M.; Assis, Tereza V. L.; Batista, Elias S.; Oliver, Jon L.; Lloyd, Rhodri S.; Mortatti, Arnaldo L.								Does motor coordination influence perceptual-cognitive and physical factors of agility in young soccer players in a sport-specific agility task?								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	11			2108	2121		10.1080/14763141.2021.1995476			NOV 1 2024	2024	This study aims to determine whether motor coordination influences the perception-decision time (perceptual-cognitive factor) and movement response time (physical factor) of young soccer players in a sport-specific agility task regardless of maturation. Eighty-seven young male soccer players were analysed. Anthropometric measurements were used to determine the maturity offset, while physical qualities including agility, change of direction speed (CODS) and motor coordination were also assessed. The following variables were obtained from these tests: Motor coordination score, perception-decision time, movement response time, agility time and CODS time. Motor coordination revealed a non-significant correlation with perception-decision time (r = 0.10, p = 0.34). However, motor coordination showed negative and significant correlations with CODS time (r = -0.47, p < 0.01), agility time (r = -0.52, p < 0.01) and movement response time (r = -0.62, p < 0.01). In addition, regression analysis showed that each increase in motor coordination score was associated with significant decreases in agility time (b = -0.023), movement response time (b = -0.021) and CODS time (b = -0.021) independent of maturity offset. The results of this study indicated that motor coordination was significantly related to the physical factors of agility in young soccer players.		[Menezes, Glauber B.; Oliveira, Ricardo S.; Ferreira, Ayrton B. M.; Assis, Tereza V. L.; Batista, Elias S.; Mortatti, Arnaldo L.] Fed Univ Rio Grande do Norte UFRN, Dept Phys Educ, Natal, RN, Brazil; [Oliver, Jon L.; Lloyd, Rhodri S.] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Sch Sport, Youth Phys Dev Ctr, Cardiff, Wales; [Oliver, Jon L.; Lloyd, Rhodri S.] AUT Univ, Sport Performance Res Inst, New Zealand SPRINZ, Auckland, New Zealand; [Lloyd, Rhodri S.] Waikato Inst Technol, Ctr Sport Sci & Human Performance, Hamilton, New Zealand; [Menezes, Glauber B.] Fed Univ Rio Grande do Norte UFRN, Dept Phys Educ, Natal, RN, Brazil								7							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000712670000001	36	Article; Article		
J	de Freitas, Victor Hugo; Mariano, Igor Moraes; Amaral, Ana Luiza; Rodrigues, Mateus Lima; Vilarinho Carrijo, Victor Hugo; Nakamura, Fabio Yuzo; Puga, Guilherme Morais								Blood Pressure and Heart Rate Variability Responses to High-intensity Interval Training in Untrained Postmenopausal Women								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				93	4			749	757		10.1080/02701367.2021.1917756			OCT 2 2022	2022	Purpose: The aim of this study was to analyze the blood pressure (BP) and heart rate variability (HRV) responses in untrained postmenopausal women submitted to acute single sessions of high-intensity interval training (HIT). Method: Sixteen postmenopausal women (59.9 +/- 5.6 years, 26.7 +/- 3.0 kg/m(2)) participated in a random order of two acute sessions in a balanced crossover format: control without exercise in sitting position or HIT session. BP and heart rate (HR) were recorded before and during 60 min following the sessions. Results: Diastolic (DBP), mean BP (MBP), and double product (DPO) showed interaction (p < .01). DBP, MBP, and DPO increased (p < .01) after HIT but not after the control session. The area under the curve (AUC) of DBP (p = .02) and DPO (p < .01) were different between conditions. Time and frequency indices of HRV presented interaction (p < .05) which impaired these indices post-HIT, but not post-control. The AUC of time and frequency HRV indices were different between conditions. Conclusions: A single session of HIT may increase BP and cardiac stress and cause perturbation of the autonomic function in untrained postmenopausal women.		[de Freitas, Victor Hugo; Mariano, Igor Moraes; Amaral, Ana Luiza; Rodrigues, Mateus Lima; Vilarinho Carrijo, Victor Hugo; Puga, Guilherme Morais] Univ Fed Uberlandia, Uberlandia, MG, Brazil; [Nakamura, Fabio Yuzo] Associate Grad Program Phys Educ UPE UFPB, Uberlandia, MG, Brazil; [Puga, Guilherme Morais] Univ Fed Uberlandia, Fac Phys Educ, Rua Benjamin Constant 1286, BR-38400678 Uberlandia, MG, Brazil								8							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000712248100001	29	Article; Article		
J	Ramirez, Faustine D.; Chang, Cindy J.; Watkins, Rhonda A.; Senter, Carlin; de Borja, Celina								Primary Care Sports Medicine fellowship opportunities for Pediatrics-trained physicians in the United States								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				51	1			73	81		10.1080/00913847.2021.1996864			JAN 2 2023	2023	Objectives To characterize Primary Care Sports Medicine (PCSM) fellowship opportunities for Pediatrics-trained physicians across all programs in the United States. Methods Cross-sectional study using data from publicly-available online sources. Data were collected from the Association of American Medical Colleges (AAMC) and American Medical Society for Sports Medicine (AMSSM) online listings of PCSM programs and cross-referenced with individual program websites. Variables such as program location, departmental sponsor, and eligibility criteria specific to pediatricians were collected. Results 202 programs were identified. 196 (97.0%) were ACGME-accredited, of which 75.0% were sponsored by Family Medicine (FM), 9.7% by Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation (PMR), 9.2% by Pediatrics, and 5.1% by Emergency Medicine (EM) departments. Pediatrics-trained physicians were eligible for 133 of 196 (67.9%) programs and 241 of 350 (68.9%) total positions. Eligibility for pediatricians was highest in Pediatrics-sponsored programs (18/18, 100.0%), followed by EM (7/10, 70.0%), FM (98/147, 66.7%), and PMR (9/19, 47.4%). 49 of 133 (36.8%) programs accepting pediatricians had discrepancies regarding eligibility criteria (e.g. did not confirm eligibility criteria on their website, listed conflicting eligibility criteria within or between their website and AMSSM listing, or did not have a website available to cross-reference). Conclusions Pediatricians are eligible for more than two-thirds of PCSM fellowship programs across the United States, including programs that are not sponsored by Pediatrics departments. Applicants may not be aware of these opportunities given discrepancies regarding eligibility in over one-third of programs. In a field underrepresented by Pediatrics-trained physicians, accurate online information and transparency of eligibility criteria are critical to raise awareness about fellowship opportunities and foster equity with regards to career opportunities for pediatricians in PCSM.		[Ramirez, Faustine D.] Univ Calif San Francisco, Dept Pediat, 550 16th St,4th Floor, San Francisco, CA 94158 USA; [Chang, Cindy J.; Senter, Carlin] Univ Calif San Francisco, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Primary Care Sports Med, San Francisco, CA 94158 USA; [Watkins, Rhonda A.; de Borja, Celina] Univ Calif San Francisco, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Div Pediat Orthopaed, San Francisco, CA 94158 USA; [Ramirez, Faustine D.] Univ Calif San Francisco, Dept Pediat, 550 16th St,4th Floor, San Francisco, CA 94158 USA								1							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000712122500001	43	Article; Article		
J	Sung, Hojun; Mills, Brian M.; Lee, Younghoon								Moments of Competitive Balance in Major League Soccer								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				23	3			329	354	15270025211051063	10.1177/15270025211051063			APR 2022	2022	In this paper, we investigate competitive balance in Major League Soccer and compare balance across talent acquisition policy regimes with a bias-corrected measure from 1996 to 2019. We evaluate multiple moments of the league talent distribution, and we add to past work by using multiple levels of aggregation that reveal heterogeneous results with respect to the distribution of talent within and across seasons. We show that there has been little improvement in competitive balance over the league's history, though there has been an increase in year-to-year stability in balance and a lower propensity for teams at the extremes of performance.		[Sung, Hojun] Incheon Natl Univ, Div Hlth & Kinesiol, 28-216,119 Acad Ro, Incheon 22012, South Korea; [Sung, Hojun] Incheon Natl Univ, Sport Sci Inst, Incheon, South Korea; [Mills, Brian M.] Univ Texas Austin, Dept Kinesiol & Hlth Educ, Austin, TX 78712 USA; [Lee, Younghoon] Sogang Univ, Sch Econ, Dept Econ, 35 Baekbeom Ro, Seoul 04107, South Korea; [Sung, Hojun] Incheon Natl Univ, Div Hlth & Kinesiol, 28-216,119 Acad Ro, Incheon 22012, South Korea								3							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000712461500001	45	Article; Article		
J	Clark, Kenneth P.; Ryan, Laurence J.; Meng, Christopher R.; Stearne, David J.								Evaluation of maximum thigh angular acceleration during the swing phase of steady-speed running								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	11			1963	1976		10.1080/14763141.2021.1986124			NOV 1 2024	2024	The hip joint and surrounding musculature must generate and withstand torque during the swing phase of running. Prior research has demonstrated that sagittal plane hip torque increases with speed, indicating that thigh angular acceleration likely increases in a similar manner and may be an important gait parameter. In this investigation, we modelled thigh angle vs. time data with a sine wave function, requiring inputs of thigh angular amplitude and stride frequency. This enabled a simple formula to model maximum thigh angular acceleration (alpha(max), rad/s(2)) during the swing phase of steady-speed running. A total of 40 participants (20 male, 20 female) completed submaximal and maximal 40 m running trials (n = 154 trials, speed range: 3.1-10.0 m/s), with kinematic data collected from 31-39 m. Thigh angle vs. time curves were well fit by a sine wave function (mean R-2 > 0.94 across all trials) and modelled alpha(max) was highly correlated with top speed (R-2 = 0.81, p < 0.001). We conclude that thigh angular acceleration is an important parameter when examining running performance across a range of speeds and the simple method introduced here to model alpha(max) may have practical utility for future examinations into high-speed running mechanics.		[Clark, Kenneth P.; Meng, Christopher R.; Stearne, David J.] West Chester Univ, Dept Kinesiol, W Chester, PA 19383 USA; [Clark, Kenneth P.] West Chester Univ, Dept Kinesiol, W Chester, PA 19383 USA								10							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000710028000001	34	Article; Article		
J	Barquero-Ruiz, Carmen; Kirk, David; Arias-Estero, Jose L.								Design and Validation of the Tactical Assessment Instrument in Football (TAIS)								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				93	3			615	632		10.1080/02701367.2021.1889457			JUL 3 2022	2022	The focus on tactics has made assessment more difficult due to the lack of knowledge in the topic and the limitations of current tactical assessment instruments. Purpose: To design and validate a tactical assessment instrument in youth football (TAIS) following an exhaustive, ecological and meticulous process and dealing with the limitations found in the literature. Method: The design was divided in two stages related to its development and validation. During the development stage: (a) a preliminary list of criteria was determined through a literature review; (b) the criteria were delimited through an exploratory observation; and (c) the adequacy of the criteria was determined by consulting experts. In the validation stage: (a) content and comprehension validity were obtained by consulting experts and through a systematic game observation; (b) construct validity was obtained by comparing the tactical outcomes from two groups with different skill levels; (c) criterion validity was established by comparing the tactical outcome using Game Performance Assessment Instrument and the present instrument, and (d) the reliability was obtained through inter-rater reliability. Results: The research process showed that the instrument is a valid and reliable tool comprised of 22 criteria to assess tactical outcomes in 8-12 years old youth football. Conclusion: The TAIS presents several advantages in practical terms with respect to assessment. First, it allows assessment of the three tactical levels nested in the unit of observation. Second, it considers all the player roles. Third, results are presented without general indexes. Fourth, it can be used to assess participants from all the institutional contexts. Finally, it includes contextual variables.		[Barquero-Ruiz, Carmen; Arias-Estero, Jose L.] UCAM Univ Catolica San Antonio Murcia, Murcia, Spain; [Kirk, David] Univ Strathclyde, Glasgow, Lanark, Scotland; [Kirk, David] Univ Queensland, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [Barquero-Ruiz, Carmen] UCAM Univ Catolica San Antonio Murcia, Fac Deporte, Campus Jeronimos S-N, Murcia 30107, Spain								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000708725500001	33	Article; Article		
J	Frere, Julien; Sanchez, Herve; Vanhaesebrouck, Romain; Cassirame, Johan								Effect of simplifying the body model to compute the energy parameters in pole vaulting								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	11			1977	1989		10.1080/14763141.2021.1989479			NOV 1 2024	2024	This study compared changes in the energy-time profiles in pole vaulting using several body models. Two-dimensional kinematics were collected from 20 successful vaults (5.20-6.01 m) performed by 10 athletes during a national meet. The linear and angular kinetic, potential, and total mechanical energy-time profiles were obtained from three pole vaulter models composed of 12, 5, and 3 segments (M-12, M-5, and M-3, respectively), as well as calculated and approximated centre of mass models. One-dimensional statistical parametric mapping was used to compare these energy-time profiles from the models, while agreements of discrete energy parameters were assessed. For all the studied energy-time profiles, there was a main effect (0.05 < p < 0.001) of the models, but pairwise comparisons showed that M-5 presented the lowest differences with M-12 in comparison with the other models (M-3 and approximated centre of mass models). In addition, M-5 showed better agreement (lower bias and small effect size) with M-12 for the studied energy parameters compared to the other models. Therefore, M-5 may be a reliable option to simplify the body model and speed up the computation of the energy-time profiles of the pole vaulter.		[Frere, Julien] Grenoble Alpes Univ, Grenoble Inst Technol, French Natl Ctr Sci Res, GIPSA Lab, Grenoble, France; [Frere, Julien] Lorraine Univ, DevAH, Nancy, France; [Sanchez, Herve; Cassirame, Johan] French Athlet Federat, FIR Div, Paris, France; [Sanchez, Herve; Cassirame, Johan] Mtraining, R&D Div, Ecole Valentin, France; [Vanhaesebrouck, Romain; Cassirame, Johan] Franche Comte Univ, Culture Sport Hlth Soc, Exercise Perfomance Hlth Innovat, Besancon, France; [Cassirame, Johan] Reims Champagne Ardenne Univ, Performance Hlth Metrol Soc Lab, Reims, France; [Frere, Julien] Grenoble Alpes Univ, Grenoble Inst Technol, French Natl Ctr Sci Res, GIPSA Lab, Grenoble, France; [Frere, Julien] Lorraine Univ, DevAH, Nancy, France								3							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000708722700001	24	Article; Article		
J	Stefan, Lovro; Neljak, Boris; Petric, Vilko; Kasovic, Mario; Vespalec, Tomas								Normative Data for Musculoskeletal Fitness in 13,217 Children and Adolescents: The Croatian Fitness (CROFIT) Study								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				93	3			528	536		10.1080/02701367.2021.1873903			JUL 3 2022	2022	Purpose: The main purpose of the study was to establish normative data for health-related musculoskeletal fitness. Method: We recruited 13,217 children and adolescents aged 11-18 years (6,181 boys and 7,036 girls; 57% of girls). To evaluate musculoskeletal fitness, the following field tests were applied: standing broad jump (cm), sprint 20 m (sec), medicine-ball throw (dm), sit-ups in one minute (#), sit-ups in one minute (short, #), and squats in one minute (#). Curves for the 10th, 20th, 30th, 40th, 50th (median), 60th, 70th, 80th, and 90th percentiles were calculated using the Lambda (L), Mu (M), and Sigma (S) method. The LMS method assumes that the data can be normalized by using a power transformation and removing the skewness. Results: Median scores for standing broad jump, sprint 20 m, medicine-ball throw, sit-ups in one minute, sit-ups in one minute (short) and squats in one minute were 185.00 cm, 3.66 sec, 80.00 dm, 46.00 x, 56.00 x and 49 x in boys and 160.00 cm, 4.01 sec, 60.00 dm, 40.00 x, 49.00 and 43 x in girls. Effect sizes (ES) showed that boys performed better in all physical fitness tests (ES = 0.50-1.05), compared to girls. In general, age-related physical fitness changes showed the plateau between ages 15 and 16 in boys, while in girls, the plateau was reached at the age of 14. Conclusions: This study shows standards for musculoskeletal tests in youth.		[Stefan, Lovro; Neljak, Boris; Kasovic, Mario] Univ Zagreb, Horvacanski Zavoj 15, Zagreb 10000, Croatia; [Petric, Vilko] Univ Rijeka, Rijeka, Croatia; [Kasovic, Mario; Vespalec, Tomas] Masaryk Univ, Brno, Czech Republic; [Stefan, Lovro] Univ Zagreb, Horvacanski Zavoj 15, Zagreb 10000, Croatia								9							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000709170300001	34	Article; Article		
J	Liu, Lingjun; Deguchi, Tatsuya; Shiokawa, Mitsuhisa; Ishii, Takanori; Oda, Yuta; Shinya, Masahiro								A biomechanics analysis of the judo osoto-gari technique: comparison of black belt and white belt judokas								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	11			2021	2033		10.1080/14763141.2021.1990993			NOV 1 2024	2024	The purpose of this study was to determine biomechanical factors for the effective execution of the osoto-gari technique by comparing differences between black belt and white belt judokas. Twenty-two male judokas (12 black belts; 10 white belts) performed osoto-gari, and the motion data were recorded using a Mac3D motion analysis system (250 Hz). The peak angular momentums of the trunk and leg of the uke were larger in the black belts than in the white belts, suggesting that the black belts rotated the uke's body more effectively than the white belts. During the swing phase, the peak angular velocities of the arms and trunk twist in the black belts were larger compared to the white belts. During the throwing phase, the black belts had substantially greater peak angular velocities of the arms, upper torso, and trunk twist. Additionally, the timing of the peak value of the upper torso and trunk twist of the black belts was closer to sweeping leg contact than that of the white belts. The results can provide coaches with suggestions for improving training protocol design when teaching osoto-gari and for helping novices more efficiently master the technique.		[Liu, Lingjun; Shinya, Masahiro] Hiroshima Univ, Grad Sch Integrated Arts & Sci, Higashihiroshima, Japan; [Deguchi, Tatsuya; Oda, Yuta] Hiroshima Univ, Grad Sch Educ, Higashihiroshima, Japan; [Shiokawa, Mitsuhisa; Shinya, Masahiro] Hiroshima Int Univ, Fac Hlth & Sports Sci, Higashihiroshima, Japan; [Ishii, Takanori] Ryotokuji Univ, Ctr Liberal Arts Educ, Urayasu, Japan; [Shinya, Masahiro] Hiroshima Int Univ, Fac Hlth & Sports Sci, Higashihiroshima, Japan								7							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000708244900001	19	Article; Article		
J	Thompson, Chris J.; Smith, Andy; Coutts, Aaron J.; Skorski, Sabrina; Datson, Naomi; Smith, Mitchell R.; Meyer, Tim								Understanding the Presence of Mental Fatigue in Elite Female Football								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				93	3			504	515		10.1080/02701367.2021.1873224			JUL 3 2022	2022	Purpose: Previous research investigating the impact of induced mental fatigue in football (soccer) has demonstrated associated performance decrements in physical, technical, tactical and decision-making performance. A common limitation amongst this research is the protocols used to induce mental fatigue which provides low ecological validity, and the inclusion of recreational or sub-elite players. Therefore, understanding the presence of mental fatigue in elite football can provide insight into protocols with greater ecological validity. Methods: The current study used focus groups with 10 elite female football players, focusing on five topics (travel, fixture congestion, receiving tactical information, pre-match routine and pressure to win) related to the perceived causes of mental fatigue in elite football (directed by anecdotal quotes in elite football and research-based theories). Results: Several themes emerged from the data; travel fatigue, inability to switch off from football, fatigue experienced following team meetings, use of pre-match music and internal pressure to succeed. Conclusion: These findings present practical recommendations to reduce mental fatigue in elite football settings, such as considering the timing, content and duration of team meetings, providing players with free time/rest where possible, and considering the modality of coaching instructions during matches.		[Thompson, Chris J.; Skorski, Sabrina; Meyer, Tim] Saarland Univ, Saarbrucken, Germany; [Smith, Andy] Edge Hill Univ, Ormskirk, England; [Coutts, Aaron J.] Univ Technol Sydney, Ultimo, Australia; [Datson, Naomi] Univ Chichester, Chichester, England; [Smith, Mitchell R.] Univ Newcastle, Callaghan, NSW, Australia; [Thompson, Chris J.] Saarland Univ, Saarbrucken, Germany								19							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000707616000001	44	Article; Article		
J	Lucena Filho, Ademar; Lima, Rodrigo Antunes; Soares, Fernanda Cunha; Bezerra, Jorge; Gomes de Barros, Mauro Virgilio								The Role of Adiposity in the Association Between Physical Activity and Blood Pressure in Children								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				93	3			578	584		10.1080/02701367.2021.1878089			JUL 3 2022	2022	Purpose: To analyze whether body adiposity mediates and/or moderates the association between time in moderate-to-vigorous physical activities (MVPA) and blood pressure in children. Methods: This was a cross-sectional study of 577 children aged 5 to 7 years old. MVPA was measured by accelerometry. Body mass index (BMI), waist circumference (WC), and the sum of tricipital and subscapular skinfolds (skinfolds) assessed children's body adiposity. Systolic (SBP) and diastolic blood pressure (DBP) were used as the dependent variables. Results: In the primary analysis adjusting for BMI or skinfolds measures, additional time in MVPA was associated with higher SBP. On the other hand, further analyses showed that children in the largest BMI tertile (beta(SBP):0.18; 95%CI: 0.12-0.24; beta(DBP):0.11; 95%CI: 0.05-0.17), waist circumference (beta(SBP):0.16; CI: 0.09-0.22; beta(DBP):0.08; CI:0.02-0.14), or sum of skinfolds (beta(SBP):0.18; CI: 0.11-0.24; beta(DBP):0.09; CI: 0.03-0.16) presented a positive relationship between MVPA and blood pressure whereas no positive association was observed for children in the first and second adiposity tertiles. Adiposity also mediated the association between MVPA and blood pressure. A decrease of 0.03 mmHg in the systolic blood pressure was observed by decreasing the sum of skinfolds for each additional minute per day in MVPA. A decrease in diastolic blood pressure of 0.02 mmHg was observed for each additional minute per day in MVPA, which was related to a negative association between time in MVPA and waist circumference and sum of skinfolds. Conclusion: Not accounting for the potential moderation and mediation role of adiposity may lead to misinterpretations in the MVPA and blood pressure relationship.		[Lucena Filho, Ademar; Lima, Rodrigo Antunes; Soares, Fernanda Cunha; Bezerra, Jorge; Gomes de Barros, Mauro Virgilio] Univ Pernambuco, Recife, PE, Brazil; [Lima, Rodrigo Antunes] Karl Franzens Univ Graz, Graz, Austria; [Soares, Fernanda Cunha] Karolinska Inst, Solna, Sweden; [Soares, Fernanda Cunha] Univ Pernambuco Reitoria UPE, Agamenon Magalhaes Ave, BR-50100010 Recife, PE, Brazil								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000707615500001	28	Article; Article		
J	Wolf, William, I; Kim, Hoon; Kipp, Kristof								Musculoskeletal modelling based estimates of load dependent relative muscular effort during resistance training exercises								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	10			1799	1803		10.1080/14763141.2021.1983636			OCT 2 2024	2024	The purpose of this study was to investigate the relative muscular effort (RME) of the hip and knee extensor and ankle plantarflexor muscle groups during the back squat (BS) and split squat (SS) exercises across four external load conditions. Motion capture and force plate data were collected as participants performed the BS and SS at 0%, 25%, 50%, and 75% of their body-mass. These data were used to calculate net joint moments (NJM) at the hip, knee, and ankle of the front leg during the SS and the matched leg during the BS. A musculoskeletal model, which accounted for force-length-velocity properties of 52 muscles, was used to estimate the maximal possible NJM (NJM(max)) of the hip and knee extensor and ankle plantarflexor muscle groups. RME was calculated as the ratio between NJM and NJM(max), and compared across exercises and loads. The results indicated that while hip extensor RME increased across all loads, the increases in hip extensor RME were disproportionately greater during the SS at loads of 50% and 75%. Knee extensor RME increased linearly across loads and did not differ between exercises. These results provide coaches and athletes with detailed information about how to optimise resistance training specificity.		[Wolf, William, I] Univ Puget Sound, Sch Phys Therapy, Tacoma, WA 98416 USA; [Kim, Hoon] Univ N Carolina, Dept Biomed Engn, Chapel Hill, NC 27515 USA; [Kipp, Kristof] Marquette Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Program Exercise Sci, Milwaukee, WI 53233 USA; [Kipp, Kristof] Marquette Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Program Exercise Sci, Milwaukee, WI 53233 USA								2							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000706260700001	19	Article; Article		
J	Potts, Todd B.								Does it pay to Play by the Rules? Respect for Rule of law, Control of Corruption, and National Success at the Summer Olympics								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				23	2			222	245	15270025211049787	10.1177/15270025211049787			FEB 2022	2022	Utilizing the set of World Governance Indicators published by the World Bank, this paper finds that scoring highly in an indicator measuring respect for rule of law and control of corruption is associated with fewer athletes disqualified and higher medal shares at the Summer Olympics from 1996-2016. Notable reductions in disqualifications and increases in medal shares occur at coincident percentile ranks in the aforementioned indicator, with nations at the 67(th) percentile rank and above having a 13.8% higher probability of medaling and a 12.11% lower probability of having an athlete disqualified. These results uncover a new link between governance and Olympic success and provide support for the existing anti-doping rules and enforcement as, ceteris paribus, it would seem that nations whose athletes respect and abide by the rules achieve higher medal shares than those whose athletes do not.		[Potts, Todd B.] Indiana Univ Penn, Dept Econ, 441 N Walk, Indiana, PA 15705 USA; [Potts, Todd B.] Indiana Univ Penn, Dept Finance & Econ, 664 Pratt Dr, Indiana, PA 15705 USA								5							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000708046300001	34	Article; Article		
J	Ferreira, Alcina Gaspar; Crespo, Catia Fernandes; Mendes, Cedric								Effects of athletic performance and marketable lifestyle on consumers' engagement with sport celebrity's social media and their endorsements								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				23	2			259	277		10.1108/IJSMS-12-2020-0211			APR 5 2022	2022	Purpose In this study, we empirically analyse the effects of sports celebrities' image on consumers' engagement with them via social media and with their endorsed brand. In particular, we focus on the sport celebrity's athletic performance and marketable lifestyle image dimensions. Design/methodology/approach An online consumer survey was conducted regarding sports celebrities' endorsement campaigns and consumers' ad recall. The data were analysed using partial least squares structural equation modelling (PLS-SEM). Moderation and mediation effects were examined, and a multigroup analysis was used to test the existence of significant differences between groups. Findings The motivation to engage with sports celebrities' social media platforms transcends athletic performance and is positively related with the marketable lifestyle. Sports celebrities who highly engage consumers through social media can promote stronger engagement with the endorsed brand, and this effect is positively moderated by the perceived level of congruence between the sport celebrity and the endorsed brand. The effect of the sport celebrity's marketable lifestyle on the endorsed brand is partially mediated by their social media engagement with consumers. Moreover, a multigroup analysis shows no statistically significant differences among gender and age groups. Originality/value This study's contribution is a better understanding of the effect of sport celebrities' image dimensions on consumers' engagement with the celebrities' social media platforms. The marketable lifestyles of celebrities are an important asset that promotes engagement with their social media platforms by consumers that in turn, raises their marketing value in terms of endorsement contracts.		[Ferreira, Alcina Gaspar; Crespo, Catia Fernandes] Polytech Leiria, ESTG, CARME, Leiria, Portugal; [Crespo, Catia Fernandes] CSG ADVANCE, Lisbon, Portugal; [Mendes, Cedric] ISCTE Business Sch, Lisbon, Portugal; [Ferreira, Alcina Gaspar] Polytech Leiria, ESTG, CARME, Leiria, Portugal								24							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000704048300001	78	Article; Article		
J	Podgorski, Tomasz; Krysciak, Jakub; Pluta, Beata; Adrian, Jacek; Marynowicz, Jakub; Krzykala, Magdalena; Konefal, Marek; Chmura, Pawel; Chmura, Jan; Andrzejewski, Marcin								A Practical Approach to Monitoring Biomarkers of Inflammation and Muscle Damage in Youth Soccer Players During a 6-Month Training Cycle								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				80	1			185	197		10.2478/hukin-2021-0093			OCT 2021	2021	The aim of the study was to determine the effects of a 6-month training cycle on muscle damage and inflammatory markers in youth male soccer players. Twenty-one soccer players were tested four times: at the beginning (T1) and immediately after the pre-season period (T2), in the middle (T3) and at the end of the competitive period (T4). Muscle damage and inflammatory markers were determined in blood taken 36 hours after the match. Throughout the training cycle significant increases (p < 0.05) of creatine kinase (T1: 254.4 U.L-1; T4: 304.2 U.L-1) and lactate dehydrogenase (T1: 382.8 U.L-1; T4: 453.2 U.L-1) activities were observed. Significant changes (p < 0.05) in platelet count (T1: 210.5.10(9).L-1; T4: 234.2.10(9).L-1), percentage of lymphocyte (T1: 39.80%; T4: 42.97%), monocyte (T1: 6.88%; T4: 9.99%) and granulocyte (T1: 53.32%; T4: 47.05%) as well as in granulocyte-to-lymphocyte (T1: 1.41; T4: 1.17) and lymphocyte-to-monocyte (T1: 6.21; T4: 4.46) ratios were noted. The correlation analysis revealed statistically significant relationships (p < 0.05) between: myoglobin and the percentage of leukocyte subpopulations and the granulocyte to lymphocyte ratio; lactate dehydrogenase and the percentage of monocyte; lactate and leukocyte count. In conclusion, the reported muscle damage and inflammatory markers in T3 and T4 indicate the need for fatigue status monitoring in youth soccer players, especially in the competitive period. Moreover granulocyte to lymphocyte and lymphocyte to monocyte ratios proved to be sensitive to fatigue changes and therefore can provide coaches and sport scientists with a broader perspective on the biochemical monitoring of training status in soccer players.		[Podgorski, Tomasz; Krysciak, Jakub] Poznan Univ Phys Educ, Dept Physiol & Biochem, Krolowej Jadwigi 27-39, PL-61871 Poznan, Poland; [Pluta, Beata; Krzykala, Magdalena; Andrzejewski, Marcin] Poznan Univ Phys Educ, Dept Methodol Recreat, Poznan, Poland; [Adrian, Jacek; Marynowicz, Jakub] Poznan Univ Phys Educ, Dept Theory & Methodol Team Sports Games, Poznan, Poland; [Konefal, Marek; Chmura, Jan] Univ Sch Phys Educ, Dept Biol & Motor Sport Bases, Wroclaw, Poland; [Chmura, Pawel] Univ Sch Phys Educ, Dept Team Games, Wroclaw, Poland; [Podgorski, Tomasz] Poznan Univ Phys Educ, Dept Physiol & Biochem, Krolowej Jadwigi 27-39, PL-61871 Poznan, Poland								13							Sport Sciences	WOS:000721170900018	38	Article; Article		
J	Trybulski, Robert; Jarosz, Jakub; Krzysztofik, Michal; Filip-Stachnik, Aleksandra; Matykiewicz, Patryk; Zmijewski, Piotr; Bichowska, Marta; Wilk, Michal								Impact of Movement Tempo Distribution on Bar Velocity During a Multi-Set Bench Press Exercise								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				80	1			277	285		10.2478/hukin-2021-0106			OCT 2021	2021	The goal of the present study was to evaluate the effect of contrast tempo movement on bar velocity changes during a multi-set bench press exercise. In randomized and counter-balanced order, participants performed three sets of the bench press exercise at 60%1RM under two testing conditions: E-E where all repetitions were performed with explosive (X/0/X/0) movement tempo; and S-E where the first two repetitions were performed with a slow tempo (5/0/X/0) while the third repetition was performed with explosive movement tempo (slow, slow, explosive). Twelve healthy men volunteered for the study (age = 30 +/- 5 years; body mass = 88 +/- 10 kg; bench press 1RM = 145 +/- 24 kg). The three-way repeated measures ANOVA (tempo x set x repetition) showed statistically significant multi-interaction effect for peak bar velocity (p < 0.01; eta(2) = 0.23), yet not for mean bar velocity (p = 0.09; eta(2) = 0.14). The post hoc results for multi-interaction revealed that peak bar velocity in the 3rd repetition was significantly higher for E-E compared to S-E only during set 1 (p < 0.001). Therefore, the distribution of movement tempo had a significant impact on peak bar velocity, but not on mean bar velocity. The decrease in peak bar velocity in the 3rd repetition during the S-E condition was observed only in the first set, while such a tendency was not observed in the second and third set.		[Trybulski, Robert] Wojciech Korfanty Sch Econ, Dept Med Sci, PL-40065 Katowice, Poland; [Trybulski, Robert] Provita Zory Med Ctr, PL-44240 Zory, Poland; [Jarosz, Jakub; Krzysztofik, Michal; Filip-Stachnik, Aleksandra; Matykiewicz, Patryk; Wilk, Michal] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Inst Sport Sci, Katowice, Poland; [Zmijewski, Piotr] Jozef Pilsudski Univ Phys Educ Warsaw, Warsaw, Poland; [Bichowska, Marta] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, Fac Phys Educ, Gdansk, Poland; [Wilk, Michal] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Inst Sport Sci, Katowice, Poland								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:000721170900025	40	Article; Article		
J	Zmijewski, Piotr; Trybek, Grzegorz; Czarny, Wojciech; Leonska-Duniec, Agata								<i>GALNTL6</i> rs558129: A Novel Polymorphism for Swimming Performance?								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				80	1			199	205		10.2478/hukin-2021-0098			OCT 2021	2021	The enzyme polypeptide N-acetylgalactosaminyltransferase like 6, encoded by the GALANTL6 gene, plays a role in the gut microbiome regarding regulation of short-chain fatty acids and their anti-inflammatory and resynthesis functions. It was hypothesized that the T allele of the GALNTL6 rs558129 polymorphism could have a positive effect on anaerobic metabolism. Thus, this study was performed to investigate the association between GALNTL6 rs558129 polymorphism and athletic performance in swimmers. A total of 147 Polish short distance (SDS) and 49 long distance swimmers (LDS) of national or international competitive levels and 379 controls were genotyped using the real-time polymerase chain reaction (real-time PCR). We found that the carriers of the T allele (CT+TT) had a 1.56 times higher chance of being SDS (odds ratio (OR): 95%CI 1.06-2.29) than the CC homozygotes. The T allele was overrepresented in the SDS compared with controls (33.7% vs. 25.7%, p = 0.025, OR 1.40, 95% CI 1.04-1.87), but no statistically significant differences were found for LDS. This study provides evidence for an association between the GALNTL6 rs558129 polymorphism and short distance swimming athlete status. Although more replication studies are needed, the preliminary data suggest an opportunity to use the analysis of GALNTL6 polymorphism along with other variants of candidate genes and standard phenotypic assessment in power-oriented sports selection.		[Zmijewski, Piotr] Jozef Pilsudski Univ Phys Educ Warsaw, PL-00809 Warsaw, Poland; [Trybek, Grzegorz] Pomeranian Med Univ, Dept Oral Surg, PL-70111 Szczecin, Poland; [Czarny, Wojciech] Univ Rzeszow, Coll Med Sci, Inst Phys Culture Studies, Ul Towarnickiego 3, PL-35959 Rzeszow, Poland; [Leonska-Duniec, Agata] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, Fac Phys Educ, PL-80336 Gdansk, Poland; [Zmijewski, Piotr] Jozef Pilsudski Univ Phys Educ Warsaw, PL-00809 Warsaw, Poland								10							Sport Sciences	WOS:000721170900019	22	Article; Article		
J	Michalik, Kamil; Danek, Natalia; Zato, Marek								Comparison of the Ramp and Step Incremental Exercise Test Protocols in Assessing the Maximal Fat Oxidation Rate in Youth Cyclists								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				80	1			163	172		10.2478/hukin-2021-0104			OCT 2021	2021	The incremental exercise test is the most common method in assessing the maximal fat oxidation (MFO) rate. The main aim of the study was to determine whether the progressive linear RAMP test can be used to assess the maximal fat oxidation rate along with the intensities that trigger its maximal (FAT(max)) and its minimal (FAT(min)) values. Our study comprised 57 young road cyclists who were tested in random order. Each of them was submitted to two incremental exercise tests on an electro-magnetically braked cycle-ergometer - STEP (50 W.3 min(-1)) and RAMP (similar to 0.278 W.s(-1)) at a 7-day interval. A stoichiometric equation was used to calculate the fat oxidation rate, while the metabolic thresholds were defined by analyzing ventilation gases. The Student's T-test, Bland-Altman plots and Pearson's linear correlations were resorted to in the process of statistical analysis. No statistically significant MFO variances occurred between the tests (p = 0.12) and its rate amounted to 0.57 +/- 0.15 g.min(-1) and 0.53 +/- 0.17 g.min(-1) in the STEP and RAMP, respectively. No statistically significant variances in the absolute and relative (to maximal) values of oxygen uptake and heart rate were discerned at the FAT(max) and FAT. intensities. The RAMP test displayed very strong oxygen uptake correlations between the aerobic threshold and FAT(max) (r = 0.93, R-2 = 0.87, p < 0.001) as well as the anaerobic threshold and FAT(min) (r = 0.88, R-2 = 0.78, p < 0.001). Our results corroborate our hypothesis that the incremental RAMP test as well as the STEP test are reliable tools in assessing MFO, FAT(max) and FAT(min) intensities.		[Michalik, Kamil] Wroclaw Univ Sport & Hlth Sci, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Dept Human Motor Skills, Wroclaw, Poland; [Danek, Natalia; Zato, Marek] Wroclaw Univ Sport & Hlth Sci, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Dept Physiol & Biochem, Wroclaw, Poland; [Michalik, Kamil] Wroclaw Univ Sport & Hlth Sci, Dept Human Motor Skills, 35 Paderewskiego St, PL-51612 Wroclaw, Poland								9							Sport Sciences	WOS:000721170900016	30	Article; Article		
J	Phatak, Ashwin A.; Rein, Robert; Memmert, Daniel								The Dirty League: English Premier League Provides Higher Incentives for Fouling as Compared to other European Soccer Leagues								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				80	1			263	276		10.2478/hukin-2021-0095			OCT 2021	2021	Fouling in soccer has been studied from an ethical standpoint as a measure of aggression. However, there is limited research related to fouling for performance. The present study investigated fouling as a factor influencing performance in European soccer leagues. Out of possession fouls (FPGNorm), yellow cards (YCFNorm), and their ratio (YCPFPG) were used as predictors of points (Pts) and goals conceded (GA) at the end of the season using three separate linear regression models. Furthermore, 5-fold cross-validation was used to measure out sample reliability. All the models significantly predicted GA and Pts (p < 0.001). Models predicting GA showed higher reliability than models predicting points. Cross validation (CV) results suggested that FPGNorm and YCPFPG models showed a small standard deviation (SD) in the R 2 results whereas the results from YCFNorm were not reliable to high SD in the 5-fold CV results. In summary, FPGNorm and YCPFPG seem to predict success (low GA and high Pts) across European soccer leagues, with EPL showing the maximum effect. The findings of the current study and the methodology can be applied to an actual game analysis by coaches in multiple invasion sports. Normalizing for out of possession time is a crucial step for the time spent in particular phases of play, which has not been done in previous research while analyzing 'key performance indices' (KPIs). Normalization can successfully introduce domain-specific knowledge into predictors, which can be used in complex algorithms improving predictions and investigation of underlying mechanisms.		[Phatak, Ashwin A.; Rein, Robert; Memmert, Daniel] German Sports Univ, Inst Exercise Training & Sport Informat, Cologne, Germany; [Phatak, Ashwin A.] German Sports Univ, Inst Exercise Training & Sport Informat, Cologne, Germany								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:000721170900024	29	Article; Article		
J	Nunes, Nuno Andre; Goncalves, Bruno; Fenner, Jonathan S. J.; Owen, Adam Lee; Travassos, Bruno								Exploration of the Age-Category Soccer Performance Effects During Ball Possession Small-Sided Games								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				80	1			251	262		10.2478/hukin-2021-0109			OCT 2021	2021	Small-sided games have been adopted as an integral part of soccer training, however, the use of task constraints by the coach and the action capabilities of both players and teams require further investigation. The aim of this investigation was to explore the age-category effects (under-11: U11, under-15: U15 and under-23: U23) on external training workloads (total distance covered, distance covered while walking, running and sprinting, number of sprints and maximum sprint speed), internal training load metrics (rate of perceived exertion, RPE) and tactical individual actions (passing number with dominant and non-dominant foot, and max passing speed) during 4 vs. 4 ball possession small-sided game constrained within three different playing areas (small: 20 x 15 m, medium: 25 x 20 m, and large: 30 x 25 m). Results revealed substantial differences (all p < .001) for each specific playing area observed across many of the external workload measures. For every area analysed, U23 players covered more distance walking, whereas U11 and U15 players covered more distances at higher intensities. Additionally, significant differences were found for the RPE (small playing area: p = .001; large playing area: p < .001) with U23 and U15 players showing higher scores compared with U11 ones. It can be concluded that a 4 vs. 4 ball possession small-sided game can provide different performance related stimuli to players, depending on age category and the playing surface area. Therefore, coaches and individuals involved with training and development of soccer players across all age groups should be aware of the key variables highlighted in this study before planning training drills.		[Nunes, Nuno Andre; Travassos, Bruno] Univ Beira Interior, Dept Sports Sci, P-6201001 Covilha, Portugal; [Nunes, Nuno Andre; Travassos, Bruno] CreativeLab Res Community, Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev, CIDESD, Vila Real, Portugal; [Goncalves, Bruno] Univ Evora, Dept Desporto & Saude, Escola Saude & Desenvolvimento Humano, Evora, Portugal; [Goncalves, Bruno] Univ Evora, Comprehens Hlth Res Ctr CHRC, Evora, Portugal; [Goncalves, Bruno; Travassos, Bruno] Portuguese Football Federat, Portugal Football Sch, Oeiras, Portugal; [Fenner, Jonathan S. J.] Wolverhampton Wanderers Football Club, Med & Exercise Sci Dept, Wolverhampton, England; [Owen, Adam Lee] Lyon 1 Univ Claude Bernard, Lyon, France; [Owen, Adam Lee] Seattle Sounders FC, Seattle, WA USA; [Nunes, Nuno Andre] Univ Beira Interior, Dept Sports Sci, P-6201001 Covilha, Portugal								7							Sport Sciences	WOS:000721170900023	36	Article; Article		
J	Jansen, Marleen G. T.; Elferink-Gemser, Marije T.; Hoekstra, Aldo E.; Faber, Irene R.; Huijgen, Barbara C. H.								Design of a Tennis-Specific Agility Test (TAT) for Monitoring Tennis Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				80	1			239	250		10.2478/hukin-2021-0094239			OCT 2021	2021	Agility is an important ability for tennis players. To be successful in the rallies, players must perform rapid, multidirectional movements in response to the ball and/or the position of the opponent. For a test to be representative in monitoring agility performance, it should capture a combination of the physical and cognitive agility performance. Considering that literature reports no reliable and valid sport-specific agility test for tennis, the aim of this article was to design and evaluate the measurement properties of a Tennis-specific Agility Test (TAT). To evaluate the TAT, test retest reliability, concurrent validity, and feasibility were assessed. For reproducibility, a two-way mixed ANOVA was performed. Concurrent validity was assessed using Pearson correlations. A total of 69 tennis players participated in this study of whom 16 competed at the international (22 +/- 3.7 years, playing level (Dynamic Rating System): .8 +/- .3), 43 at the national (14 +/- 1.4 years, playing level: 4.6 +/- 1.4), and 10 at the regional level (15 +/- 0.8 years, playing level: 4.9 +/- 1.1). Test-retest reliability was found to be moderate with an Intra-Class Correlation coefficient (ICC) of .74 (p < .01) and a percentual minimal detectable change (%MDC) of 6.2%. Concurrent validity was found to be moderate by comparison with a recognised agility test, the Spider Drill, which measures only the physical component (.70; p < .01), and by comparison with tennis performance for both boys (r = .67; p < .01) and girls (r = .72; p < .01). The feasibility was high with short time for preparation (five to ten minutes) and time per participant (<5 minutes). In conclusion, the TAT shows promising results for assessing sport-specific agility performance in tennis making it likely to be used in the practical setting.		[Jansen, Marleen G. T.; Elferink-Gemser, Marije T.; Huijgen, Barbara C. H.] Univ Groningen, Ctr Human Movement Sci, Groningen, Netherlands; [Hoekstra, Aldo E.] Royal Dutch Lawn Tennis Assoc, Amstelveen, Netherlands; [Faber, Irene R.] Carl von Ossietzky Univ Oldenburg, Inst Sport Sci, Oldenburg, Germany; [Faber, Irene R.] Int Table Tennis Federat, Lausanne, Switzerland; [Huijgen, Barbara C. H.] Univ Groningen, Dept Dev Psychol, Groningen, Netherlands; [Elferink-Gemser, Marije T.] Univ Groningen, Univ Med Ctr Groningen, Ctr Human Movement Sci, Dept Human Movement Sci, UMCG Sect F,Bldg 3215,Antonius Deusinglaan 1, NL-9713 AV Groningen, Netherlands								12							Sport Sciences	WOS:000721170900022	39	Article; Article		
J	Ficek, Krzysztof; Gwiazdon, Pawel; Skowronek, Radoslaw; Kedra, Natalia; Kluczniok, Kamila; Strozik, Magdalena; Hajduk, Grzegorz								Uncommon Bone Injuries in Soccer Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				80	1			125	138		10.2478/hukin-2020-0032			OCT 2021	2021	Soccer is the most common team sport in the world. A significant number of players are associated with a large number of injuries. Injuries occur in a variety of contexts regardless of the age or performance level of players. The vast majority of injuries involve soft tissues. Bone injuries are less common, but usually result in long-term exclusion from the game. Three different types of fractures related to soccer are classified as acute types, stress fractures and avulsion. This manuscript outlines the diagnostic procedures and treatments for stress fractures, avulsion fractures and bone cyst. The common feature of the described injuries includes frequent difficulties associated with the correct diagnosis and treatment direction. In therapeutic treatment, the doctor and the patient often have to choose between conservative treatment and surgical treatment, which in many cases is not simple. We suggest that in the event of injuries to soccer players, surgical treatment should be used, shortening the time to return to full sports activity. A very important element of the therapeutic process is proper rehabilitation, which should be individually tailored to the patient in order to optimize the treatment process. Some of the rehabilitation protocols should be permanently incorporated into the warm-up protocols for training. Such a procedure has a preventive effect.		[Ficek, Krzysztof; Gwiazdon, Pawel; Skowronek, Radoslaw; Kedra, Natalia; Kluczniok, Kamila; Strozik, Magdalena] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ, Dept Physiotherapy, PL-40065 Katowice, Poland; [Ficek, Krzysztof; Gwiazdon, Pawel; Strozik, Magdalena; Hajduk, Grzegorz] Galen Orthopaed, Dept Sci Innovat & Dev, PL-43150 Bierun, Poland; [Gwiazdon, Pawel] Med Univ Silesia, Fac Pharmaceut Sci Sosnowiec, Dept Biopharm, Katowice, Poland; [Skowronek, Radoslaw; Kedra, Natalia; Kluczniok, Kamila] Galen Rehabil, PL-43150 Bierun, Poland; [Ficek, Krzysztof] Galen Orthopaed, Jerzego 6, PL-43150 Bierun, Poland								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:000721170900013	48	Article; Article		
J	de la Rubia, Alfonso; Lorenzo-Calvo, Jorge; Rivilla-Garcia, Jesus; Marquina, Moises								Are the Player Selection Process and Performance Influenced by Relative Age Effect in Elite Women's Handball?								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				80	1			223	237		10.2478/hukin-2021-0105			OCT 2021	2021	The relative age effect (RAE) is a phenomenon present in team sports, but it does not influence each gender to the same extent. This study aimed to examine the RAE and its relation to performance in international women's handball competitions (2017/18 World Championships). The sample was composed of 1,096 female players distributed into three categories: youth or under 18 (n = 369); junior or under 20 (n = 328) and senior (n = 399). The teams were divided into four groups based on their final position (medalist, quarter-finalist, eight-finalist and bottom-eight teams). The birthdate distribution (trimesters and semesters) was analysed according to the competition category and the playing position. Differences between the expected and observed birthdate distribution were checked using the chisquare statistical test followed by the calculation of the odds ratio. The results revealed, by trimester, the presence of the RAE in the youth (x(2) (7) = 87.22; p < 0.001) and junior (x(2) (7) = 33.12; p < 0.001) categories, with no impact on senior (p > 0.05). The effect size was relatively strong in the youth category (Vc = 0.48). By semester, the prevalence of the RAE was also found in the senior category (p < 0.05). According to the playing position, the RAE was especially detected in 'goalkeeper' (p < 0.01) and 'centre-back' (p < 0.05) positions, both in U-18 and U-20 categories. Surprisingly, this effect also appeared in the 'back' players in the senior category (p < 0.05). A prevalence of the RAE was identified in teams with a higher final position, but interestingly had a greater impact in the quarter-finalist teams (p < 0.001) than in the medalist teams (p < 0.01). The findings demonstrated that the RAE tends to decrease as the chronological age of players increases, demonstrating a strong presence according to collective performance in international women's handball.		[de la Rubia, Alfonso; Lorenzo-Calvo, Jorge; Rivilla-Garcia, Jesus; Marquina, Moises] Univ Politecn Madrid, Fac Ciencias Actividad Fis & Deporte INEF, Dept Deportes, C Martin Fierro 7, Madrid 728040, Spain; [de la Rubia, Alfonso] Univ Politecn Madrid, Fac Phys Act & Sports Sci, Dept Sports, Martin Fierro 7, Madrid 28040, Spain								9							Sport Sciences	WOS:000721170900021	51	Article; Article		
J	Dann, Rick A.; Kelly, Vincent								Evidence-Based Strength and Conditioning Plan for Freestyle Snowboarding Athletes								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				43	5			1	11		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000619			OCT 2021	2021	Competitive snowboarding (SB) has rapidly grown in popularity since its introduction into the Olympics in 1998. This growth has seen a significant increase in trick difficulty and the associated physical demands required for success. Despite the increase in physical requirements, there are currently no evidence-based recommendations that incorporate strength and conditioning or injury prevention programs. This article draws on current research that details the physical demands of SB and integrates relevant strength and conditioning principles to create an evidence-based training plan. This plan highlights the essential physical attributes for snowboard athletes that are important for successful performance and mitigating injury risk.		[Dann, Rick A.] Univ Queensland, Sch Human Movement & Nutr Sci, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [Kelly, Vincent] Queensland Univ Technol, Sch Exercise & Nutr Sci, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [Dann, Rick A.] Univ Queensland, Sch Human Movement & Nutr Sci, Brisbane, Qld, Australia								7							Sport Sciences	WOS:000711754200001	51	Article; Article		
J	Handford, Matthew J.; Martin Rivera, Fernando; Maroto-lzquierdo, Sergio; Hughes, Jonathan D.								Plyo-Accentuated Eccentric Loading Methods to Enhance Lower Limb Muscle Power								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				43	5			54	64		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000635			OCT 2021	2021	Accentuated eccentric loading (AEL) can be combined with lower-body power-based movements to acutely enhance them; however, currently, there are limited recommendations for this training method. AEL can enhance force and power metrics during its utilization with lower-body power-based exercises. When using AEL, exercises should consist of jump squats and countermovement jumps with loading methods consisting of weight releasors or dumbbell hand release. Elastic bands can be used; however, more research is needed in this area. External loads ranging from 10-30% of body mass can be used. Future research needs to investigate increased eccentric and concentric loads when using AEL with power-based movements.		[Handford, Matthew J.; Hughes, Jonathan D.] Univ Gloucestershire, Sch Sport & Exercise, Gloucester, England; [Martin Rivera, Fernando] Univ Valencia, Res Grp Prevent & Hlth Exercise & Sport, Valencia, Spain; [Maroto-lzquierdo, Sergio] Appl Sports Sci Ctr, Proporc A, Valladolid, Spain; [Maroto-lzquierdo, Sergio] European Univ Miguel de Cervantes, Dept Hlth Sci, Valladolid, Spain; [Handford, Matthew J.] Univ Gloucestershire, Sch Sport & Exercise, Gloucester, England								9							Sport Sciences	WOS:000711754200005	51	Article; Article		
J	Frias Bocanegra, Jose M.; Fong, Daniel T. P.								Playing surface traction influences movement strategies during a sidestep cutting task in futsal: implications for ankle performance and sprain injury risk								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				21	4			380	390		10.1080/14763141.2021.1980606			APR 21 2022	2022	This descriptive laboratory crossover trial study examined the intervention of high friction synthetic vs lower friction natural sport surfaces on the ankle joint biomechanics in a sidestep cutting task. Twenty-nine male futsal players performed 5 trials of sidestep cutting task in a laboratory, recorded by an 18-camera motion capture system to obtain the ankle joint orientation, velocity and moment. Utilised friction was obtained by the peak ratio of the horizontal to vertical ground reaction force during the stance. Repeated measures (MANOVA) suggested a significant effect of the playing surface and post hoc paired t-tests revealed significantly higher utilised coefficient of friction, higher peak plantarflexion angle, lower peak eversion angle, higher peak inversion velocity, lower peak inversion moment and higher peak internal rotation moment. In performing a sidestep cutting task, futsal players demonstrated higher utilised ground friction when available friction from the playing surface was higher, resulting in higher peak inversion velocity and higher peak internal rotation moment, which may make the ankle joint more prone to sprain injury. Floorings for futsal should have an adequate coefficient of friction for agility and avoidance of the risk of slipping. Increasing the coefficient of friction may not only enhance performance but also endanger the ankle joint.		[Frias Bocanegra, Jose M.; Fong, Daniel T. P.] Loughborough Univ, Sch Sport Exercise & Hlth Sci, Natl Ctr Sport & Exercise Med, Loughborough, Leics, England; [Fong, Daniel T. P.] Loughborough Univ, Sch Sport Exercise & Hlth Sci, Natl Ctr Sport & Exercise Med, Loughborough, Leics, England								12							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000702667300001	47	Article; Article		
J	Guppy, Stuart N.; Brady, Claire J.; Kotani, Yosuke; Connolly, Shannon; Comfort, Paul; Lake, Jason P.; Haff, G. Gregory								A comparison of manual and automatic force-onset identification methodologies and their effect on force-time characteristics in the isometric midthigh pull								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	10			1726	1737		10.1080/14763141.2021.1974532			OCT 2 2024	2024	The aim of this study was to assess the agreement of three different automated methods of identifying force-onset (40 N, 5 SDs, and 3 SDs) with manual identification, during the isometric mid-thigh pull (IMTP). Fourteen resistance-trained participants with >6 months experience training with the power clean volunteered to take part. After three familiarisation sessions, the participants performed five maximal IMTPs separated by 1 min of rest. Fixed bias was found between 40 N and manual identification for time at force-onset. No proportional bias was present between manual identification and any automated threshold. Fixed bias between manual identification and automated was present for force at onset and F-150. Proportional but not fixed bias was found for F-50 between manual identification and all automated thresholds. Small to moderate differences (Hedges g = -0.487- -0.692) were found for F-90 between all automated thresholds and manual identification, while trivial to small differences (Hedges g = -0.122--0.279) were found between methods for F-200 and F-250. Based on these results, strength and conditioning practitioners should not use a 40 N, 5 SDs, or 3 SDs threshold interchangeably with manual identification of force-onset when analysing IMTP force-time curve data.		[Guppy, Stuart N.; Kotani, Yosuke; Connolly, Shannon; Comfort, Paul; Lake, Jason P.; Haff, G. Gregory] Edith Cowan Univ, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, Joondalup, Australia; [Brady, Claire J.] Sport Ireland Inst, Natl Sports Campus, Dublin, Ireland; [Connolly, Shannon] Western Australian Inst Sport, High Performance Serv Ctr, Mt Claremont, Australia; [Comfort, Paul; Haff, G. Gregory] Univ Salford, Directorate Psychol & Sport, Salford, Lancs, England; [Comfort, Paul] Leeds Beckett Univ, Carnegie Sch Sport, Inst Sport Phys Act & Leisure, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England; [Lake, Jason P.] Univ Chichester, Chichester Inst Sport, Chichester, England; [Haff, G. Gregory] Australian Weightlifting Federat, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [Guppy, Stuart N.] Edith Cowan Univ, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, Joondalup, Australia								18							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000698279500001	51	Article; Article		
J	Nicol, E.; Adani, N.; Lin, B.; Tor, E.								The temporal analysis of elite breaststroke swimming during competition								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	10			1738	1750		10.1080/14763141.2021.1975810			OCT 2 2024	2024	Breaststroke is the only competitive stroke characterised by propulsive discontinuity. It is consequently paramount that swimmers optimally coordinate limb movements in order to maintain the highest average velocity possible. The present study aimed to investigate the temporal patterns of elite breaststroke swimmers. 50 m long-course competition footage of (1) 20 male 100 m races, (2) 24 female 100 m races, (3) 15 male 200 m races, and (4) 27 female 200 m races from 2018 to 2020 were digitised and analysed. Six points within each stroke cycle were identified and used to calculate 15 temporal parameters. Analyses revealed multiple temporal pattern differences between groups based on sex and race distance. It is recommended that coaches individualise swimmers' breaststroke temporal patterns based on individual needs, strengths, and morphological characteristics.		[Nicol, E.] Queensland Acad Sport, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [Nicol, E.] Griffith Univ, Griffith Sports Sci, Gold Coast, Australia; [Adani, N.; Lin, B.; Tor, E.] Victorian Inst Sport, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Tor, E.] Victoria Univ, Inst Hlth & Sport, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Nicol, E.] Queensland Acad Sport, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [Nicol, E.] Griffith Univ, Griffith Sports Sci, Gold Coast, Australia								9							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000697641400001	12	Article; Article		
J	Kelley, Naomi; Pierpoint, Lauren; Spittler, Jack; Khodaee, Morteza								Acromioclavicular joint injuries at a Colorado ski resort								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				51	1			33	39		10.1080/00913847.2021.1980745			JAN 2 2023	2023	Background Acromioclavicular joint (ACJ) injuries are among the most common injuries in contact and non-contact sports. As winter sports become more popular, there has been an increase in shoulder injuries among recreational skiers and snowboarders. Methods This was a retrospective analysis of all patients who presented to the Denver Health Winter Park Medical Center with ACJ injury from 2012 to 2017. We examined the incidence of ACJ injuries, the injury mechanism, demographics, and type of ACJ injuries among skiers and snowboarders treated at the clinic. Results A total of 341 ACJ injuries (6.7% of total visits) were encountered during the study period. The majority of ACJ injures were type I (41.3%) and mainly occurred in men (86.5%). Most (96.8%) of the cases were primary ACJ injuries on the right shoulder (56.9%). The average age of patients with ACJ injuries was 30.0 years (range 10-72). More than half (62.2%) of ACJ injuries occurred while snowboarding. The most common mechanism of injury (93.5%) was fall to the snow while skiing/snowboarding. Women were more likely to have a type I ACJ injury than men (80.4% vs 35.4%; P < 0.001). Women with ACJ injuries were more likely to suffer the injury while skiing than snowboarding (71.7% vs 28.3%; P < 0.001), compared to men who were more likely to suffer the injury while snowboarding than skiing (67.5% vs 32.5%; P < 0.001). Conclusions Most of the ACJ injuries were type I and occurred mostly in men. Snowboarders were more likely to have an ACJ injury than skiers.		[Kelley, Naomi] Univ Colorado, Sch Med, Denver, CO 80238 USA; [Pierpoint, Lauren] Steadman Philippon Res Inst, Ctr Outcomes Based Orthoped Res, Vail, CO USA; [Spittler, Jack; Khodaee, Morteza] Univ Colorado, Dept Family Med & Orthoped, Sch Med, Denver, CO 80238 USA; [Khodaee, Morteza] Univ Colorado, 3055 Roslyn St Suite 100, Denver, CO 80238 USA								4							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000696496800001	33	Article; Article		
J	Nonnenmacher, Tomas; Gerard, David								Who Should Own the League? Transaction Costs and the Structure of NBA Ownership								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				23	1			76	94	15270025211031474	10.1177/15270025211031474			JAN 2022	2022	Like many professional sports leagues worldwide, the National Basketball Association is organized as a cooperative of team owners. We argue that league ownership structures must balance two types of transaction costs: the costs to league owners of collective decision-making and the costs of contracting with stakeholders of the league, importantly players, owners, and potential investors. We compare the transaction costs of the current team owned league with the alternatives of investor and player owned leagues, finding that each ownership structure reduces some transaction costs while raising others.		[Nonnenmacher, Tomas] Allegheny Coll, Dept Econ & Business, 520 North Main St, Meadville, PA 16335 USA; [Gerard, David] Lawrence Univ, Dept Econ, Appleton, WI 54912 USA; [Nonnenmacher, Tomas] Allegheny Coll, Dept Econ & Business, 520 North Main St, Meadville, PA 16335 USA								1							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000695267000001	38	Article; Article		
J	Bailey, Evan P.; Goodloe, J. Brett; McNeely, Rachel A.; Traven, Sophia A.; Woolf, Shane K.; Slone, Harris S.								COVID-19 modifications of offseason and preseason training for NFL athletes are associated with increased risk of regular season injuries								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				50	6			541	545		10.1080/00913847.2021.1976602			NOV 2 2022	2022	Objectives COVID-19 altered National Football League (NFL) player and team training during the 2020 offseason. All preseason games were cancelled resulting in absence of game play before the first week of the regular season. Thus, concerns exist regarding injury susceptibility of players during regular season games. The purpose of this study was to evaluate and compare injury rates during the 2020 NFL season versus injury rates from the unaffected 2017-2019 seasons. We hypothesized there would be an increased injury rate and an increased rate of season ending injuries during the modified 2020 season. Methods The NFL's public injury database was queried to identify players placed on the injury lists throughout the 2017-2020 seasons. All players listed as "out" and on the injured reserve due to physical injury were included in the data set. For further stratification, injury incidence was separated based on position. Time missed due to COVID-19 illness was not included. Injury rates were expressed as injuries per 1000 athlete exposures (AE). Results Overall, 893 individual players missed games due to injury during the 2020 NFL regular season compared to an average of 743 over the 2017-2019 seasons. Defensive players at all positions had a statistically significant increase in injury incidence from an average of 7.54 to 10.20 injuries per 1000 AE. Defensive backs were most affected with a 46% increase in players injured. There was no statistically significant difference in season ending injuries for any position. Conclusions The COVID-19 stricken 2020 NFL regular season saw an increased rate and incidence of injuries. Specifically, defensive players had a higher incidence of injury overall with defensive backs experiencing the greatest increase in injury rates.		[Bailey, Evan P.; Goodloe, J. Brett; McNeely, Rachel A.; Traven, Sophia A.; Woolf, Shane K.; Slone, Harris S.] Med Univ South Carolina, Dept Orthopaed & Phys Med, 96 Jonathan Lucas Dr CSB 708, Charleston, SC 29425 USA; [Bailey, Evan P.] Med Univ South Carolina, Dept Orthopaed & Phys Med, 96 Jonathan Lucas Dr CSB 708, Charleston, SC 29425 USA								18							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000695728200001	18	Article; Article		
J	Zago, Matteo; Lovecchio, Nicola; Galli, Manuela								Players at home: Physical activity and quality of life in 12-17 years-old football (soccer) players during the Covid-19 lockdown								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	3			626	636		10.1177/17479541211041703			JUN 2022	2022	Background: Aggressive preventive actions were required to face the Covid-19 outbreak. However, from March 2020 on, many healthy youth football players have seen their sporting activities disrupted by the restrictions on outdoor exercise. This study describes physical activity and quality of life during April 2020 lockdown of young people participating in organized football. Methods: 1163 young football players aged 12-17 years (185 girls) completed a web-based questionnaire including the Youth Physical Activity and the Youth Quality of Life-Short Form Questionnaires; information on lifestyle and football-specific activity were also collected. Differences according to sex, urban/rural context and elite/non-elite club level were tested using a 2 x 2 x 2 MANOVA (age considered as a covariate). Results: We found that: (i) on average, exposure to football accounted for 3.2 hours/week, was higher in elite clubs and changed in nature, being mainly performed individually; 19% of participants practiced football <1 hour/week; (ii) only 56% of the participants reported 7 or more hours/week of moderate-to-vigorous physical activity, which decreased with age and changed according to the geographical context; (iii) perceived quality of life was lower in youth playing for non-elite clubs and in older girls; (iv) coaches, rather that official initiatives, were the primary source of football exercises practiced at home. Conclusion: A status of limited physical activity emerged; this might lead to deconditioning and susceptibility to injuries when football could restart. Governing bodies, football Associations and clubs could exploit these results to take informed decisions and support evidence-based interventions during and after the Covid-19 pandemic.		[Zago, Matteo] Politecn Milan, Dipartimento Meccan, Milan, Italy; [Zago, Matteo; Galli, Manuela] Politecn Milan, E4Sport Lab, Lecce, Italy; [Lovecchio, Nicola] Univ Bergamo, Dipartimento Sci Umane & Sociali, Lombardia, Italy; [Galli, Manuela] Politecn Milan, Dipartimento Elettron Informaz & Bioingn, Milan, Italy; [Zago, Matteo] Dipartimento Meccan, Via La Masa 1, I-20156 Milan, Italy								8							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000694819900001	38	Article; Article		
J	Sasaki, Shogo; Nagano, Yasuharu; Suganuma, Yusaku; Koyama, Takeshi; Ichikawa, Hiroshi								Acceleration profile of high-impact movements during young football games: a cross-sectional study involving healthy children								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	11			1933	1947		10.1080/14763141.2021.1970796			NOV 1 2024	2024	Repetitive high-impact movements cause growth-related injuries in children. This study aimed to identify which movements during junior football games require >6 G and >8 G acceleration and the frequency at which they occur. Additionally, we compared the components of acceleration among movements with >8 G resultant acceleration. Eleven young male footballers (10.7 +/- 0.4 years) played 8-a-side games while wearing a tri-axial accelerometer on their upper back. The number and frequency of the movements that generated >6 G and >8 G were calculated, and each directive acceleration of the top five items was compared using two-way ANOVA to examine the effect of movements. The frequency of movements that generated >6 G and >8 G acceleration during junior football games was 8.70 case/min and 2.62 case/min, respectively. The top five >8 G movements were braking and pre-braking in shuffle, slowdown, stop, and run/jog items. The vertical acceleration was significantly greater during braking in shuffle than during slowdown, stop, and run/jog and also greater during stop and pre-braking in shuffle than during run/jog movement. This pilot study suggests that decelerated movements mainly provoked high-impact situations and may be key actions for preventing overuse injury in young footballers.		[Sasaki, Shogo] Tokyo Ariake Univ Med & Hlth Sci, Fac Hlth Sci, Tokyo, Japan; [Nagano, Yasuharu] Japan Womens Coll Phys Educ, Dept Sports & Hlth Sci, Tokyo, Japan; [Suganuma, Yusaku] Tokyo Ariake Univ Med & Hlth Sci, Grad Sch Hlth Sci, Tokyo, Japan; [Koyama, Takeshi] Tokai Univ, Sports Med Sci Res Inst, Tokyo, Japan; [Ichikawa, Hiroshi] Niigata Univ Hlth & Welf, Dept Hlth & Sports, Niigata, Japan; [Sasaki, Shogo] Tokyo Ariake Univ Med & Hlth Sci, Fac Hlth Sci, Tokyo, Japan								5							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000693700900001	43	Article; Article		
J	Mumcu, Ceyda; Lough, Nancy								Pro softball fan segments: a two-step cluster analysis								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				23	3			485	504		10.1108/IJSMS-03-2021-0058			JUN 28 2022	2022	Purpose Niche sports such as women's professional sport leagues face many challenges to developing and expanding their fan base. Understanding sport fans, segmenting consumer bases and targeting them effectively can assist in both developing the fan base and competing for investments like sponsorships and media rights. The purpose of this study was to explore consumer segments of the National Pro Fastpitch (NPF), a niche softball league, by identifying demographic and psychographic characteristics of the segments and developing a persona for each segment. Design/methodology/approach Data were collected from 3,463 NPF consumers with the assistance of NPF league officials using their social media outlets. A two-step cluster analysis was performed employing both categorical and continuous variables to inform the segmentation, which was followed with chi-squared statistics and two MANOVAs to compare the segments' demographic characteristics, points of attachment (POAs) levels and attendance and viewership of NPF games. Findings Three distinct consumer segments with unique demographic, POA and softball participation characteristics were identified. Differences among these segments' consumption of NPF games validated the existence of three distinct consumer segments. Originality/value This research is the first to examine consumer behavior in women's softball, and it expands the sport marketing literature through the identification of consumer segments of a niche sport league with a novel cluster analysis. Blending theory and practice by incorporating both demographic and psychographic variables into market segmentation, the research uniquely serves this niche sport and thereby informs improved marketing practice.		[Mumcu, Ceyda] Univ New Haven, Sport Management, West Haven, CT 06516 USA; [Lough, Nancy] Univ Nevada, Educ Psychol & Higher Educ, Las Vegas, NV 89154 USA; [Mumcu, Ceyda] Univ New Haven, Sport Management, West Haven, CT 06516 USA								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000692138000001	80	Article; Article		
J	Robinson, Nicola J.; McQuilliam, Stephen J.; Donovan, Timothy F.; Langan-Evans, Carl; Whitehead, Amy								The current landscape of youth multi-sport training: athlete and parent insight data								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	3			532	544	17479541211041827	10.1177/17479541211041827			JUN 2022	2022	The intent to improve a youth athlete's ability is developed through structured focused training in the competencies within their sport. To date there is little evidence around how multi-discipline youth athletes organise their training load (TL) outlook in a multitude of sports. The aim of this study was to analyse the daily TL, distribution and wellness in aspiring 10-15yr old pentathletes (n = 31) over 152 +/- 35 days. Athletes completed daily reports documenting sport mode, session duration, session rate of perceived exertion (sRPE) and wellness (sleep, stress, mood, fatigue, muscle soreness). Parental understanding of training periodisation was used to contextualise the athletes training patterns (n = 15) through semi-structured interviews. Weekly training duration was 5 h 59 min +/- 3 h 38 min. The swimming discipline dominates the overall time spent training (50.5%). Pentathlon specific TL was significantly higher in the 14-15 yrs (3000 +/- 1207 AUT) in comparison to 10-11 yrs (1837 +/- 874 AUT). Weekly micro TL fluctuations showed significant peaks on the weekend compared to Tuesday and Friday (p < 0.05). Wellness scores were significantly worse on Monday to Wednesdays (p < 0.05), compared to Fridays. Parent interviews suggest a multitude of coach input from solo disciplines over a typical week, with little inter-coach discussions. In conclusion there is little structure on a micro or macro level in youth pentathletes training showing multiple-coach input with little coach crossover. Implications for the training/competition is based around convenience/holidays/availability of resources rather than overall individual development, which suggests the potential need for an early specialisation approach to support athletes within this style of multi-discipline sport.		[Robinson, Nicola J.; McQuilliam, Stephen J.; Donovan, Timothy F.; Langan-Evans, Carl; Whitehead, Amy] Liverpool John Moores Univ, Sch Sport & Exercise Sci, Tom Reilly Bldg,Byrom St, Liverpool L3 3AF, Merseyside, England; [Robinson, Nicola J.] Liverpool John Moores Univ, Sch Sport & Exercise Sci, Tom Reilly Bldg,Byrom St, Liverpool L3 3AF, Merseyside, England								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000692214800001	68	Article; Article		
J	Roman, Dylan P.; Ness, Brandon M.; Giampetruzzi, Nicholas; Cleland, Joshua A.; Weaver, Adam								Knee strength outcomes in adolescents by age and sex during late-stage rehabilitation after anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				51				102	109		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.07.004			SEP 2021	2021	Objective: To determine if knee strength differences exist according to age group and sex among adolescents during late-stage anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction (ACLR) rehabilitation. Design: Retrospective cohort study. Methods: Consecutive patients who had undergone ACLR with a hamstring autograft completed isokinetic knee strength assessment. Patients were categorized into early (ages 11-14 years) and middle (ages 15-17 years) adolescence. A two-way MANOVA was used to examine strength differences according to age group and sex. Results: 144 patients were included in the analysis (56.9% females, age = 15.3 +/- 1.5 years; days since surgery = 228.2 +/- 41.2). Differences in quadriceps peak torque were identified between age groups on the involved (p = 0.001) and uninvolved limbs (p < 0.001), however, no differences in quadriceps peak torque were found between age groups when normalized to body mass (p = 0.16-0.49). Differences between groups according to sex were identified for each strength outcome (p < 0.01), with decreased normalized quadriceps (12-13%) and hamstring (13-16%) peak torque for females. No interactions between age group and sex were noted, F(8, 133) = 1.48, p = 0.17. Conclusion: Early adolescents produced less quadriceps and hamstring peak torque compared to middle adolescents after ACLR. No differences were found between age groups when normalized to body mass. (c) 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Roman, Dylan P.; Giampetruzzi, Nicholas; Weaver, Adam] Connecticut Childrens, Sports Phys Therapy, 399 Farmington Ave, Farmington, CT 06032 USA; [Ness, Brandon M.; Cleland, Joshua A.] Tufts Univ, Sch Med, Phys Therapy Program, Boston, MA 02111 USA; [Roman, Dylan P.] Connecticut Childrens, Sports Phys Therapy, 399 Farmington Ave, Farmington, CT 06032 USA								14							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000692792500015	56	Article; Article		
J	Buttner, Fionn; Howell, David R.; Doherty, Cailbhe; Blake, Catherine; Ryan, John; Delahunt, Eamonn								Condition-specific health-related quality of life amongst amateur athletes six months and one-year following sport-related concussion: A prospective, follow-up								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				51				71	78		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.06.011			SEP 2021	2021	Objective: To prospectively investigate the condition-specific health-related quality of life (HRQoL) of athletes six months and one-year following sport-related concussion. Design: Prospective, longitudinal study. Setting: Clinical research centre at university school of public health. Participants: Amateur athletes who were diagnosed with sport-related concussion within one-week after presenting to a hospital emergency department were recruited along with sex-, age-, and activity-matched, non-concussed, control athletes. Concussion and control participants were assessed six months and one-year following sport-related concussion and study enrolment, respectively. Main outcome measures: Participants completed the Post-Concussion Symptom Scale and five condition specific HRQoL patient-reported outcome measures Headache Impact Test-6, Fatigue Severity Scale, Neck Disability Index, Generalised Anxiety Disorder-7, and Dizziness Handicap Inventory. We performed Frequentist and Bayesian mixed-design analyses of variance to compare the concussion group and control group at both assessments and quantify whether there was greater evidence in favour of the null hypothesis compared with the alternative hypothesis. Results: At six-month and one-year assessments, the concussion group (n = 47; male = 72%; mean (SD) age = 22.68 (5.07)) and the control group (n = 47; male = 72%; mean (SD) age = 23.81 (4.60)) reported similar clinical symptom severity scores and condition-specific HRQoL. The proportion of athletes in the concussion group with clinically-impaired scores was similar to the proportion of non-concussed athletes with clinically-impaired scores. At six-month and one-year assessments, there was moderate-to very strong evidence that there was no difference between concussion and control participants' perceptions of the effects of headache, fatigue, neck pain, anxiety, and dizziness on HRQoL. Conclusion: There was moderate-to-very strong evidence in favour of no difference between the concussion and control groups on symptom severity scores and condition-specific HRQoL patient reported outcome measures at six-month and one-year assessments. These results suggest that condition-specific HRQoL returns to the levels of non-concussed individuals within six months following sport-related concussion. (c) 2021 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).		[Buttner, Fionn; Doherty, Cailbhe; Blake, Catherine; Delahunt, Eamonn] Univ Coll Dublin, Sch Publ Hlth Physiotherapy & Sports Sci, Dublin, Ireland; [Howell, David R.] Childrens Hosp Colorado, Ctr Sports Med, Aurora, CO USA; [Howell, David R.] Univ Colorado, Sch Med, Dept Orthoped, Aurora, CO USA; [Ryan, John] St Vincents Univ Hosp, Emergency Dept, Elm Pk, Dublin 4, Ireland; [Doherty, Cailbhe; Delahunt, Eamonn] Univ Coll Dublin, Inst Sport & Hlth, Dublin, Ireland; Micheli Ctr Sports Injury Prevent, Waltham, MA USA; [Buttner, Fionn] Univ Coll Dublin, Sch Publ Hlth Physiotherapy & Sports Sci, Dublin, Ireland								4							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000692792500011	50	Article; Article		
J	Kimura, Noriko; Maeshima, Etsuko; Tomokane, Sayaka; Ikeshima, Akiko; Maeda, Megumi; Takimoto, Masaki; Mishima, Takaaki								A Study of Changes of Physical Functions According to Changes in Cognitive Functions in Community-Dwelling Elderly People Who Participated in an Exercise Program								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				20	3			474	481		10.52082/jssm.2021.474			SEP 2021	2021	Although it is known that physical function differs depending on the state of cognitive function, there are no studies that consider changes in cognitive functions when evaluating physical functions of participants before and after an exercise program. In this study, it was observed changes in cognitive function and physical functions of elderly people who participated in a community-based exercise program for 6 months, and examined changes in physical functions that took into account changes in cognitive functions. Forty-nine participants, whose cognitive and physical functions were both measured before and after the exercise program, were included in the analysis. The Japanese version of the Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA-J) was used to assess participants' cognitive function and to determine whether they had mild cognitive impairment (MCI). To assess physical functions, a battery of physical tests was completed. Participants were classified into four groups (before/after; non-MCI/non-MCI, MCI/MCI, non-MCI/MCI, and MCI/non-MCI) according to the changes in cognitive functions after six months. There was no significant difference in the physical functions of the four groups before the start of the program. When changes in physical functions were examined in each group, some changes in physical functions were observed in the groups other than the non-MCI/MCI group. However, there was no significant difference in the physical functions between the four groups after the program. It was suggested that changes in physical functions of elderly people who participated in a community-based exercise program over a 6-month period were not different due to changes in cognitive functions.		[Kimura, Noriko; Maeshima, Etsuko; Tomokane, Sayaka; Ikeshima, Akiko; Mishima, Takaaki] Osaka Univ Hlth & Sport Sci, Dept Hlth & Sport Management, Sennan, Osaka, Japan; [Maeda, Megumi] Kishigawa Rehabil Hosp, Kinokawa, Japan; [Takimoto, Masaki] Kyoto Univ Adv & Sci, Fac Hlth & Med Sci, Dept Hlth & Sport Sci, Kyoto, Japan; [Kimura, Noriko] Osaka Univ Hlth & Sport Sci, Dept Hlth & Sport Management, Sennan, Osaka, Japan								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:000669543700011	23	Article; Article		
J	Stien, Nicolay; Pedersen, Helene; Vereide, Vegard A.; Saeterbakken, Atle H.; Hermans, Espen; Kalland, Jarle; Schoenfeld, Brad J.; Andersen, Vidar								Effects of Two vs. Four Weekly Campus Board Training Sessions on Bouldering Performance and Climbing-Specific Tests in Advanced and Elite Climbers								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				20	3			438	447		10.52082/jssm.2021.438			SEP 2021	2021	This study examined the effects of two or four weekly campus board training sessions among highly accomplished lead climbers. Sixteen advanced-to-elite climbers were randomly allocated to two (TG2), or four weekly campus board training sessions (TG4), or a control group (CG). All groups continued their normal climbing routines. Pre- and post-intervention measures included bouldering performance, maximal isometric pull-up strength using a shallow rung and a large hold (jug), and maximal reach and moves to failure. Rate of force development (RFD; absolute and 100ms) was calculated in the rung condition. TG4 improved maximal force in the jug condition (effect size (ES) = 0.40, p = 0.043), and absolute RFD more than CG (ES = 2.92, p = 0.025), whereas TG2 improved bouldering performance (ES = 2.59, p = 0.016) and maximal moves to failure on the campus board more than CG (ES = 1.65, p = 0.008). No differences between the training groups were found (p = 0.107-1.000). When merging the training groups, the training improved strength in the rung condition (ES = 0.87, p = 0.002), bouldering performance (ES = 2.37, p = 0.006), maximal reach (ES = 1.66, p = 0.006) and moves to failure (ES = 1.43, p = 0.040) more than CG. In conclusion, a five-week campus board training-block is sufficient for improving climbing-specific attributes among advanced-to-elite climbers. Sessions should be divided over four days to improve RFD or divided over two days to improve bouldering performance, compared to regular climbing training.		[Stien, Nicolay; Pedersen, Helene; Vereide, Vegard A.; Saeterbakken, Atle H.; Hermans, Espen; Kalland, Jarle; Andersen, Vidar] Western Norway Univ Appl Sci, Dept Sport Food & Nat Sci, Sogndal, Norway; [Schoenfeld, Brad J.] Lehman Coll, Dept Hlth Sci, Bronx, NY USA; [Stien, Nicolay] Western Norway Univ Appl Sci, Dept Sport Food & Nat Sci, Sogndal, Norway								15							Sport Sciences	WOS:000669543700007	39	Article; Article		
J	Ishige, Yusuke; Yoshioka, Shinsuke; Hakamada, Noriko; Inaba, Yuki								Muscle Activity and Morphology in Slalom Skiing by a Single-Leg Amputee Ski Racer: A Case Study of a Paralympic Athlete								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				20	3			500	507		10.52082/jssm.2021.500			SEP 2021	2021	The aim of this study was to clarify the characteristics of skiing by a single-leg amputee ski racer from the viewpoints of muscle activity, morphology, and the relationship between both elements through comparisons with those of a non-disabled ski racer. One elite athlete, classified as LW2 (left thigh amputation), and one non-disabled athlete, as a control, participated in this study. The cross-sectional area of thigh muscles was measured through magnetic resonance imaging. Additionally, muscle activities and joint and segment kinematics during slalom skiing were measured using electromyography and inertial measurement units, respectively. The muscle activities and joint kinematics of the amputee racer in the turn in which he performed with the inside edge of the ski were similar to those of the outside leg of the non-disabled racer over a turn. In contrast, at the turn in which the amputee racer performed with the outside edge (more difficult side), the amputee racer largely activated the biceps femoris (BF) in the first half of the turn compared to the non-disabled racer. The reason could be to control the angular momentum of the trunk during the forward tilting motion. This is because a greater activity of the BF was observed during the period in which the forward tilt of the trunk was increased, and the mean activity of the BF was the greatest during the first half of the right turn in which the range of the motion of the forward tilt was the greatest. In terms of muscle morphology of the amputee racer, a significant hypertrophy of the BF and vastus lateralis was observed compared to the nondisabled racers. The well-developed BF was considered to be related to the large activity during the turn performed with the outside edge of the ski.		[Ishige, Yusuke; Hakamada, Noriko; Inaba, Yuki] Japan High Performance Sport Ctr, Japan Inst Sports Sci, Dept Sport Sci, Kita Ku, Tokyo, Japan; [Yoshioka, Shinsuke] Univ Tokyo, Dept Life Sci, Meguro Ku, Tokyo, Japan; [Ishige, Yusuke] Japan High Performance Sport Ctr, Japan Inst Sports Sci, Dept Sport Sci, Kita Ku, Tokyo, Japan								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:000669543700014	12	Article; Article		
J	Kidokoro, Tetsuhiro; Edamoto, Kanako								Improvements in Physical Fitness are Associated with Favorable Changes in Blood Lipid Concentrations in Children								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				20	3			404	412		10.52082/jssm.2021.404			SEP 2021	2021	Although accumulating evidence suggests the benefits of cardiorespiratory fitness and muscular fitness, little knowledge exists on how other physical fitness (PF) components are associated with cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk markers in children. Additionally, much of the relevant evidence is from longitudinal studies with CVD risk markers at a single time point (i.e., baseline) rather than changes in PF. The purpose of the present study was to examine whether initial 1-year changes in different performance measures of PF (i.e., endurance performance, muscular strength/endurance, flexibility, agility, and speed) can predict the subsequent changes (2-year change) in blood lipid concentrations in children. This 2-year longitudinal study included a total of 251 Japanese children (mean age 9.2 +/- 0.4). PF tests were performed to comprehensively evaluate the participant's fitness levels (handgrip strength [upper body muscular strength], bent-leg situps [muscular endurance], sit-and-reach [flexibility], side-step [agility], 20-meter shuttle run [endurance performance], 50-meter sprint [speed], standing long jump [lower body muscular strength], and softball throw [explosive arm strength and throwing ability]). Fasting lipid profile was assayed for triglyceride (TG), high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C), low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C), and non-HDL-C concentration. Multilevel linear regressions were used to examine the associations between the preceding changes (over 1-year) in PF and subsequent changes (over 2-years) in blood lipid concentrations. We also examined the simultaneous associations between 2-year changes in PF and 2-year changes in blood lipid concentrations. For boys, preceding improvement in handgrip strength was negatively associated with TG concentration (beta = -0.260, p = 0.030); improvements in bent-leg sit-ups were negatively associated with clustered lipid scores (beta = -0.301, p = 0.038) and non-HDL-C (beta = -0.310, p = 0.044); and improvements in 50m sprinting were associated with subsequent changes in non-HDL-C (beta = 0.348, p = 0.006) and LDL-C (beta = 0.408, p = 0.001). For girls, improvements in handgrip strength was negatively associated with TG concentration (beta = -0.306, p = 0.017); and improvements in standing long jump were negatively associated with non-HDL-C (beta = -0.269, p = 0.021) and LDL-C (beta = -0.275, p = 0.019). For boys and girls, there were no significant simultaneous associations between 2-year changes in PF and 2-year changes in blood lipid concentrations. In conclusion, preceding change in physical fitness in relation to change in blood lipid concentration likely reflect a physiological adaptation to growth and maturation since these associations diminished in the subsequent year.		[Kidokoro, Tetsuhiro] Meiji Yasuda Life Fdn Hlth & Welf, Phys Fitness Res Inst, Tokyo, Japan; [Kidokoro, Tetsuhiro] Nippon Sport Sci Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Tokyo, Japan; [Edamoto, Kanako] Kanazawa Gakuin Univ, Fac Letters, Dept Educ, Kanazawa, Ishikawa, Japan; [Kidokoro, Tetsuhiro] Meiji Yasuda Life Fdn Hlth & Welf, Phys Fitness Res Inst, Tokyo, Japan; [Kidokoro, Tetsuhiro] Nippon Sport Sci Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Tokyo, Japan								9							Sport Sciences	WOS:000669543700003	35	Article; Article		
J	Ericksen, Hayley M.; Reckelberg, Renee; Earl-Boehm, Jennifer								The injury risk profile of an Army Reserve Officers' Training Corps population: A preliminary descriptive study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				51				65	70		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.07.001			SEP 2021	2021	Objectives: Army Reserve Officers' Training Corps (ROTC) prepares cadets for military service where lower extremity injuries can occur. The Landing Error Scoring System (LESS), Functional Movement Screen (FMS) and Y-Balance (YBAL) have not been used to evaluate injury risk in the ROTC. Higher physical fitness lowers injury risk in basic training recruits, it is unknown if previous high school sport participation affects injury risk in the ROTC. The purpose of this study was to evaluation the LESS, FMS, YBAL and high school sport participation in the ROTC. Design: Descriptive study. Setting: University. Participants: 78 ROTC (49 males, 29 females; 19.7 +/- 2.3yrs; 1.71 +/- 10.1 m; 62.5 +/- 21.2 kg). Main outcome measures: LESS, FMS, YBAL and sports participation were collected and scores were calculated. Means, standard deviation and range were reported for each test. Distribution of scores within injury risk categories were evaluated. Sport participation frequency was reported. Results: The mean LESS and FMS scores were 7.1 +/- 2.1 and 14.6 +/- 2.1, respectively. The average YBAL composite score was 90.2% +/- 12.0. 68% were poor on the LESS. 46.1% were high risk on the FMS. 69.2% were high risk on the YBAL composite. Seventy-seven percent reported at least one year of participation in high school sports. Conclusions: ROTC population demonstrated poor jump landing mechanics and were high risk on the YBAL composite. (c) 2021 Published by Elsevier Ltd.		[Ericksen, Hayley M.; Reckelberg, Renee; Earl-Boehm, Jennifer] Univ Wisconsin, 3409 N Downer Ave, Milwaukee, WI 53011 USA; [Ericksen, Hayley M.] Univ Wisconsin, 3409 N Downer Ave, Milwaukee, WI 53011 USA								2							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000692792500010	27	Article; Article		
J	Remmel, Liina; Tillmann, Vallo; Tamm, Anna-Liisa; Mengel, Eva; Jurimae, Jaak								A Longitudinal Study of Bone Mineral Accrual during Growth in Competitive Premenarcheal Rhythmic Gymnasts								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				20	3			466	473		10.52082/jssm.2021.466			SEP 2021	2021	The purpose of this investigation was to study whether prolonged competitive rhythmic gymnastics training influenced bone mineral accrual in premenarcheal girls. Eighty-nine girls (45 rhythmic gymnasts [RG] and 44 untrained controls [UC]) between 7 and 9 years of age were recruited and measured annually for four years (not all participants were measured at every occasion). Dual energy x-ray absorptiometry was used to assess the development of whole body (WB), femoral neck (FN) and lumbar spine (LS) bone mineral content (BMC). In addition, body composition, blood adipokine and jumping performance characteristics were obtained. For longitudinal analyses, hierarchical mixed-effects models were constructed to predict differences in the development of WB, FN and LS BMC between RG and UC groups, while accounting for differences in body composition, blood adipokine and jumping performance values. It appeared that from 8 years of age, RG had lower (p < 0.05) fat mass and leptin values, and higher (p < 0.05) jumping performance measures in comparison with UC girls. Hierarchical mixed-effects models demonstrated that RG had 71.9 +/- 12.0, 0.23 +/- 0.11 and 1.39 +/- 0.42 g more (p < 0.05) WB, FN and LS BMC, respectively, in comparison with UC girls. In addition, WB, FN and LS BMC increased more (p < 0.05) between 7 to 12 years of age in RG girls in comparison with UC. In conclusion, these findings suggest that the prolonged exposure to competitive rhythmic gymnastics trainings in premenarcheal girls is associated with greater bone mineral accrual despite lower body fat mass and leptin values.		[Remmel, Liina; Jurimae, Jaak] Univ Tartu, Fac Med, Inst Sport Sci & Physiotherapy, 18 Ulikooli St, EE-50090 Tartu, Estonia; [Tillmann, Vallo; Mengel, Eva] Univ Tartu, Fac Med, Inst Clin Med, Tartu, Estonia; [Tamm, Anna-Liisa; Mengel, Eva] Tartu Hlth Care Coll, Tartu, Estonia; [Jurimae, Jaak] Univ Tartu, Fac Med, Inst Sport Sci & Physiotherapy, 18 Ulikooli St, EE-50090 Tartu, Estonia								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:000669543700010	37	Article; Article		
J	Choi, Siu Ming; Sum, Kim Wai Raymond; Leung, Fung Lin Elean; Ha, Sau Ching Amy; Sit, Cindy; Yeung, Ka Ho								Predictors of Physical Activity Levels in University Physical Education Implementing Sport Education								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				20	3			516	524		10.52082/jssm.2021.516			SEP 2021	2021	By adopting Sport Education into the university context, this study examined how lesson content and teacher interaction contribute to university students' physical activity levels during physical education lessons. Following a continuing professional development workshop, a 10-week Sport Education season was designed collaboratively and implemented at a university, taking into account the university's facilities. This study used the momentary time sampling tool, System for Observing Fitness Instruction Time, in which eight teachers and 202 students (72% male) were videotaped in 156 lessons. The data on physical activity levels, lesson content, and teacher behavior were collected and analyzed. The student-participants engaged in an average of 38.77 (+/- 18.78) moderate-to-vigorous physical activity (MVPA) minutes which did not meet the recommendation of 50% lesson time. Findings of hierarchical linear regression indicated that knowledge (beta = 0.29) and general content (beta = 0.29) contributed to the sitting physical activity while skill practices (beta = 0.25) and gameplay (beta = 0.38) predicted the MVPA. Practical implications of utilizing the features of Sport Education in boosting the intensity of activities are discussed, especially team affiliation, formal competition, and record keeping. Further investigations are proposed on the interaction of gameplay content and teacher behavior with larger sample size.		[Choi, Siu Ming; Sum, Kim Wai Raymond; Ha, Sau Ching Amy; Sit, Cindy; Yeung, Ka Ho] Chinese Univ Hong Kong, Dept Sports Sci & Phys Educ, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [Leung, Fung Lin Elean] Chinese Univ Hong Kong, Phys Educ Unit, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [Sum, Kim Wai Raymond] Chinese Univ Hong Kong, Dept Sports Sci & Phys Educ, Hong Kong, Peoples R China								15							Sport Sciences	WOS:000669543700016	50	Article; Article		
J	Lee, Inje; Lee, Sae Yong; Ha, Sunghe								Alterations of lower extremity function, health-related quality of life, and spatiotemporal gait parameters among individuals with chronic ankle instability								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				51				22	28		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.06.006			SEP 2021	2021	Objective: To identify differences in patient-reported outcome questionnaires and spatiotemporal gait parameters during walking between individuals with and without chronic ankle instability (CAI) and to identify relationships between patient-oriented outcome and spatiotemporal gait parameters. Participants: Twenty-four individuals with CAI and 24 controls were included in this study. Main outcome measures: All participants completed the Foot and Ankle Ability Measure including the Activities of Daily Living and Sport Subscales, the Western Ontario and McMasters Universities Osteo-arthritis Index (WOMAC), the Lower Extremity Functional Scale, and the Korean version of the EuroQol 5 -Dimension (KEQ-5D). Participants walked in a laboratory setting to collect spatiotemporal gait parameter data. Results: All questionnaire scores from the male CAI group were lower than those from the control group. The female group yielded lower questionnaire scores than the controls, with an exception for KEQ-5D. The differences between the female CAI and female control groups in temporal gait parameters were significant. Correlations were observed between the WOMAC scores of the male participants and spatiotemporal gait parameters. In females, there were correlations between the patient-reported out-comes and spatiotemporal gait parameters. Conclusions: CAI patients need treatment not only for ankle function but also lower extremity function and gait performance. (c) 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Lee, Inje; Lee, Sae Yong] Yonsei Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Seoul, South Korea; [Lee, Inje; Lee, Sae Yong; Ha, Sunghe] Int Olymp Comm Res Ctr KOREA, Seoul, South Korea; [Lee, Sae Yong] Yonsei Univ, Inst Convergence Sci, Seoul, South Korea; [Ha, Sunghe] Natl Rehabil Ctr, Dept Clin Res Rehabil, 58 Samgaksan Ro, Seoul 01022, South Korea; [Ha, Sunghe] Natl Rehabil Ctr, Dept Clin Res Rehabil, 58 Samgaksan Ro, Seoul 01022, South Korea								11							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000692792500004	35	Article; Article		
J	Nagano, Yasuharu; Oyama, Takashi								Association of sports sampling and training frequency with injury among school-age athletes in Japan								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				51	1			20	26		10.1080/00913847.2021.1973337			JAN 2 2023	2023	Background This study evaluated the status of sports participation and training frequency during school years to identify related factors for injuries in the general Japanese population. Methods A total of 1,533 adult participants (762 males, 771 females) retrospectively completed a questionnaire assessing sports participation (single/multisport), training frequency (weekly days of sports participation), and injury history (acute and overuse) at each stage of school (elementary, junior high, and high school). Results In total, 41.1% of participants reported playing multiple sports in elementary school; this rate decreased to 17.4% in junior high school and 8.9% in high school. Weekly days of sports participation were associated with almost all injuries at each age. Participants who still played multiple sports in junior high school had fewer overuse injuries in junior high school and high school (P = 0.017; odds ratio (OR) = 0.69; 95% confidence interval (CI) = 0.51-0.94; P = 0.006, OR = 0.66, 95% CI, 0.49-0.89, respectively). The ratio for sports sampling differed between elementary school and older ages. This trend was associated with the prevalence of overuse injuries. Conclusion Promoting sports sampling through junior high school ages and controlling the training frequency may decrease the occurrence of injuries in young athletes.		[Nagano, Yasuharu] Japan Womens Coll Phys Educ, Dept Sports & Hlth Sci, Tokyo, Japan; [Oyama, Takashi] Teikyo Univ, Fac Econ, Tokyo, Japan; [Nagano, Yasuharu] Japan Womens Coll Phys Educ, Dept Sports Wellness Sci, Setagaya Ku, 8-19-1 Kitakarasuyama, Tokyo 1578565, Japan; [Nagano, Yasuharu] Japan Womens Coll Phys Educ, Setagaya Ku, 8-19-1 Kitakarasuyama, Tokyo 1578565, Japan								12							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000691192300001	25	Article; Article		
J	Lee, Donghoon; Lencer, Adam J.; Gibbs, Brian S.; Paul, Ryan W.; Tjoumakaris, Fotios P.								Disruptions in standard care: anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction outcomes during the SARS-COV2 pandemic								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				50	6			515	521		10.1080/00913847.2021.1971494			NOV 2 2022	2022	Objective The SARS-COV2 pandemic led to massive disruptions of care for orthopedic patients. Although many elective procedures were put on hold, a cohort of patients who underwent surgery prior to the outbreak of the pandemic were rendered unable to participate in standard post-operative care. The purpose of this study was to determine the methods of post-operative care in arthroscopic anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction patients who received care during an early height of the pandemic to those who received standard of care in the prior year. We aimed to correlate those results with 1-year clinical outcomes in the form of subjective surveys. Methods Retrospective chart review was used to identify patients who underwent primary anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction in February and March of 2020 (case) and 2019 (control) at a single institution. Workman's compensation patients were excluded. Identified patients were asked to report post-operative care received, satisfaction with care, and complete the IKDC and Lysholm outcome measures. Surveys were conducted minimum 1-year post-operative. Results 236 patients were identified, including 103 in 2020 and 133 in 2019. Follow-up data was collected for 73 patients (70.9%) in 2020 and 97 patients (72.9%) in 2019. Fifty-one COVID cohort patients (69.9%) had at least one clinical visit conducted via telehealth, compared to zero in the control. There were no differences in IKDC (82.8 +/- 13.2 vs 85.0 +/- 12.0, P = 0.29) and Lysholm (89.2 +/- 11.3 vs 89.6 +/- 10.8, P = 0.82) between groups. There were no differences in patient satisfaction with the care received (82.9 +/- 22.4 vs 81.9 +/- 21.8, P = 0.79) Conclusion Despite disruptions in care, anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction patients have excellent 1-year outcomes during the pandemic. Telehealth follow-up appointments may be appropriate for anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction patients beyond the pandemic and do not seem to adversely affect short-term patient reported outcome measures.		[Lee, Donghoon; Lencer, Adam J.; Gibbs, Brian S.; Paul, Ryan W.; Tjoumakaris, Fotios P.] Rothman Orthopaed Inst, Dept Sports Med, Philadelphia, PA USA; [Lee, Donghoon] 2500 English Creek Ave,Bldg 1300, Egg Harbor Township, NJ 08234 USA								8							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000691071800001	21	Article; Article		
J	Meyers, Michael C.; Sterling, James C.								Lisfranc injury: Prevalence and maintaining a high index of suspicion for optimal evaluation								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				50	6			507	514		10.1080/00913847.2021.1969218			NOV 2 2022	2022	Objectives To quantify the long-term prevalence of game-related Lisfranc trauma in college football on artificial turf and natural grass. Methods 32 universities were evaluated over 10 competitive seasons across all Football Bowl Subdivision (FBS) conferences. Outcomes of interest included injury severity, injury category, primary type of injury, player and skill position, injury mechanism and situation, elective imaging and surgical procedures, and field conditions. Injury incidence rates (IIR) were calculated using injuries per 10 games = (number of injuries) number of games) x 10. Results Of the 1577 games documented, 783 games (49.7%) were played on a 3-layer artificial turf (>= 9.0 lbs/ft(2)) infill system versus 794 games (50.3%) played on natural grass. In sum, 78 Lisfranc cases were documented with 34 (43.6%) occurring on artificial turf, and 44 (56.4%) on natural grass. MANOVAs indicated significant main effects by injury category (F-3,F-74 = 6.439; P = .001), and injury mechanism (F-5,F-72 = 3.372; P = .009) observed between surfaces, but not by injury severity (F-2,F-75 = 0.720; P = .490), primary type of injury (F-4,F-73 = 0.772; P = .547), overall player (F-2,F-75 = 0.219; P = .804) and skill positions (F-8,F-69 = 0.850; P = .563), injury situation (F-10,F-67 = 1.030; P = .428), elective imaging and surgical procedures (F-3,F-74 = 0.515; P = .673), or field conditions (F-2,F-75 = 0.375; P = .688). Post hoc analyses indicated significantly greater incidences (P < .05) of Lisfranc trauma on natural grass attributed to shoe:surface interaction during noncontact play, and during no contact, foot rotation or planting. Ligament tears (n = 8; 57.1%), with minimal cases of subluxation/dislocations (n = 4; 28.6%) and fractures (n = 2; 14.3%) comprised grade 3 cases across both surfaces. Conclusion In regards to Lisfranc trauma, a 3-layer, heavyweight artificial infill surface is as safe or safer than natural grass. The findings of this study may be generalizable only to this level of football competition.		[Meyers, Michael C.] Idaho State Univ, Dept Human Performance & Sport Studies, Human Performance Lab, 921 South 8 Ave Stop 8105, Pocatello, ID 83209 USA; [Sterling, James C.] Baylor Scott & White Sports & Phys Med Ctr, Dallas, TX USA; [Meyers, Michael C.] Idaho State Univ, Dept Human Performance & Sport Studies, Human Performance Lab, 921 South 8 Ave Stop 8105, Pocatello, ID 83209 USA								10							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000688321300001	96	Article; Article		
J	Takagi, Hideki; Nakashima, Motomu; Sengoku, Yasuo; Tsunokawa, Takaaki; Koga, Daiki; Narita, Kenzo; Kudo, Shigetada; Sanders, Ross; Gonjo, Tomohiro								How do swimmers control their front crawl swimming velocity? Current knowledge and gaps from hydrodynamic perspectives								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				22	12			1552	1571		10.1080/14763141.2021.1959946			DEC 2 2023	2023	The aim of this study was to review the literature on front crawl swimming biomechanics, focusing on propulsive and resistive forces at different swimming velocities. Recent studies show that the resistive force increases in proportion to the cube of the velocity, which implies that a proficient technique to miminise the resistive (and maximise the propulsive) force is particularly important in sprinters. To increase the velocity in races, swimmers increase their stroke frequency. However, experimental and simulation studies have revealed that there is a maximum frequency beyond which swimmers cannot further increase swimming velocity due to a change in the angle of attack of the hand that reduces its propulsive force. While the results of experimental and simulation studies are consistent regarding the effect of the arm actions on propulsion, the findings of investigations into the effect of the kicking motion are conflicting. Some studies have indicated a positive effect of kicking on propulsion at high swimming velocities while the others have yielded the opposite result. Therefore, this review contributes to knowledge of how the upper-limb propulsion can be optimised and indicates a need for further investigation to understand how the kicking action can be optimised in front crawl swimming.		[Takagi, Hideki; Sengoku, Yasuo; Tsunokawa, Takaaki; Koga, Daiki] Univ Tsukuba, Fac Hlth & Sport Sci, Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan; [Nakashima, Motomu] Tokyo Inst Technol, Dept Syst & Control Engn, Tokyo, Japan; [Narita, Kenzo] Natl Inst Fitness & Sports Kanoya, Coaching Sports & Budo, Kanoya, Japan; [Kudo, Shigetada] Republ Polytech, Sch Sports Hlth & Leisure, Singapore, Singapore; [Sanders, Ross] Univ Sydney, Fac Med & Hlth, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Gonjo, Tomohiro] Norwegian Sch Sport Sci, Dept Phys Performance, Oslo, Norway; [Takagi, Hideki] Univ Tsukuba, Fac Hlth & Sport Sci, Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan								30							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000687586700001	71	Article; Article		
J	Vescovi, Jason D.; Mandic, Iva; Watson, Greig								Relationships between heart rate variability and indirect indicators of hydration status in elite male field hockey players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	3			619	625	17479541211041514	10.1177/17479541211041514			JUN 2022	2022	The aim of this study was to examine the relationship between resting morning heart rate variability (HRV) metrics and indirect markers of hydration status in elite male athletes. Twenty-two field hockey players (age 26.8 +/- 3.4 yr; height 178.4 +/- 6.3 cm; body mass 76.2 +/- 7.4 kg) were monitored over 10-d during a pre-Olympic training camp. Measurement of heart rate variability (HRV) during an orthostatic challenge, urine specific gravity (Usg, first morning void) and body mass were captured on seven of the mornings. Individual generalized linear mixed models evaluated the relationships between supine and standing HRV metrics with Usg and day-to-day change in body mass. No meaningful relationships were identified between supine (estimates -0.002 to 0.001) or standing (-0.002 to 0.003) HRV metrics and Usg as well as between supine (-0.003 to 0.016) or standing (-0.004 to 0.006) HRV metrics and changes in body mass. These outcomes indicate that supine and standing HRV metrics are not influenced by indirect indices of hydration status in elite male field hockey players.		[Vescovi, Jason D.; Mandic, Iva] Univ Toronto, Grad Sch Exercise Sci, Fac Kinesiol & Phys Educ, Toronto, ON, Canada; [Watson, Greig] Univ Tasmania, Sch Hlth Sci, Hobart, Tas, Australia; [Vescovi, Jason D.] Univ Toronto, Grad Sch Exercise Sci, Fac Kinesiol & Phys Educ, Toronto, ON, Canada								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000687356100001	31	Article; Article		
J	Le, Hung M.; Stracciolini, Andrea; Stein, Cynthia J.; Quinn, Bridget J.; Jackson, Sarah S.								Platelet rich plasma for hallux sesamoid injuries: a case series								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				50	2			181	184		10.1080/00913847.2021.1964006			MAR 4 2022	2022	Objective Hallux sesamoid injuries are well described and can be debilitating and chronically disabling. The role of orthobiologics such as platelet-rich plasma (PRP) in sesamoid injuries has not been reported. This study describes three cases of recalcitrant hallux sesamoid injuries in teenage athletes who returned to impact activities, pain free, following one treatment of PRP. Methods This is a case-series study describing three teenage athletes presenting to a tertiary level pediatric sports medicine practice with chronic hallux sesamoid injuries. Results The three patients (two female, one male) described in this case series were 13-, 16-, and 17-year-old athletes. Their primary sports were ballet, basketball, and Irish step dance, respectively. All three athletes received PRP: two received unilateral treatment (one tibial sesamoid, one fibular sesamoid) and one received treatment to bilateral tibial sesamoids. The average duration of symptoms prior to PRP was 52.5 weeks (14-128 weeks). The average time out of their primary sport was 48.7 weeks (20-78 weeks). Three of the 4 sesamoids treated with PRP were tibial sesamoids. Each site of injury was treated with one treatment of leukocyte-rich PRP. All three athletes were cleared to return to impact activities such as running and jumping at 6-9 weeks following PRP, specifically 9 weeks after the final PRP injection for the patient who underwent bilateral treatments. Conclusion In the three cases provided of sesamoid injuries treated with PRP, the time to return to impact activities was less than reported for athletes not treated with PRP. Acknowledging that other management factors likely contributed to return to impact activities, this case series sets the groundwork for future research investigating the role of PRP with needle fenestration in the treatment of sesamoid injuries.		[Le, Hung M.; Stracciolini, Andrea; Stein, Cynthia J.; Quinn, Bridget J.; Jackson, Sarah S.] Boston Childrens Hosp, Dept Orthoped, Div Sports Med, 319 Longwood Ave, Boston, MA 02115 USA; [Stracciolini, Andrea; Stein, Cynthia J.; Quinn, Bridget J.; Jackson, Sarah S.] Harvard Med Sch, Boston, MA 02115 USA; [Le, Hung M.] Boston Childrens Hosp, Dept Orthoped, Div Sports Med, 319 Longwood Ave, Boston, MA 02115 USA								12							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000686106800001	17	Article; Article		
J	Buehren, Christoph; Traeger, Lisa								The Impact of Psychological Traits on Performance Under Pressure-Experimental Evidence of Handball Penalties								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				23	1			3	38	15270025211027120	10.1177/15270025211027120			JAN 2022	2022	Our field experiment analyzes the influence of psychological traits on performance in sequential games. It uses handball penalties thrown under individual, team, or tournament incentives in the ABBA sequence. Considering the single moves of these games, player A and player B are taking turns in being the first-mover. We find no significant first-mover advantage. However, we observe that player A performs better than player B under tournament incentives and if he or she is confident enough.		[Buehren, Christoph] Tech Univ Clausthal, Dept Econ, Clausthal Zellerfeld, Germany; [Traeger, Lisa] Univ Kassel, Dept Econ, D-34119 Kassel, Germany; [Buehren, Christoph] Univ Kassel, Dept Econ, D-34119 Kassel, Germany								7							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000685959500001	80	Article; Article		
J	Gheller, Rodrigo Ghedini; Garcias, Leandro; Sakugawa, Raphael Luiz; Do Nascimento, Whendel Mesquita; Da Costa, Rafael Martins; Detanico, Daniele; Rossato, Mateus								Can the history of injury influence shoulder isokinetic torque parameters in volleyball players?								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	10			1692	1704		10.1080/14763141.2021.1966494			OCT 2 2024	2024	The aim of the present study was to compare shoulder internal rotator and external rotator isokinetic parameters in concentric and eccentric contractions between volleyball players with and without a history of shoulder injury. Thirty male volleyball players participated of this study, divided into two groups: with a history of injury (WHI) in the dominant shoulder (11 athletes; age: 19.4 +/- 3.6 years) and no history of injury (NHI) (19 athletes; age: 18.3 +/- 2.9 years). The peak torque (PT) and concentric (Con) and eccentric (Ecc) PT angles in internal (IR) and external rotation (ER) at velocities of 60 and 180 degrees/s were measured. The conventional (Con_ER:Con_IR), functional spiking (Ecc_ER:Con_IR), and cocking ratios (Ecc_IR:Con_ER) were calculated. No significant differences were found between groups for PT and PT angle, or for conventional, functional spiking, and cocking ratios. However, the spiking ratio was considered low (0.87) in the WHI group. Moreover, for the spiking ratio in the WHI group, PT at 60 degrees/s occurred at different angles. We conclude that previous injury in shoulder did not affect the peak torque, as well as conventional, spiking or cocking ratio. However, the PT angles at 60 degrees/s used to calculate the spiking ratio shifted due the prior injury.		[Gheller, Rodrigo Ghedini; Garcias, Leandro; Sakugawa, Raphael Luiz; Detanico, Daniele] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Ctr Sports, Biomechan Lab, Florianopolis, SC, Brazil; [Do Nascimento, Whendel Mesquita] Univ Fed Amazonas, Inst Biol Sci, Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil; [Da Costa, Rafael Martins] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Sch Sports, Res Ctr Phys Activ & Hlth, Florianopolis, SC, Brazil; [Rossato, Mateus] Univ Fed Amazonas, Phys Educ & Physiotherapy Fac, Human Performance Lab, Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil; [Gheller, Rodrigo Ghedini] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Ctr Sports, Biomechan Lab, Florianopolis, SC, Brazil								3							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000685802600001	27	Article; Article		
J	Lozano-Berges, Gabriel; Clansey, Adam C.; Casajus, Jose A.; Lake, Mark J.								Lack of impact moderating movement adaptation when soccer players perform game specific tasks on a third-generation artificial surface without a cushioning underlay								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				20	6			665	679		10.1080/14763141.2019.1579365			AUG 18 2021	2021	The objective of this study was to investigate how the inclusion of a cushioning underlay in a third-generation artificial turf (3G) affects player biomechanics during soccer-specific tasks. Twelve soccer players (9 males/3 females; 22.6 +/- 2.3 y) participated in this study. Mechanical impact testing of each 3G surface; without (3G-NCU) and with cushioning underlay (3G-CU) were conducted. Impact force characteristics, joint kinematics and joint kinetics variables were calculated on each surface condition during a sprint 90 degrees cut (90CUT), a sprint 180 degrees cut (180CUT), a drop jump (DROP) and a sprint with quick deceleration (STOP). For all tasks, greater peak resultant force, peak knee extensor moment and peak ankle dorsi-flexion moment were found in 3G-NCU than 3G-CU (p < 0.05). During 90CUT and STOP, loading rates were higher in 3G-NCU than 3G-CU (p < 0.05). During 180CUT, higher hip, knee and ankle ranges of motion were found in 3G-NCU (p < 0.05). These findings showed that the inclusion of cushioning underlay in 3G reduces impact loading forces and lower limb joint loading in soccer players across game-specific tasks. Overall, players were not attempting to reduce higher lower limb impact loading associated with a lack of surface cushioning underlay.		[Lozano-Berges, Gabriel; Casajus, Jose A.] Univ Zaragoza, Growth Exercise Nutr & Dev Res Grp, Zaragoza, Spain; [Lozano-Berges, Gabriel] Univ Zaragoza, Fac Hlth & Sport Sci, Dept Physiatry & Nursing, Zaragoza, Spain; [Lozano-Berges, Gabriel; Casajus, Jose A.] Univ Zaragoza, AgriFood Inst Aragon, CITA, Zaragoza, Spain; [Clansey, Adam C.] Harvard Med Sch, Spaulding Rehabil Hosp, Boston, MA 02115 USA; [Casajus, Jose A.] Univ Zaragoza, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Physiatry & Nursing, Zaragoza, Spain; [Casajus, Jose A.] Ctr Invest Biomed Red Obes & Nutr Physiopathol, Madrid, Spain; [Lake, Mark J.] Liverpool John Moores Univ, Res Inst Sport & Exercise Sci, Liverpool, Merseyside, England; Liverpool John Moores Univ, Res Inst Sport & Exercise Sci RISES, Liverpool, Merseyside, England; [Lozano-Berges, Gabriel] Univ Zaragoza, Growth Exercise Nutr & Dev Res Grp, Zaragoza, Spain; [Lozano-Berges, Gabriel] Univ Zaragoza, Fac Hlth & Sport Sci, Dept Physiatry & Nursing, Zaragoza, Spain; [Lozano-Berges, Gabriel] Univ Zaragoza, AgriFood Inst Aragon, CITA, Zaragoza, Spain								7							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000683582300001	43	Article; Article		
J	Gonjo, Tomohiro; Olstad, Bjorn Harald								Differences between elite and sub-elite swimmers in a 100 m breaststroke: a new race analysis approach with time-series velocity data								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				22	12			1722	1733		10.1080/14763141.2021.1954238			DEC 2 2023	2023	The purpose of the present study was to investigate differences in a 100 m breaststroke time-trial between elite and sub-elite swimmers. Elite and sub-elite male swimmers (seven each; 772.1 +/- 35.2 and 610.6 +/- 24.7 FINA point, respectively) performed 100 m breaststroke, which was recorded by a multi-camera system that provided the mean and time-series velocity data in the glide, pull-out, and clean-swimming segments. The mean velocity in each segment was compared between the groups using an independent-samples t-test (for the 1(st) lap) and two-way mixed-design ANOVA (for the 2(nd)-4(th) laps), which suggested a larger mean clean-swimming (in all laps; 7-11% difference) and glide (in the 2(nd) and 3(rd) lap; about 13% difference) velocity for the elite swimmers. The time-series data displayed faster velocity in elite swimmers than in the sub-elite group during the first part (up to 40% time) of the glide segment (p < 0.05). Differences in the clean-swimming segment between the groups were observed (p < 0.001) apart from the first 5-15% time of the segment. No differences in the pull-out and at the beginning of the clean-swimming imply that coaches and swimmers should not assume that a good clean-swimming technique also guarantees fast velocity in these segments.		[Gonjo, Tomohiro; Olstad, Bjorn Harald] Norwegian Sch Sport Sci, Dept Phys Performance, Oslo, Norway; [Gonjo, Tomohiro] Norwegian Sch Sport Sci, Dept Phys Performance, Oslo, Norway								19							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000684146100001	29	Article; Article		
J	Lawson, Kerianne								The Lasting Impact of NCAA Sanctions: SMU and the Death Penalty								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				22	8			946	981	15270025211024650	10.1177/15270025211024650			DEC 2021	2021	In 1987, the Southern Methodist University (SMU) football program received the National Collegiate Athletic Association's (NCAA's) harshest penalty, often referred to as the "death penalty." SMU was caught committing two or more major violations of NCAA rules in < 5 years. Therefore, under the repeat offender clause, their football program was terminated for the 1987-1988 school year, and they chose to take the next season off as well. In the years following the death penalty, the team struggled to find success. Using the synthetic control method, this article measures the cost of the death penalty in terms of athletic performance and the university's finances.		[Lawson, Kerianne] West Virginia Univ, John Chambers Coll Business & Econ, Dept Econ, Morgantown, WV 26506 USA; [Lawson, Kerianne] North Dakota State Univ, Coll Agr Food Syst & Nat Resources, Dept Agribusiness & Appl Econ, Fargo, ND 58105 USA								6							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000684663800001	38	Article; Article		
J	Berri, David J.; Burdekin, Richard C. K.; Deutscher, Christian								Nationality Effects on the Allocation of Playing Time in the Chinese Basketball Association: Xenophilia or Xenophobia?								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				23	2			156	174	15270025211034824	10.1177/15270025211034824			FEB 2022	2022	This paper uses 2011-2019 data from the Chinese Basketball Association to assess the determinants of playing time with a focus on the effects of players' national origin. Playing time is explained by an array of standard performance variables as well as each player's characteristics (such as age, height, and weight). Controlling for these factors, we test for whether there is any evidence of preferential treatment for foreign players over Chinese players. Our findings, using both a fixed effects model and the Oaxaca-Blinder decomposition approach, offer consistent support for discrimination in favor of U.S. players and other foreign nationals. Intriguingly, Chinese coaches discriminate against Chinese players even more than non-Chinese coaches. We argue that foreign players draw attendance and hence receive more playing time than is justified by their performance alone.		[Berri, David J.] Southern Utah Univ, Econ & Finance, Cedar City, UT USA; [Burdekin, Richard C. K.] Claremont Mckenna Coll, Robert Day Sch Econ & Finance, 500 E Ninth St, Claremont, CA 91711 USA; [Deutscher, Christian] Bielefeld Univ, Dept Sport Sci, Bielefeld, NRW, Germany; [Burdekin, Richard C. K.] Claremont Mckenna Coll, Robert Day Sch Econ & Finance, 500 E Ninth St, Claremont, CA 91711 USA								9							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000684650600001	31	Article; Article		
J	Bautista, Iker J.; Martin-Rivera, Fernando; Martinez, Isidoro; Haff, Gregory G.; Maroto-Izquierdo, Sergio								The influence of calculation method and relative strength on the load-velocity relationship in bench press exercise								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	3			576	582	17479541211035499	10.1177/17479541211035499			JUN 2022	2022	Purpose The objective of this study was: (1) to compare the effect of the calculation method using average (Avalue), and best value (Bvalue) of Mean Propulsive Velocity (MPV) on the Load Velocity Profile (LVprofile) during the barbell bench press exercise in elite handball players. In addition, (2) to analyze the relationship between the individual coefficient of variation (CVind) of an incremental load protocol in the bench press exercise with relative strength (F-rel) in professional handball players. Methods Nineteen elite international handball players (age 18 [+/- 1] y; body mass 93 [+/- 14] kg; height 191 [+/- 6] cm) performed an incremental test during the barbell bench press exercise. General and individual LVprofile, F-rel,F- and CVind were modelled through MPV and two calculation models (Avalue(,) vs Bvalue). Results There were significant differences (p < 0.05) between both conditions (Bvalue vs. Avalue). There was an inverse relationship between the F-rel and the CVind (r = -0.66, p < 0.001). When CVind was >10% significant differences were found between the two calculations method (Avalue(,) vs Bvalue). However, no significant differences were found between Avalue(,) vs Bvalue when the CVind was Conclusions The calculation method used to assess the barbell bench press LVprofile impacts the nature of the relationship. Regardless CVind values, Avalue is a good choice to determine the LVprofile when the CVind is >10%, if the CVind is <10%, Bvalue will be the better option to determine the LVprofile.		[Bautista, Iker J.] Catholic Univ Valencia, Dept Physiotherapy, Valencia, Spain; [Martin-Rivera, Fernando] Univ Valencia, Res Grp Prevent & Hlth Exercise & Sport, Valencia, Spain; [Martinez, Isidoro] Univ Leon, Dept Sport Sci, Leon, Spain; [Haff, Gregory G.] Edith Cowan Univ, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, Ctr Exercise & Sports Sci Res, Joondalup, Australia; [Maroto-Izquierdo, Sergio] European Univ Miguel de Cervantes, Dept Hlth Sci, Valladolid, Spain; [Maroto-Izquierdo, Sergio] Appl Sports Sci Ctr, Proporc A, Valladolid, Spain; [Martin-Rivera, Fernando] Univ Valencia, Fac Phys Act & Sports Sci, Blasco Ibanez Av 13, Valencia 46010, Spain								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000684654600001	22	Article; Article		
J	Muzzi, Don; Blaeser, Anna M.; Niedecker, John; Gonzalez-Lomas, Guillem								Epidemiology of professional bare-knuckle fighting injuries								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				50	5			448	453		10.1080/00913847.2021.1955604			SEP 3 2022	2022	Background Professional bare-knuckle fighting (BKF) is a variation of boxing which held its first modern legal event in 2018 in Wyoming. Since then, the sport has expanded with state-sanctioned events held in Florida, Missouri, Mississippi, Kansas, and Alabama. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the epidemiology of injuries in bare-knuckle fighting bouts and to discern any trends which may distinguish it from traditional boxing with padded gloves. Methods Observational data collection for all state-sanctioned professional bare-knuckle fighting bouts was conducted sequentially over a two-year period from June of 2018 through November of 2020. Information related to fight outcome, injury diagnosis, and injury location was documented. This data was then analyzed and the incidence rates by injury type and location were calculated. Results There were 141 bouts conducted during the study period. Out of the 282 individual combatants, 105 (36.6%) sustained at least one injury during the event and 123 total injuries were recorded. In total, 98 (34.8%) lacerations were recorded; on average, 6.2 +- 4.5 sutures were required per laceration. There were 5 superficial hand lacerations and 80 facial lacerations. Seventeen (6.0%) fractures occurred, with 8 hand fractures, 6 nasal fractures, 2 orbital fractures, and 2 dental fractures. There were 8 (2.8%) periorbital hematomas sustained by fighters. Transfer to the hospital was required on 5 (1.8%) separate occasions, twice for orbital fractures and 3 times for traumatic brain injuries. In all, there were 8 (2.8%) concussions with symptoms. Conclusion The most frequent injuries in BKF include lacerations and hand fractures. Concussions are relatively uncommon compared to other injuries.		[Muzzi, Don; Blaeser, Anna M.; Niedecker, John; Gonzalez-Lomas, Guillem] New York Univ Langone Hlth, New York, NY 10016 USA; [Blaeser, Anna M.] New York Univ Langone Hlth, New York, NY 10016 USA								2							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000684403500001	12	Article; Article		
J	Etzel, Christine M.; Wang, Karina H.; Li, Lambert T.; Nadeem, Maheen; Owens, Brett D.								Epidemiology of rugby-related fractures in high school- and college-aged players in the United States: an analysis of the 1999-2018 NEISS database								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				50	6			501	506		10.1080/00913847.2021.1962204			NOV 2 2022	2022	Objectives: Rugby is a high-impact collision sport with identical competition rules by sex. The aim of this study was to analyze the trend of rugby-related fractures by body site, sex, and age in amateur athletes from 1999 to 2018. Methods: The National Electronic Injury Surveillance System (NEISS) database was queried to characterize rugby-related injuries from 1999 to 2018 in patients aged 14-23 years old. National injury estimates were calculated using sample weights. Chi-square analysis and one-way ANOVA were performed to compare categorical variables. Results: Out of a total of 43,722 weighted cases of rugby-related fractures over the 19-year period, 70.9% were among high school- and college-aged males and females between the ages of 14-23 years (N = 30,996). Males constituted 79.3% of cases whereas females composed 20.7% of the cases. The proportion of upper extremity fractures was similar in both males and females, yet facial fractures were significantly more common among males than females (27.9% vs. 14.6%, P < 0.001). Among facial fractures, nasal fractures represented 74.4% of the sample, yet facial fractures only resulted in hospital admittance in 1.3% of cases. Lower extremity fractures were more likely to be severe, with 11.3% of LE cases being admitted to the hospital.Conclusion: Rugby players in the US diagnosed in the ED with fractures consisted largely of male, high school- and college-aged athletes. Males and females experienced upper and lower-extremity fractures at comparable rates, yet lower extremity injuries were more likely to be admitted to a hospital. Men were significantly more likely to experience a facial fracture in which a majority were nasal fractures.		[Etzel, Christine M.; Li, Lambert T.; Nadeem, Maheen; Owens, Brett D.] Brown Univ, Dept Orthopaed, Providence, RI 02912 USA; [Wang, Karina H.] Brown Univ, Biol Dept, Providence, RI 02912 USA; [Etzel, Christine M.] Brown Univ, Dept Orthopaed, Providence, RI 02912 USA								4							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000684101200001	33	Article; Article		
J	Crespo, Miguel; Botella-Carrubi, Dolores; Jabaloyes, Jose								Coaches' perceptions of innovation programs of the Royal Spanish Tennis Federation								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	6			1293	1304	17479541211035556	10.1177/17479541211035556			DEC 2021	2021	This research studied the coaches' perceptions of the innovation programs of the Royal Spanish Tennis Federation (RFET) during 2016-2020. The RFET is one of the most relevant national federations in Spain both in terms of results at the highest levels of the game as well as in terms of participation and grassroots tennis. Coaches are considered relevant stakeholders of any sport federation due to their role in delivering the sport. A 29-item questionnaire adapted to tennis was completed by 132 certified coaches RFET members which had different years of experience and coached players of various skill levels. Results showed significant differences between the coaches with more than 20 years of experience as they perceived more rivalry between regional federations in the access to grants and more international competitiveness at high-level tennis as compared to their less experienced colleagues. Coaches also considered that the COVID-19 pandemic had negatively affected the innovation strategy and capability of the organization. They identified a grassroots initiative and a coach education project as the two most valued innovative programs implemented by the RFET in the period. These last findings coincide with those from previous research and highlight the relevance of providing coaches with clear player development guidelines and opportunities for continuous professional development through education. It can be concluded that federation leaders should consider the coaches' perceptions on their innovation programs. This will assist them to better provide initiatives that will satisfy their needs and improve the effectiveness of their federations.		[Crespo, Miguel] Int Tennis Federat, London, England; [Crespo, Miguel; Botella-Carrubi, Dolores; Jabaloyes, Jose] Univ Politecn Valencia, Valencia, Spain; [Crespo, Miguel] Calle Perez Bayer 11,10-A, Valencia 46002, Spain								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000683917700001	57	Article; Article		
J	Klemp, Maximilian; Memmert, Daniel; Rein, Robert								The influence of running performance on scoring the first goal in a soccer match								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	3			558	567	17479541211035382	10.1177/17479541211035382			JUN 2022	2022	Previous studies investigating running distance in high performance soccer have led to contradictory evidence, potentially due to ignoring contextual information during match phases. The present study therefore examined the relationship between running performance and goal scoring in a football match for a standardised score line. In a sample of 302 matches from the first German Bundesliga, the first goal was modelled as a function of the teams' running performance and team strength using logistic regression. Goodness of fit was assessed by the prediction accuracy of the model utilising cross-validation. The best model showed a mean accuracy of 77%, reflecting a strong relationship between running performance and the probability of scoring the first goal. This relationship was strongest for total running distance compared to high-speed, sprint or in-possession running distance. We propose two different potential mechanisms to explain the relationship between running performance and goal-scoring found in the present study. These are (1) better ability to reach tactical aims or (2) accumulation of fatigue in the opponent. Future studies should build on these results by further examining the relationship between running performance and success using a more granular segmentation of matches.		[Klemp, Maximilian; Memmert, Daniel; Rein, Robert] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Training & Comp Sci Sports, Cologne, Germany; [Klemp, Maximilian] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Training & Comp Sci Sports, Cologne, Germany								16							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000683934800001	60	Article; Article		
J	Semmelroth, Dirk								Time to Say Goodbye: A Duration Analysis of the Determinants of Coach Dismissals and Quits in Major League Soccer								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				23	1			95	120	15270025211034820	10.1177/15270025211034820			JAN 2022	2022	This study investigates the determinants of voluntary and involuntary head coach turnovers using a large dataset of some 6,500 coach-game observations from Major League Soccer over 2004-2019. The duration analysis results show that team performance related to expected playoff qualification and performance expectations matter for both types of separations. Moreover, the findings reveal that coach reputation decreases dismissal probabilities, while coach age increases quit rates. The results of this study will be of particular interest to Major League Soccer team owners and managers as well as for business management outside the sports industry.		[Semmelroth, Dirk] Paderborn Univ, Dept Management, Warburger Str 100, D-33098 Paderborn, Germany; [Semmelroth, Dirk] Paderborn Univ, Dept Management, Warburger Str 100, D-33098 Paderborn, Germany								8							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000681435000001	42	Article; Article		
J	Tribolet, Rhys; Sheehan, William Bradshaw; Novak, Andrew Roman; Watsford, Mark Langley; Fransen, Job								A descriptive and exploratory study of factors contributing to augmented feedback duration in professional Australian football practice								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	3			609	618	17479541211037038	10.1177/17479541211037038			JUN 2022	2022	Augmented feedback supplements or replaces task-intrinsic feedback and is common in team sports, however, no studies have reported on augmented feedback provision in professional Australian Football (AF) practice. This study investigated the effects of practice characteristics (feedback intervention frequency, practice time, practice type, season phase, practice activity form and competitive match result) on the duration of feedback provided by professional AF coaches. Two linear mixed-effects models were constructed. The first examined the collective associations between these practice characteristics and feedback durations while the second model investigated the associations between the same practice characteristics and previous match result. Results showed the feedback intervention frequency, practice time and a practice time*feedback intervention frequency interaction explained 65% of feedback duration whenever feedback was provided. Additionally, practice time, feedback intervention frequency, a practice time*match result interaction and a match result*feedback intervention frequency interaction explained 99% of feedback duration in-season. Important factors that were hypothesised to affect feedback durations in AF such as practice type, practice activity form or season phase did not contribute any explanatory power. This study provides information on how professional AF coaches provide augmented feedback in-situ and provides opportunities for skill acquisition specialists to aid coaches when delivering augmented feedback.		[Tribolet, Rhys; Sheehan, William Bradshaw; Novak, Andrew Roman; Watsford, Mark Langley; Fransen, Job] Univ Technol Sydney, Fac Hlth, Sch Sport Exercise & Rehabil, Human Performance Res Ctr, UTS Rugby Australia Bldg,Corner Dr & Moore Pk Rd, Sydney, NSW 2021, Australia; [Tribolet, Rhys] Univ Technol Sydney, Fac Hlth, Sch Sport Exercise & Rehabil, Human Performance Res Ctr, UTS Rugby Australia Bldg,Corner Dr & Moore Pk Rd, Sydney, NSW 2021, Australia								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000680145600001	39	Article; Article		
J	Apkarian, Marc R.								Blood Pressure Characteristics and Responses During Resistance Exercise								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				43	4			78	86		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000607			AUG 2021	2021	Blood pressure changes acutely during resistance exercise. Continuous, beat-by-beat assessment provides detailed temporal resolution of blood pressure profiles, through techniques including intra-arterial catheterization, photoplethysmography, or applanation tonometry. However, noncontinuous measurements may be conducted before and after resistance exercise through auscultatory sphygmomanometry or oscillometry. Blood pressures tend to increase across repetitions within sets, influenced by load magnitude, repetitions and sets performed, muscle mass recruited, and rest periods; the highest pressures result from multi-joint, large muscle group exercises. Evaluation of such factors may facilitate better understanding of blood pressure responses to acute resistance exercise and influence program design considerations relative to anticipated hemodynamic changes.		[Apkarian, Marc R.] Biola Univ, Dept Kinesiol & Hlth Sci, La Mirada, CA 90639 USA; [Apkarian, Marc R.] Biola Univ, Dept Kinesiol & Hlth Sci, La Mirada, CA 90639 USA								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:000711786300009	56	Article; Article		
J	Binkley, Helen M.; Phillips, Kristi L.; Wise, Stephanie L.								Menopausal Women: Recognition, Exercise Benefits, Considerations, and Programming Needs								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				43	4			87	104		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000606			AUG 2021	2021	Recognition of the physiological and psychological concerns associated with menopausal women is described. A review of the current literature regarding these conditions (vasomotor responses, insomnia, sarcopenia, osteoporosis, obesity, cardiovascular conditions, metabolic concerns, and psychological concerns) and how exercise impacts the conditions are discussed. Considerations of exercise for menopausal women are presented. General exercise programming and exercise adherence preferences are reviewed with recommendations for a variety of exercise types, exercise progressions, and exercise programming to meet the needs of the menopausal woman to improve overall health and well-being.		[Binkley, Helen M.; Phillips, Kristi L.; Wise, Stephanie L.] Middle Tennessee State Univ, Dept Hlth & Human Performance, Murfreesboro, TN 37130 USA; [Binkley, Helen M.] Middle Tennessee State Univ, Dept Hlth & Human Performance, Murfreesboro, TN 37130 USA								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:000711786300010	167	Article; Article		
J	Laakso, Lassi A.; Schuster, Jake G.								Dynamic Correspondence of the Hang Power Clean to Skating Starts in Men's Ice Hockey								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				43	4			1	8		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000618			AUG 2021	2021	The transfer of training of the hang power clean to skating starts in men's ice hockey was evaluated applying Verkhoshansky and Siff's proposed criteria of dynamic correspondence to the existing research. A relatively high degree of dynamic correspondence was evidenced throughout the criteria, although with a consideration of the sagittal plane alone. Based on this evaluation, the use of the hang power clean in training increases ice hockey players' capacity to express their skill through an improvement in peak force output and an increase in rate of force development in lower limb extension and is therefore recommended to practitioners training ice hockey players.		[Laakso, Lassi A.] St Marys Univ, Sch Sport Hlth & Appl Sci, Twickenham, England; [Laakso, Lassi A.] Hockey Club Lugano, Lugano, Switzerland; [Schuster, Jake G.] Florida State Univ, Inst Sports Sci & Sports Med, Tallahassee, FL 32306 USA; [Laakso, Lassi A.] St Marys Univ, Sch Sport Hlth & Appl Sci, Twickenham, England; [Laakso, Lassi A.] Hockey Club Lugano, Lugano, Switzerland								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:000711786300001	49	Article; Article		
J	Turner, Anthony N.; Parmar, Nimai; Jovanovski, Alex; Hearne, Gary								Assessing Group-Based Changes in High-Performance Sport. Part 2: Effect Sizes and Embracing Uncertainty Through Confidence Intervals								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				43	4			68	77		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000613			AUG 2021	2021	Today's strength and conditioning coach must extend their skill set to include data analysis, understating the validity and utility of p values, effect sizes, confidence intervals, and terms such as the smallest worthwhile change and minimal difference. The aim of part 2 of this 2-part review is to now build on our discussion of null hypothesis significance testing (covered in part 1) and introduce effect sizes, measures of variability, and confidence intervals, culminating in recommendations as to which may be the most viable options within the context of performance-based sport and thus potential methods to report group-based changes. This article has a series of worked examples to aid the reader.		[Turner, Anthony N.; Parmar, Nimai; Jovanovski, Alex; Hearne, Gary] Middlesex Univ, Fac Sci & Technol, Dept Design Engn & Maths, London, England; [Turner, Anthony N.] Middlesex Univ, Fac Sci & Technol, Dept Design Engn & Maths, London, England								23							Sport Sciences	WOS:000711786300008	18	Article; Article		
J	Zimerer, Carla; Alves, Sabrina Pereira; Rufo-Tavares, Weverton; Carletti, Luciana; Barbosa de Lira, Claudio Andre; Andrade, Marilia S.; Viana, Ricardo B.; Gentil, Paulo; Vancini, Rodrigo L.								Home-Based Kettlebell Exercise and Coronavirus Outbreak: Practical Suggestions								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				43	4			115	120		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000615			AUG 2021	2021	The coronavirus pandemic and the adopted social isolation to contain the virus spread led to several negative consequences including the decrease in the population's physical activity levels and increased physical inactivity and sedentary behavior. Home-based physical exercise assumes fundamental importance to maintain physical activity and fitness levels. Among the various exercise possibilities of home-based exercise, the kettlebell exercise can be a useful and low-cost tool. The kettlebell is a round-shaped steel or cast-iron weight, commonly described as resembling a cannonball with a handle whose dimensions increase with weight that varies from 2 to 92 kg. Kettlebell exercise offers an opportunity to train multiple muscles through functional exercises that could be performed at home to improve and maintain health-related physical fitness (e.g., cardiorespiratory capacity, muscle strength, and body composition) and mental health. In addition, kettlebell exercise (with a progressive increase in training overload) could be an alternative of home-based exercise program for the general population during pandemic outbreaks.		[Zimerer, Carla; Alves, Sabrina Pereira; Rufo-Tavares, Weverton; Carletti, Luciana; Vancini, Rodrigo L.] Univ Fed Espirito Santo, Ctr Educ Fis & Desportos, Vitoria, ES, Brazil; [Barbosa de Lira, Claudio Andre; Viana, Ricardo B.; Gentil, Paulo] Univ Fed Goias, Fac Educ Fis & Danca, Goiania, Go, Brazil; [Andrade, Marilia S.] Univ Fed Sao Paulo, Dept Fisiol, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Vancini, Rodrigo L.] Univ Fed Espirito Santo, Ctr Educ Fis & Desportos, Vitoria, ES, Brazil								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:000711786300012	27	Article; Article		
J	Richter, Chris; Petushek, Erich; Grindem, Hege; Franklyn-Miller, Andrew; Bahr, Roald; Krosshaug, Tron								Cross-validation of a machine learning algorithm that determines anterior cruciate ligament rehabilitation status and evaluation of its ability to predict future injury								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				22	1			91	101		10.1080/14763141.2021.1947358			JAN 2 2023	2023	Classification algorithms determine the similarity of an observation to defined classes, e.g., injured or healthy athletes, and can highlight treatment targets or assess progress of a treatment. The primary aim was to cross-validate a previously developed classification algorithm using a different sample, while a secondary aim was to examine its ability to predict future ACL injuries. The examined outcome measure was 'healthy-limb' class membership probability, which was compared between a cohort of athletes without previous or future (No Injury) previous (PACL) and future ACL injury (FACL). The No Injury group had significantly higher probabilities than the PACL (p < 0.001; medium effect) and FACL group (p <= 0.045; small effect). The ability to predict group membership was poor for the PACL (area under curve [AUC]; 0.61<AUC<0.62) and FACL group (0.57<AUC<0.59). The ACL injury incidence proportion was highest in athletes with probabilities below 0.20 (9.4%; +2.7% to baseline), while athletes with probabilities above 0.80 had an incidence proportion of 4.1% (-2.6%). While findings that a low probability might represent an increase in injury risk on a group level, it is not sensitive enough for injury screening to predict a future injury on the individual level.		[Richter, Chris; Franklyn-Miller, Andrew] Sports Surg Clin, Sports Med Dept, Santry Demesne, Ireland; [Richter, Chris] Roehampton Univ, Dept Life Sci, London, England; [Petushek, Erich] Michigan Technol Univ, Dept Cognit & Learning Sci, Houghton, MI 49931 USA; [Grindem, Hege; Bahr, Roald; Krosshaug, Tron] Norwegian Sch Sport Sci, Oslo Sport Trauma Res Ctr, Dept Sports Med, Oslo, Norway; [Grindem, Hege] Karolinska Inst, Stockholm Sports Trauma Res Ctr, Dept Mol Med & Surg, Stockholm, Sweden; [Franklyn-Miller, Andrew] Univ Melbourne, Ctr Hlth Exercise & Sports Med, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Bahr, Roald] Aspetar Orthopaed & Sports Med Hosp, Doha, Qatar; [Richter, Chris] Sports Surg Clin, Sports Med Dept, Santry Demesne, Ireland; [Richter, Chris] Roehampton Univ, Dept Life Sci, London, England								6							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000679175200001	26	Article; Article		
J	Guignard, Brice; Ayad, Omar; Baillet, Heloise; Mell, Florian; Simbana Escobar, David; Boulanger, Jeremie; Seifert, Ludovic								Validity, reliability and accuracy of inertial measurement units (IMUs) to measure angles: application in swimming								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2021.1945136				2021	The first objective was to test the validity, reliability and accuracy of paired inertial measurement units (IMUs) to assess absolute angles relative to Vicon and OptiTrack systems. The potential impacts of slow vs. rapid and intermittent vs. continuous movements were tested during 2D laboratory analyses and 3D ecological context analysis. The second objective was to test the IMUs alone in an ecological activity (i.e., front crawl) that encompassed the previous independent variables to quantify inter-cyclic variability. Slow and intermittent motion ensured high to reasonable validity, reliability and accuracy. Rapid motion revealed an out-of-phase pattern for temporal reliability and lower validity, which was also visible in 3D. Also, spatial reliability and accuracy decreased in 3D, mainly due to discrepancies in local maximums, whereas temporal reliability remained in-phase. For the second objective, inter-cyclic variability did not exceed 12 degrees based on root mean square error (RMSE). Therefore, IMUs should be considered valuable supplements to optoelectronic systems if users carefully position the sensors in rigid clusters and calibrate them to integrate potential offsets. Drift correction by spline interpolation or normalisation of the absolute data should also be considered as additional techniques that increase IMU performance in ecological contexts of performance.		[Guignard, Brice; Ayad, Omar; Baillet, Heloise; Mell, Florian; Simbana Escobar, David; Seifert, Ludovic] Univ Rouen Normandy, Fac Sport Sci, Mont St Aignan, France; [Simbana Escobar, David] French Swimming Federat, Performance Optimisat Dept, Clichy, France; [Boulanger, Jeremie] Univ Lille, Fac Sci & Technol, Lille, France; [Guignard, Brice] Univ Rouen Normandy, Fac Sport Sci, Mont St Aignan, France								30							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000679221800001	64	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Aguiar, Olivia M. G.; Radivojevic, Olga; Potvin, Brigitte M.; Vakili, Omid; Robinovitch, Stephen N.								Effective stiffness, damping and mass of the body during laboratory simulations of shoulder checks in ice hockey								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	10			1606	1624		10.1080/14763141.2021.1951828			OCT 2 2024	2024	Ice hockey is a fast-paced sport with a high incidence of collisions between players. Shoulder checks are especially common, accounting for a large portion of injuries including concussions. The forces generated during these collisions depend on the inertial and viscoelastic characteristics of the impacting bodies. Furthermore, the effect of shoulder pads in reducing peak force depends on the baseline (unpadded) properties of the shoulder. We conducted experiments with nine men's ice hockey players (aged 19-26) to measure their effective shoulder stiffness, damping and mass during the impact stage of a shoulder check. Participants delivered a style of check commonly observed in men's university ice hockey, involving lateral impact to the deltoid region, with the shoulder brought stationary by the collision. The effective stiffness and damping coefficient of the shoulder averaged 12.8 kN/m and 377 N-s/m at 550 N, and the effective mass averaged 47% of total body mass. The damping coefficient and stiffness increased with increasing force, but there was no significant difference in the damping coefficient above 350 N. Our results provide new evidence on the dynamics of shoulder checks in ice hockey, as a starting point for designing test systems for evaluating and improving the protective value of shoulder pads.		[Aguiar, Olivia M. G.; Radivojevic, Olga; Potvin, Brigitte M.; Vakili, Omid; Robinovitch, Stephen N.] Simon Fraser Univ, Dept Biomed Physiol & Kinesiol, Burnaby, BC, Canada; [Aguiar, Olivia M. G.] Simon Fraser Univ, Dept Biomed Physiol & Kinesiol, Burnaby, BC, Canada								4							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000678405600001	32	Article; Article		
J	Augustus, Simon; Hudson, Penny E.; Harvey, Nick; Smith, Neal								Whole-body energy transfer strategies during football instep kicking: implications for training practices								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	11			1917	1932		10.1080/14763141.2021.1951827			NOV 1 2024	2024	Knowledge of whole-body energy transfer strategies during football instep kicking can help inform empirically grounded training practices. The aim of this study was thus to investigate energy transfer strategies of 15 semi-professional players performing kicks for speed and accuracy. Three-dimensional kinematics and GRFs (both 1000 Hz) were incorporated into segment power analyses to derive energy transfers between the support leg, torso, pelvis and kick leg throughout the kick. Energy transferred from support leg (r = 0.62, P = 0.013) and torso (r = 0.54, P = 0.016) into the pelvis during tension arc formation and leg cocking was redistributed to the kick leg during the downswing (r = 0.76, P < 0.001) and were associated with faster foot velocities at ball contact. This highlights whole-body function during instep kicking. Of particular importance were: (a) regulating support leg energy absorption, (b) eccentric formation and concentric release of a 'tension arc' between the torso and kicking hip, and (c) coordinated proximal to distal sequencing of the kick leg. Resistance exercises that replicate the demands of these interactions may help develop more powerful kicking motions and varying task and/or environmental constraints might facilitate development of adaptable energy transfer strategies.		[Augustus, Simon; Hudson, Penny E.; Smith, Neal] Univ Chichester, Chichester Inst Sport, Chichester, West Sussex, Chichester PO19 6PE, W Sussex, England; [Harvey, Nick] PvF Football Acad, Hanoi, Vietnam; [Augustus, Simon] Univ Chichester, Chichester Inst Sport, Chichester, West Sussex, Chichester PO19 6PE, W Sussex, England								13							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000679922900001	43	Article; Article		
J	McCosker, Chris; Otte, Fabian; Rothwell, Martyn; Davids, Keith								Principles for technology use in athlete support across the skill level continuum								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	2			437	444	17479541211033471	10.1177/17479541211033471			APR 2022	2022	A major challenge to sport practitioners working across all levels of sport is ensuring that technological platforms are integrated effectively to assist learning along the development pathway. Under the framework of ecological dynamics, we introduce technology as a support opportunity for athletes to learn to become better attuned to, and utilise, key sources of information to self-regulate their actions. Importantly, technology not only supports learning, but also serves as a tool to encourage active engagement in learning from early childhood to late adulthood. Coaches also need to be wary of the potential perils of the mismanagement of technology use and how it can act as a learning rate limiter. Misuse of technological tools may inhibit the learning process by inhibiting an athlete's ability or willingness to explore and exploit available information in the performance environment, as well as stimulate possible feelings of control and surveillance. By illustrating how technology may complement athlete learning under the guidance of the theoretical framework of ecological dynamics, it is intended that coaches may gain a better understanding of how technological tools can be used more strategically to enhance learning.		[McCosker, Chris] Australian Catholic Univ, Sch Behav & Hlth Sci, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [Otte, Fabian] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Exercise Training & Sport Informat, Dept Cognit, Cologne, Germany; [Otte, Fabian] German Sport Univ Cologne, Team Racket Sport Res, Cologne, Germany; [Rothwell, Martyn; Davids, Keith] Sheffield Hallam Univ, Sport & Human Performance Res Grp, Sheffield, S Yorkshire, England; [McCosker, Chris] Australian Catholic Univ, Sch Behav & Hlth Sci, Brisbane, Qld, Australia								22							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000677783500001	47	Article; Article		
J	Morais, Jorge E.; Barbosa, Tiago M.; Forte, Pedro; Pinto, Joao N.; Marinho, Daniel A.								Assessment of the inter-lap stability and relationship between the race time and start, clean swim, turn and finish variables in elite male junior swimmers' 200 m freestyle								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	10			1625	1639		10.1080/14763141.2021.1952298			OCT 2 2024	2024	The aims of this study were to: (1) assess the stability (mean and normative) of the lap performance, and a set of clean swim and turn variables of junior male swimmers in the 200 m freestyle, and; (2) verify the relationship between the start, clean swim, turn, and finish phases in the 200 m freestyle. Seventy-six individual races in the 200 m freestyle at the 2019 long-course LEN European Junior Championships were analysed. Start, clean swim, turn, and finish variables were assessed. The lap performance showed a significant variance. The highest variation was verified between the first and third lap (Coefficient of Variation = 7.37%). The clean swim and the total turn also presented a significant variance. Normative stability indicated a moderate to very-high stability for all variables. All phases of the race had significant correlations with the final race time (p < 0.001). The total turn (i.e., the total time spent to perform the turn), specifically turn #3, showed the largest correlation with the total race performance. The significant correlation between all phases of the race and the final race time indicates that coaches and swimmers should customise the swimmers' preparation and race strategy at major international competitions, based on the individual characteristics of each swimmer.		[Morais, Jorge E.; Barbosa, Tiago M.; Forte, Pedro] Polytech Inst Braganca, Dept Sport Sci, Braganca, Portugal; [Morais, Jorge E.; Barbosa, Tiago M.; Forte, Pedro; Marinho, Daniel A.] Univ Beira Interior, Res Ctr Sports Hlth & Human Dev CIDESD, Covilha, Portugal; [Forte, Pedro; Pinto, Joao N.] Higher Inst Educ Sci Douro, Dept Sport Sci & Phys Educ, Penafiel, Portugal; [Marinho, Daniel A.] Univ Beira Interior, Dept Sport Sci, Covilha, Portugal; [Morais, Jorge E.] Polytech Inst Braganca, Dept Sport Sci, Braganca, Portugal; [Morais, Jorge E.] Univ Beira Interior, Res Ctr Sports Hlth & Human Dev CIDESD, Covilha, Portugal								10							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000678909100001	34	Article; Article		
J	Saito, Akira; Okada, Kyoji; Shibata, Kazuyuki; Sato, Hiromichi; Kamada, Tetsuaki								High elasticity of the flexor carpi ulnaris and pronator teres muscles is associated with medial elbow injuries in youth baseball players								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				50	5			440	447		10.1080/00913847.2021.1954861			SEP 3 2022	2022	Objectives The purpose of the present study was to measure the elasticities of the forearm flexor-pronator muscles in youth baseball players and examine their relationships with medial elbow injuries. Methods We examined the strain ratios (SR) of the flexor digitorum superficialis (FDS), flexor carpi ulnaris (FCU), and pronator teres (PT) in 89 youth baseball players with medial epicondylar fragmentation (injury group) and in 142 healthy baseball players (control group). An index of muscle elasticity was determined using ultrasound strain elastography. The SR of each muscles was compared between the injury and control groups, and the SR of the both side arms was compared within group. Moreover, multivariable logistic regression analyses were conducted to examine the association of forearm muscle elasticity with medial elbow injuries. Results The SR of the FCU and PT of the throwing arm were significantly higher in the injury group than in the control group (both P < .001). In the injury group, the SR of the FCU was higher in the throwing arm than in the non-throwing arm (P < .001), but no difference was noted for the PT. Multivariable logistic regression analyses showed that a 0.1 increase of the SR of the FCU of the throwing arm (odds ratio [OR] 1.30, 95% confidence interval [CI] 1.14-1.48) and PT of the throwing arm (OR 1.41, 95% CI 1.19-1.67) and the non-throwing arm (OR 1.31, 95% CI 1.12-1.54) was significantly associated with an increased prevalence of medial elbow injuries. Conclusion High elasticities of the FCU of the throwing arm and PT of both the arms were observed in individuals with medial elbow injuries, and were associated with increased prevalence of medial elbow injuries. These findings may be characteristic of medial elbow injuries in youth baseball players.		[Saito, Akira; Okada, Kyoji] Akita Univ, Grad Sch Hlth Sci, Dept Phys Therapy, 1-1-1 Hondo, Akita 0108543, Japan; [Shibata, Kazuyuki] Akita City Hosp, Dept Rehabil, Akita, Japan; [Sato, Hiromichi; Kamada, Tetsuaki] Akita Kousei Med Ctr, Dept Rehabil, Akita, Japan; [Saito, Akira] Akita Univ, Grad Sch Hlth Sci, Dept Phys Therapy, 1-1-1 Hondo, Akita 0108543, Japan								9							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000675314000001	40	Article; Article		
J	Matomaki, Pekka; Rantila, Aapo								Does periodization work? Athletes perform better in major events than in minor competitions								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	2			430	436	17479541211031817	10.1177/17479541211031817			APR 2022	2022	Previous studies on periodization have led to the view that most athletes fail to peak at major events. These conclusions might be based on definitions of "peak performance" that are too narrow. In this study, a track and field athlete was defined as succeeding in a competition if their outcome was within the acceptable range from the best result of the season. The data are from seven championship finals and semifinals together with 42 Diamond League competitions from the 2010s, altogether 7,087 individual results. All field events and running events up to 400 m were included. The majority of athletes succeeded in major events (67.0% in sprint and 57.5% in field events). Overall, championship finals elicit success rates that are more than 70% higher than the basic level achieved in Diamond League competitions (p < 0.001). Success rates were systematically higher (over 60% higher) for the top three versus other competitors in every race (p < 0.001). When an acceptable range is adopted for the definition of what a successful result is, the majority of athletes manage to peak at the most important competitions. In addition, finishing in the top three in championship finals typically requires a peak performance.		[Matomaki, Pekka; Rantila, Aapo] Univ Jyvaskyla, Fac Sport & Hlth Sci, Biol Phys Act, POB 35, Jyvaskyla, Finland; [Matomaki, Pekka] Univ Jyvaskyla, Fac Sport & Hlth Sci, Biol Phys Act, POB 35, Jyvaskyla, Finland								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000676910200001	34	Article; Article		
J	Singh, Utkarsh; Ramachandran, Akhilesh Kumar; Baxter, Brett A.; Allen, Sam J.								The correlation of force-velocity-power relationship of a whole-body movement with 20 m and 60 m sprint performance								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	10			1566	1577		10.1080/14763141.2021.1951344			OCT 2 2024	2024	Sprinting ability is important for successful performance in sports. The aim of this study was to examine the correlation between force-velocity-power relationship of a whole-body movement and sprint performance. Twelve male participants performed maximal squat jumps with additional loads ranging from 0% to 100% body weight to obtain force-velocity profiles. The mean force and velocity were calculated during the push-off phase for each jump, which resulted in a force-velocity curve. The theoretical maximal force (F-0), theoretical maximal velocity (V-0) and theoretical maximum power (P-0) were computed via extrapolation of the force and velocity data. In the second session, participants performed two 60 m sprints and the time to cover 20 m (t(20)), time to cover 60 m (t(60)), and maximum sprint velocity (V-max) were calculated from the best 60 m trial. Correlation analyses revealed strong and significant correlations between V-0 and t(20) (r = -0.60), V-0 and t(60) (r = -0.60), P-0 and t(20) (r = -0.75) and P-0 and t(60) (r = -0.78). Multiple linear regression indicated that P-0 explained 56%, 61% and 60% of the variability in t(20), t(60) and V-max, respectively. Our results emphasise the importance of developing power production capabilities to improve sprint performance.		[Singh, Utkarsh; Ramachandran, Akhilesh Kumar; Allen, Sam J.] Loughborough Univ, Sch Sport Exercise & Hlth Sci, Loughborough, Leics, England; [Baxter, Brett A.] Univ Northampton, Ctr Phys Act & Life Sci, Northampton, England; [Singh, Utkarsh] Loughborough Univ, Sch Sport Exercise & Hlth Sci, Loughborough, Leics, England								6							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000677845100001	42	Article; Article		
J	Kanwar, Kiran D.; Cannon, Jordan; Nichols, David L.; Salem, George J.; Mann, Mark D.								Injury risk-factor differences between two golf swing styles: a biomechanical analysis of the lumbar spine, hip and knee								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	10			1552	1565		10.1080/14763141.2021.1945672			OCT 2 2024	2024	The golf swing has been associated with mechanical injury risk factors at many joints. One swing, the Minimalist Golf Swing, was hypothesised to reduce lumbar spine, lead hip, and lead knee ranges of motion and peak net joint moments, while affecting swing performance, compared to golfers' existing swings. Existing and MGS swings of 15 golfers with handicaps ranging from +2 to -20 were compared. During MGS downswing, golfers had 18.3% less lumbar spine transverse plane ROM, 40.7 and 41.8% less lead hip sagittal and frontal plane ROM, and 39.2% less lead knee sagittal plane ROM. MGS reduced lead hip extensor, abductor, and internal rotator moments by 17.8, 19.7 and 43%, while lead knee extensor, abductor, adductor and external rotator moments were reduced by 24.1, 26.6, 37 and 68.8% respectively. With MGS, club approach was 2 degrees shallower, path 4 degrees more in-to-out and speed 2 m/s slower. MGS reduced certain joint ROM and moments that are linked to injury risk factors, while influencing club impact factors with varying effect. Most golf injuries are from overuse, so reduced loads per cycle with MGS may extend the healthy life of joints, and permit golfers to play injury-free for more years.		[Kanwar, Kiran D.; Nichols, David L.; Mann, Mark D.] Texas Womans Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Denton, TX 76204 USA; [Kanwar, Kiran D.] Stanton Univ, Golf Dept, Garden Grove, CA 92844 USA; [Cannon, Jordan; Salem, George J.] Univ Southern Calif, Musculoskeletal Biomech Res Lab, Div Biokinesiol & Phys Therapy, Los Angeles, CA 90007 USA; [Kanwar, Kiran D.] Texas Womans Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Denton, TX 76204 USA; [Kanwar, Kiran D.] Stanton Univ, Golf Dept, Garden Grove, CA 92844 USA								5							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000674797500001	63	Article; Article		
J	O'Keeffe, Sinead; Cheilleachair, Niamh Ni; Campbell, Mark; O'Connor, Siobhan								Barriers and Facilitators to Mental Health Help-Seeking in Elite Gaelic Footballers Post-Injury: A Qualitative Study								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				93	3			488	503		10.1080/02701367.2020.1865517			JUL 3 2022	2022	Purpose: Injury can exacerbate mental health issues in athletes. However, the prevalence of mental health issues is not equivalent to the rate of professional help-seeking, with reluctance to seek-help acknowledged as one of the greatest obstacles in efficient management of mental health issues. The current study aimed to examine perceived barriers and facilitators to professional mental health help-seeking in elite male and female Gaelic footballers post-injury. Methods: Male (n = 14) and female (n = 12) elite Gaelic footballers, with a history of moderate or severe injury, were recruited to participate in a focus group. Group discussions began with a written task where participants noted perceived barriers to help-seeking followed by a group discussion of these barriers. Following discussion, participants ranked identified barriers in order of those perceived as most important in stopping a player from seeking help when experiencing mental health issues post-injury. All three tasks were repeated for help-seeking facilitators. Focus groups were audiotaped, transcribed and thematically analyzed. Results: Lack of education, stigma, negative attitudes to help-seeking and accessibility issues were identified as key barriers to help-seeking among elite Gaelic footballers. Education, the attitudes and actions of others and accessibility were perceived as factors facilitating help-seeking. Conclusions: Given the negative psychological responses that can accompany injury, there is a need for facilitation and encouragement of help-seeking among players experiencing mental health issues post-injury. Interventions for reducing the barriers to help-seeking identified in the current study are necessary.		[O'Keeffe, Sinead; Cheilleachair, Niamh Ni] Athlone Inst Technol, Athlone, Co Westmeath, Ireland; [Campbell, Mark] Univ Limerick, Limerick, Ireland; [O'Connor, Siobhan] Dublin City Univ, Dublin, Ireland; [O'Keeffe, Sinead] Athlone Inst Technol, Res Hub, M56, Athlone, Co Westmeath, Ireland								21							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000673218700001	73	Article; Article		
J	Gould, Sara J.; Cochrane, Graham D.; Johnson, Jarvis; Hebson, Camden L.; Kazamel, Mohamed								Orthostatic intolerance in post-concussion patients								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				50	5			429	434		10.1080/00913847.2021.1953357			SEP 3 2022	2022	Orthostatic intolerance (OI) following pediatric concussion is not well understood. Assessing the prevalence of concussion-related OI and how it compares to non-concussion-related OI will improve care for patients suffering with these symptoms. OBJECTIVE: We set out to describe concussion-related OI in adolescence, with particular emphasis on time to recovery and differences from non-concussion-related OI (including male vs. female prevalence). Retrospective chart reviews were completed on post-concussion patients endorsing symptoms of OI. The patients' sex, sport history, previous concussions, time since injury, and recovery time were analyzed and compared between males and females as well as against general OI statistics. Thirty-nine pediatric patients, representing 8.7% of all new patients referred to a specialized concussion clinic over a 13-month interval, were included in the chart review. Mean age of onset was 15.0 +/- 2.5 years and 18 (46%) were males. The median times from evaluation to symptom resolution were 120 days. Of 18 patients who completed head-up tilt table testing, 17 (94%) had orthostatic tachycardic response (>40 bpm heart rate increment). Post-concussive OI differs from other orthostatic intolerance etiologies, lacking a strong female predominance and exhibiting a shorter time course to recovery compared to other etiologies of OI (but longer recovery time compared to concussion patients in general). Clinical orthostatic vital signs may not be sensitive for diagnosing orthostatic intolerance in athletes, likely due to higher vagal tone and more efficient skeletal muscle pump.		[Gould, Sara J.] Univ Alabama Birmingham, Dept Orthoped Surg, Birmingham, AL USA; [Gould, Sara J.; Hebson, Camden L.] Childrens Alabama, Sports Med, Birmingham, AL USA; [Cochrane, Graham D.] UAB, Dept Phys Therapy, Birmingham, AL 35294 USA; [Johnson, Jarvis] UAB, Sch Med, Birmingham, AL USA; [Hebson, Camden L.] UAB, Div Pediat Cardiol, Dept Pediat, Birmingham, AL USA; [Kazamel, Mohamed] UAB, Dept Neurol, Birmingham, AL USA; [Cochrane, Graham D.] UAB, Dept Phys Therapy, Birmingham, AL 35294 USA								8							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000673823800001	29	Article; Article		
J	Jost, Peter-J.								Competitive Balance and the Away Goals Rule During Extra Time								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				22	7			823	864	15270025211019082	10.1177/15270025211019082			OCT 2021	2021	The Union of European Football Associations is currently reviewing the away goals rule during extra time in the knockout rounds of the Champions League. We model extra time as a two-stage contest. Assuming a home-field advantage we analyze the effect of the away goals rule on the competitive balance between teams. Our analysis suggests that the away goals rule levels the competitive imbalance introduced by the home-field advantage in the quarter and semi-finals and that in the round of 16 weaker teams should play first home and then away so that they benefit from the away goals rule during extra time.		[Jost, Peter-J.] WHU Otto Beisheim Sch Management, Org Theory, Burgpl 2, D-56179 Vallendar, Germany; [Jost, Peter-J.] WHU Otto Beisheim Sch Management, Org Theory, Burgpl 2, D-56179 Vallendar, Germany								9							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000675647800001	40	Article; Article		
J	Hayduk, Ted, III								Who Benefitted From the PyeongChang Olympic Announcement? Evidence From the South Korean Stock Market								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				23	1			39	75	15270025211030161	10.1177/15270025211030161			JAN 2022	2022	Understanding the market effects of Olympic host announcements is popular in academic research. Contrary to prior studies, announcing PyeongChang as the 2018 host had a positive effect on South Korea's Stock Market, with conservative estimates suggesting a peak of +3.8% during the 15 trading days post announcement (an increase equivalent to $34.962 billion). The degree to which firms benefitted varied by industry and lifecycle stage. Older and lower-growth financial and information technology firms saw larger abnormal returns compared to other firms. These findings suggest that academics and investors pay greater attention to idiosyncratic price adjustments to systematic market shocks.		[Hayduk, Ted, III] NYU, Tisch Inst Global Sport, New York, NY 10003 USA; [Hayduk, Ted, III] NYU, Preston Robert Tisch Inst Global Sport, 7 E 12th St, New York, NY 10003 USA								12							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000675165200001	62	Article; Article		
J	Callaghan, Samuel J.; Lockie, Robert G.; Tallent, Jamie; Chipchase, Robert F.; Andrews, Warren A.; Nimphius, Sophia								The effects of strength training upon front foot contact ground reaction forces and ball release speed among high-level cricket pace bowlers								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	9			1193	1209		10.1080/14763141.2021.1942540			SEP 1 2024	2024	The effects of an eight-week off-season strength training program upon lower-body strength, power, eccentric capacity, front foot contact (FFC) kinetics, and ball release speed (BRS) in pace bowlers were investigated. Ten elite-academy pace bowlers completed the intervention, and pre- and post-testing. Pre- and post-testing included: double (DLDL) and single leg (SLDL) drop landings; isometric mid-thigh pull (IMTP); countermovement jump; and pace bowling performance (two-over bowling spell measuring BRS and FFC kinetics). Changes from pre- to post-testing were assessed with paired sample t tests (p <= 0.01), effects sizes and statistical parametrical mapping. Post-testing revealed a significant decrease in peak normalised vertical force during DLDL and SLDL with large effects and a significant, moderate effect increase in IMTP. There was no significant changes in BRS. Concomitantly, neither discrete scalar (p= 0.15-0.58) nor vector field analysis kinetics during FFC indicated significant changes. No significant alterations in FFC kinetics may explain the lack of improvement in BRS (pre = 31.55 +/- 1.44 m/s; post = 31.79 +/- 1.33 m/s). This study indicated an eight-week strength training program can improve strength and eccentric capacity in pace bowlers, and these changes when developed in the absence of skills training neither improved nor decreased pace bowling performance.		[Callaghan, Samuel J.; Tallent, Jamie] St Marys Univ, Fac Sport Appl Hlth & Performance Sci SAHPS, Twickenham, England; [Lockie, Robert G.] Calif State Univ Fullerton, Dept Kinesiol, Fullerton, CA 92634 USA; [Chipchase, Robert F.; Andrews, Warren A.] Western Australian Cricket Assoc, High Performance Dept, Perth, WA, Australia; [Nimphius, Sophia] Edith Cowan Univ, Ctr Sports & Exercise Sci Res, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, Joondalup, Australia; [Nimphius, Sophia] Auckland Univ Technol, Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand, Auckland, New Zealand; [Callaghan, Samuel J.] St Marys Univ, Fac Sport Appl Hlth & Performance Sci SAHPS, Twickenham, England								8							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000673032700001	55	Article; Article		
J	Zeng, Jinshu; Xu, Jing; Xu, Yuanhong; Zhou, Wu; Xu, Fei								Effects of 4-week small-sided games vs. high-intensity interval training with changes of direction in female collegiate basketball players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	2			366	375	17479541211032739	10.1177/17479541211032739			APR 2022	2022	The aim of the study was to investigate the effects of 4-week small-sided games (SSG) and high-intensity interval training with changes of direction (HIT-COD) on physical performance and specific technical skills in female collegiate basketball players. Nineteen players were divided into SSG (n = 9) and HIT-COD (n = 10) groups, that performed either SSG or HIT-COD three times per week for 4 weeks during the pre-season. Players' heart rate (HR) and perceived exertion responses (RPE) were assessed during the intervention. Before and after the intervention period, performances were assessed with 30-15 intermittent fitness test (30-15(IFT)), repeated sprint ability (RSA) test, modified agility T-test (MAT), countermovement jump (CMJ), 20-m sprint, shooting accuracy test, 1 min shooting test, passing test, defensive movement test and control dribble test. Both training interventions led to similar physiological and perceived exertion responses, showing no significant differences in HR (P = .49, d = 0.2) and RPE (P = .77, d = 0.1) between groups. Significant improvements were observed in 30-15(IFT) (SSG: 4.1%, d = 1.5; HIT-COD: 4.2%, d = 1.7), RSA(mean) (SSG: -2.2%, d = 1.0; HIT-COD: -1.9%, d = 1.0), RSA(best) (SSG: -2.0%, d = 0.9; HIT-COD: -2.1%, d = 1.1), MAT (SSG: -7.2%, d = 1.7; HIT-COD: 5.7%, d = 1.5), defensive movement test (SSG: -5.1%, d = 2.1; HIT-COD: -5.8%, d = 1.8) and control dribble test (SSG: -3.4%, d = 1.0; HIT-COD: -2.6%, d = 1.0). The only significant group x time interaction was found (P = .032, eta(2)(p) = 0.24), with SSG improving 1 min shooting (22.4%, d = 1.0) and HIT-COD performing slightly worse (-2.6%, d = 0.1) after a 4-week intervention. The current study suggests that using SSG is more effective than HIT-COD for female collegiate basketball players in pre-season, since SSG improves physical performance and basketball-specific movements as well as shooting abilities after a 4-week intervention.		[Zeng, Jinshu; Xu, Jing; Xu, Yuanhong; Zhou, Wu; Xu, Fei] Hangzhou Normal Univ, Sch Phys Educ & Hlth, 2318 Yuhangtang Rd, Hangzhou, Peoples R China; [Xu, Fei] Hangzhou Normal Univ, Sch Phys Educ & Hlth, 2318 Yuhangtang Rd, Hangzhou, Peoples R China								31							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000673728000001	52	Article; Article		
J	Sotiropoulos, Konstantinos; Drikos, Sotirios; Barzouka, Karolina								Variations in attack patterns between female and male opposite players in top-level volleyball								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	2			400	411	17479541211030633	10.1177/17479541211030633			APR 2022	2022	In volleyball, the opposite player is the most requested hitter since she/he is the player with a higher probability of successfully carrying out attacks. The main objective of this study was to analyze variables that predicted attack effectiveness, in top-level teams depending on gender. Inferential analysis and multinomial logistic regression were applied to analyze 1512 attacks of men and women opposite players from 79 sets of the six top-ranked teams in the Men and Women 2018 World Championships. The analysis revealed that in female volleyball to increase the odds for a winning attack from the opposite player, teams have to pass the ball more accurately, setters have to set in a faster tempo and opposites avoid off-speed attack and spike in a diagonal direction from position 2. On the contrary, in male volleyball the odds for a winning attack from the opposite player are increased when male setters set accurate to the pre-agreement point on the net independent of the quality of the previous pass, opposite players hit in parallel and volleyball coaches select proper line-up and process tactical substitutions to increase the number of rotations with an opposite player in the offensive zone.		[Sotiropoulos, Konstantinos; Drikos, Sotirios; Barzouka, Karolina] Natl Kapodistrian Univ Athens, Sch Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Ethnikis Antistasis 41, Athens 17237, Greece; [Drikos, Sotirios] Natl Kapodistrian Univ Athens, Sch Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Ethnikis Antistasis 41, Athens 17237, Greece								17							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000673746200001	40	Article; Article		
J	Pedro Fuentes, Juan; Pulido, Silvia; Morales, Noemi; Menayo, Ruperto								Massed and distributed practice on learning the forehand shot in tennis								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	2			318	324	17479541211028503	10.1177/17479541211028503			APR 2022	2022	Purpose This study aims to determine the effect of the distribution of practice on learning the forehand shot in tennis. Method Twenty-four beginner tennis players participated in the study (13 males and 11 female; 8.63 +/- 0.92 years old). The players were separated after groups -massed practice (N = 12) and distributed practice (N = 12). Each group practiced the forehand shot for 12 sessions, 4 series per session and 10 trials/series (6 weeks). The accuracy and efficacy were measured through one post-test and one retest, carried out 2 weeks after the last learning session. Results Significant improvements in accuracy between the pre-test and post-test (p=.004) and between pre-test and re-test (p=.006) were found in the massed practice group. Significant improvements in accuracy between the pre-test and post-test (p=.002) and between pre-test and re-test (p=.001) were found in the distributed practice group. No significant differences were found between groups but there was a favourable trend toward better learning in both, with improved accuracy and efficacy. Conclusion The motor learning through the distribution of practice among children has been noted, with a significant improvement in the skill acquisition of the forehand shot in the two groups. The results are useful because they clear up the doubts about how to plan the teaching of this stroke in tennis, confirming the suitability of carrying out learning programs based on massed and distributed practice.		[Pedro Fuentes, Juan; Pulido, Silvia; Morales, Noemi] Extremadura Univ, Phys Act & Sport Sci Fac, Caceres, Spain; [Menayo, Ruperto] Extremadura Univ, Fac Educ, Badajoz, Spain; [Menayo, Ruperto] Fac Educ, Avda Univ S-N, Badajoz 06006, Extremadura, Spain								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000673790600001	31	Article; Article		
J	Prochnow, Tyler M.; Patterson, Megan S.; Meyer, Andrew R.; Meyer, M. Renee Umstattd								Sport Participation Associations With Child Friend Selection and Physical Activity While at Summer Care Programs								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				93	3			479	487		10.1080/02701367.2020.1864261			JUL 3 2022	2022	Child physical activity (PA) declines during summer reducing PA-related health benefits. Summer care programs (e.g., Boys & Girls Clubs) can promote active play while providing opportunities for friendships. Sport participation is a positive influence on PA and social development. Purpose: This article investigates the role of sport participation in PA attainment, perceived skill competency, and social connection at a summer care program. Methods: Children self-reported PA, sport participation, and the names of up to five peers whom they played with most at the program at the start (T1; n = 100; M age = 9.94 years; SD = 1.34; 47% male) and end (T2; n = 77; M age = 9.83 years; SD = 1.46; 51% male) of summer. Network autocorrelation models were used to determine if child sport participation was significantly associated with those they played with at the program. Results:Children who reported sport participation reported significantly more PA than those who did not at T1, but not T2. Child sport participation was significantly related to that of the peers they said they spent time with while at the program for T1 (beta = 0.07, p < .01), but not T2 (beta = 0.06, p = .10). Additionally, PA (beta = 0.08, p < .01; beta = 0.07, p = .01) and skill competency (beta = 0.11, p = .02; beta = 0.15, p < .01) were significantly associated with sport participation at both time points. While sports participation was a key factor in child friendships at the start of summer, the program allowed children, regardless of sport participation, to become friends outside of sports. Conclusions: These results suggest summer care programs promote PA through play and provide opportunities for children to facilitate friendships regardless of sport participation.		[Prochnow, Tyler M.; Meyer, Andrew R.; Meyer, M. Renee Umstattd] Baylor Univ, One Bear Pl 97313, Waco, TX 76798 USA; [Patterson, Megan S.] Texas A&M Univ, College Stn, TX 77843 USA; [Prochnow, Tyler M.] Baylor Univ, One Bear Pl 97313, Waco, TX 76798 USA								9							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000672194300001	57	Article; Article		
J	Aygun, Cihan; Cakir-Atabek, Hayriye								Alternative Model for Physical Activity: Active Video Games Lead to High Physiological Responses								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				93	3			447	456		10.1080/02701367.2020.1864258			JUL 3 2022	2022	Purpose: This study aimed to i) investigate the physiological and perceptual responses to two different active video games (AVGs), ii) compare the physiological and perceptual responses to AVGs with those encountered during classic exercise and daily sedentary routines, and iii) compare the examined variables between the sexes. Methods: Forty-three (n = 22 male, n = 21 female) volunteers participated in the study and were tested in five different conditions (resting, watching television (TV), brisk walking, AVG dancing, and AVG fighting). Oxygen consumption (VO2) and heart rate (HR) were measured continuously, whereas energy expenditure (EE) and metabolic equivalent (MET) were calculated. Rating of perceived exertion (RPE) and enjoyment scores were recorded. Results: AVG dancing and AVG fighting significantly increased VO2, MET, EE, and HR compared with brisk walking, resting, and watching TV. Comparing with brisk walking the AVG dancing yielded similar RPE and higher enjoyment scores. However, the highest physiological responses, RPE, and enjoyment scores were obtained during AVG fighting. There were significant sex x condition interactions for VO2, MET, EE, and HR. VO2, MET, and EE were significantly higher in males for all conditions, whereas HR was significantly higher in females. The mean EE values during AVG fighting and AVG dancing were 13.12 +/- 2.2 kcal.min(-1) and 9.69 +/- 2.0 kcal.min(-1), respectively in males, and 9.31 +/- 1.9 kcal.min(-1) and 7.07 +/- 1.3 kcal.min(-1), respectively in females. Conclusions: AVG dancing (MET >7) and AVG fighting (MET >9) are enjoyable, vigorous physical activities that can be recommended as an alternative home-based physical activity.		[Aygun, Cihan; Cakir-Atabek, Hayriye] Eskisehir Tech Univ, Eskisehir, Turkey; [Aygun, Cihan] Anadolu Univ, Eskisehir, Turkey; [Aygun, Cihan] Eskisehir Tech Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Coach Training, TR-26555 Eskisehir, Turkey								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000672213900001	42	Article; Article		
J	Post, Eric G.; Rosenthal, Michael D.; Pennock, Andrew T.; Rauh, Mitchell J.								Attitudes and beliefs of little league baseball parents regarding sport specialization and college scholarship availability								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				50	6			471	477		10.1080/00913847.2021.1949251			NOV 2 2022	2022	Objectives Previous studies of parents of adolescent athletes identified a belief among parents of the importance of early specialization for skill development. However, it is unclear if these attitudes and beliefs are also held among parents of baseball athletes, which is the second-most popular boy's sport in the United States. The purpose of this study was to describe the knowledge, attitudes, and beliefs of parents of Little League baseball players regarding sport specialization and college scholarships. Methods Two-hundred and forty-four parents of Little League baseball players (female parents: 60.7%, parent age: 41.1 +/- 6.2 years old, male children: 98.0%, child age: 9.5 +/- 1.6 years old) completed an anonymous online questionnaire regarding parent attitudes and beliefs on sport specialization and college scholarships. Results Most parents (72.4%) felt that specialization would increase their child's baseball ability either 'quite a bit' or 'a great deal.' Fewer than half of all parents (42.0%) reported that specialization was either 'quite a bit' or 'a great deal' of a problem. Parents underestimated the availability of Division I college baseball scholarship availability (median [IQR]: 5 [4-10]), compared to the actual value of 11.7 scholarships per Division I roster. Only 10.2% of parents (N = 25) reported that they believed it was 'somewhat' or 'very' likely that their child would receive a college baseball scholarship. Conclusion Further efforts are needed to understand parent attitudes and beliefs regarding sport specialization and college scholarships in various sports to better understand current trends in youth sport participation.		[Post, Eric G.] Indiana State Univ, Dept Appl Med & Rehabil, Terre Haute, IN 47809 USA; [Rosenthal, Michael D.] Univ Nebraska Med Ctr, Div Phys Therapy Educ, Omaha, NE USA; [Pennock, Andrew T.] Rady Childrens Hosp, San Diego, CA USA; [Rauh, Mitchell J.] San Diego State Univ, Sch Exercise & Nutr Sci, Doctor Phys Therapy Program, San Diego, CA 92182 USA; [Post, Eric G.] Indiana State Univ, 567 N 5th St, Terre Haute, IN 47809 USA								6							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000672219100001	34	Article; Article		
J	Mang, Zachary A.; Moriarty, Terence A.; Realzola, Rogelio A.; Millender, Desmond J.; Wells, Andrew D.; Houck, Jonathon M.; Bellissimo, Gabriella F.; Fennel, Zachary J.; Beam, Jason R.; Mermier, Christine M.; Amorim, Fabiano T.; Kravitz, Leonard								A Metabolic Profile of Peripheral Heart Action Training								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				93	2			412	422		10.1080/02701367.2020.1856315			APR 3 2022	2022	Purpose: Peripheral heart action (PHA) is a style of circuit training that alternates upper and lower body resistance exercises with minimal rest between sets. The purpose of this study was to compare the metabolic demands of PHA to traditional hypertrophy training (TRAD) and to provide between sex comparison for both types of resistance training (RT). Methods: Twenty resistance-trained individuals underwent two bouts of volume-load matched RT: PHA and TRAD. We measured oxygen uptake (VO2), heart rate (HR), blood lactate (BL) concentration, rating of perceived exertion (RPE), excess post-exercise oxygen consumption (EPOC), and duration of each session. Results: PHA elicited significantly greater %VO(2)max (p < .001), %HRmax (p < .001), RPE (p < .001), and EPOC (p < .001) compared to TRAD. PHA was also completed in less time (p < .001). Compared to TRAD, BL was significantly higher at mid-exercise (p < .001), post-exercise (p < .001), and 5-min post-exercise (p < .001) during PHA. There were no between-sex differences for BL at any time-point for TRAD. However, during PHA, BL was significantly higher for males at mid-exercise (p = .04), post-exercise (p = .02), and 5-min post-exercise (p = .002). No between-sex differences were detected for HR, VO2, RPE, or duration for either style of RT. Conclusions: PHA is a time-effective and metabolically demanding circuit that may lead to strength and cardiorespiratory adaptations. Males produced more BL than females during PHA, but not TRAD, suggesting that they incurred more metabolic stress during the bout of circuit training.		[Mang, Zachary A.; Moriarty, Terence A.; Realzola, Rogelio A.; Millender, Desmond J.; Wells, Andrew D.; Houck, Jonathon M.; Bellissimo, Gabriella F.; Fennel, Zachary J.; Mermier, Christine M.; Amorim, Fabiano T.; Kravitz, Leonard] Univ New Mexico, Albuquerque, NM 87106 USA; [Moriarty, Terence A.] Univ Northern Iowa, Cedar Falls, IA USA; [Beam, Jason R.] Santa Fe Community Coll, Santa Fe, NM USA; [Mang, Zachary A.] Univ New Mexico, Dept Hlth Exercise & Sport Sci, 1700 Lomas Blvd NE, Albuquerque, NM 87106 USA								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000672199700001	52	Article; Article		
J	Kouali, Despina; Hall, Craig; Divine, Alison; Pope, J. Paige								Motivation and Eudaimonic Well-Being in Athletes: A Self-Determination Theory Perspective								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				93	3			457	466		10.1080/02701367.2020.1864259			JUL 3 2022	2022	Purpose: Drawing from self-determination theory (SDT), the present study examined the relationship between motivation and eudaimonic well-being in the sport context. Method: The association between motivation and eudaimonic well-being was assessed using a latent variable model through Structural Equation Modeling (SEM). Three hundred ninety-nine athletes (M-age = 25.08, SD = 7.35) from 15 different individual and team sports completed a questionnaire package. Results: Results indicated that integrated and identified regulations positively predicted athletes' eudaimonic well-being. External regulation was also a positive predictor of eudaimonic well-being, while introjected regulation and amotivation negatively predicted athletes' eudaimonic well-being. Finally, athletes' intrinsic motivation did not significantly predict their eudaimonic well-being. Conclusions: Results highlight the complex link between different types of sport motivation and athletes' well-being.		[Kouali, Despina; Hall, Craig] Western Univ, London, ON, Canada; [Divine, Alison] Univ Leeds, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England; [Pope, J. Paige] Univ Lethbridge, Lethbridge, AB, Canada; [Kouali, Despina] Western Univ, Sch Kinesiol, 1151 Richmond Str, London, ON N6A 3K7, Canada								16							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000670801600001	62	Article; Article		
J	Leo, Francisco M.; Lopez-Gajardo, Miguel A.; Pulido, Juan J.; Gonzalez-Ponce, Inmaculada								Multilevel analysis of evolution of team process and their relation to performance in semi-professional soccer								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	2			334	345	17479541211029602	10.1177/17479541211029602			APR 2022	2022	The aim of the study was to examine the evolution of players' perception of group variables (leadership, motivational climate, cohesion, and collective efficacy) and to determine whether the intercept and growth trajectory differed as a function of whether expectations have or have not been met in a sample of semi-professional Spanish football players. The results show that the levels of the variables (except for autocratic leadership and coach-created ego climate) decrease over the season. Furthermore, the mean scores of the "fully meets expectations" group were significantly higher in positive leader characteristics, coach-created task climate, cohesion and collective efficacy. Also, rates of decline were significantly greater in the "does not meet expectations" group. The results indicate the importance of establishing reachable expectations by coaches and players because to achieve or to miss the expected goals can affect psychological group dynamics.		[Leo, Francisco M.] Univ Extremadura, Fac Teacher Training, Badajoz, Spain; [Lopez-Gajardo, Miguel A.; Pulido, Juan J.] Univ Extremadura, Fac Sport Sci, Badajoz, Spain; [Pulido, Juan J.] Univ Lisbon, Fac Human Kinet, Lisbon, Portugal; [Gonzalez-Ponce, Inmaculada] Univ Extremadura, Fac Educ, Av Elvas S-N, Badajoz 06071, Spain; [Gonzalez-Ponce, Inmaculada] Univ Extremadura, Fac Educ, Av Elvas S-N, Badajoz 06071, Spain								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000672914900001	38	Article; Article		
J	Cushman, Daniel M.; York, Elizabeth; Asay, Alexandra; Ross, Brendon; Teramoto, Masaru; McCormick, Zachary L.								Changes in clinical practice perceptions and mental health of sports medicine physicians due to the SARS-CoV-2 pandemic								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				50	5			419	428		10.1080/00913847.2021.1949252			SEP 3 2022	2022	Objective The SARS-CoV-2 pandemic has had an immense impact on healthcare, but little has been published on its impact on sports medicine physicians. This study aimed to assess the perceived impacts of the pandemic on practice changes, financial implications, and mental health of the physician members of the American Medical Society for Sports Medicine (AMSSM). Methods Online surveys were sent to physician members of the AMSSM, with questions asking about demographic information and personal associations to COVID-19. The main outcome measures included self-reported clinical practice volumes, visit types (telemedicine, face-to-face), Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ-4) scores, personal finances, clarity of practice guidelines, and personal protective equipment (PPE) availability. Results A total of 825 respondents completed the initial survey, with a subset completing follow-ups. In-person clinical and procedural volumes were reported to be reduced to just 17.9% and 13.7% of the pre-pandemic baseline volumes at the first survey (March 2020), but increased to 81.1% and 77.3% (August 2020), respectively. PHQ-4 anxiety subscores significantly decreased over time (p < 0.001); younger physicians and female physicians were more likely to have higher scores (p < 0.05). Reported physician income significantly increased over time (p < 0.05), and financial concerns steadily decreased (p < 0.001). The perception of having an adequate PPE significantly increased over the study (p < 0.001) but not for having clear practice guidelines (p > 0.05). Physicians have become increasingly aware of others testing positive for the virus, but not themselves or someone they live with. Conclusions Sports medicine physicians have been heavily impacted by the SARS-CoV-2 pandemic, with some recovery since it started. Sports medicine physicians should be aware of pandemic-related practice changes and resulting mental health and financial implications.		[Cushman, Daniel M.; York, Elizabeth; Asay, Alexandra; Teramoto, Masaru; McCormick, Zachary L.] Univ Utah, Div Phys Med & Rehabil, 590 Wakara Way, Salt Lake City, UT 84108 USA; [Asay, Alexandra] Univ Utah, Dept Orthopaed, Salt Lake City, UT 84108 USA; [Ross, Brendon] Univ Chicago, Dept Orthoped Surg & Rehabil Med, Chicago, IL 60637 USA; [Cushman, Daniel M.] Univ Utah, Div Phys Med & Rehabil, 590 Wakara Way, Salt Lake City, UT 84108 USA								0							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000669726700001	52	Article; Article		
J	Hovey, Sarah; Wang, Henry; Judge, Lawrence W.; Avedesian, Jason M.; Dickin, D. Clark								The effect of landing type on kinematics and kinetics during single-leg landings								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				20	5			543	559		10.1080/14763141.2019.1582690			JUL 4 2021	2021	Landing research attempts to simulate sport activities; however, movements performed pre- or post-landing may alter landing mechanics and injury risk. Therefore, this study compared lower extremity biomechanics of single-leg drop landings, drop jump (DJ) and countermovement jump (CMJ) landings as well as sex-related differences. A total of 25 recreational athletes (11 females) performed landings from 80% maximum jump height with impact forces, kinematics and joint moments measured during each landing. Altered kinematic and kinetic variables were revealed when a jump was performed pre- or post-landing. CMJ landings were generally performed with a more extended lower extremity at ground contact, less hip and knee motion in the frontal and transverse planes and larger joint moments compared to other landings (p < 0.01). The DJ landings demonstrated greater joint flexion and large frontal and transverse plane motion, paired with decreased impact forces and joint moments (p < 0.05). Across all landings, males displayed larger impact forces and joint moments (p < 0.01), and females demonstrated frontal plane kinematics associated with increased injury risk (p < 0.05). These findings suggest that activities surrounding the landing directly impact landing mechanics and overall risk. Therefore, matching landing type to sport-specific activities increases the efficacy of assessing injury risk during training or rehabilitation programmes.		[Hovey, Sarah; Wang, Henry; Avedesian, Jason M.; Dickin, D. Clark] Ball State Univ, Coll Hlth, Biomech Lab, Muncie, IN 47306 USA; [Hovey, Sarah; Wang, Henry; Judge, Lawrence W.; Avedesian, Jason M.; Dickin, D. Clark] Ball State Univ, Sch Kinesiol, Muncie, IN 47306 USA; [Dickin, D. Clark] Ball State Univ, Coll Hlth, Biomech Lab, Muncie, IN 47306 USA; [Dickin, D. Clark] Ball State Univ, Sch Kinesiol, Muncie, IN 47306 USA								26							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000672406600001	36	Article; Article		
J	Abdollahi, Sajjad; Sheikhhoseini, Rahman								Sport-related injuries in Iranian basketball players: evidence from a retrospective epidemiologic study (2019-20)								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				50	5			406	413		10.1080/00913847.2021.1947737			SEP 3 2022	2022	Objectives Basketball is a contact sport with complex movements that include jumps, turns, and changes in direction, which cause frequent musculoskeletal injuries in all regions of the body. Also, injury patterns among athletes, particularly basketball players, continue to evolve and change. The current retrospective epidemiologic study aimed to investigate the incidence, severity, and sports-related risk factors of injuries in Iranian basketball players from 2019 to 2020. Methods Using the Information Retrospective Injury Questionnaire (online version), data on basketball-related injuries were collected retrospectively for 204 basketball players of the Iranian league (professional super league and first-division league) during the 2019/2020 season. Results A total of 628 injuries were reported, which was equivalent to 6.07 injuries/1000 h. The ankle was the location of most injuries (n = 116 or 26.9%; overuse injuries (n = 40 or 20.3%)), followed by lower back/pelvis injuries (acute injury n = 67 (15.5%) and overuse injuries (n = 23; 11.6%)), knee injuries (acute injury n = 62 (15.7%) and overuse injuries (n = 31 (14.3%)), wrist/fingers injuries (acute injury (n = 85 (13.4%)) and overuse injuries (n = 8; 4.0%)), and shin/calf injuries (acute injury (n = 35; 8.1%) and overuse injuries (n = 28; 14.2%)). Mean time loss in first-division league players was much higher than professional super league players (7.84/1000 h exposure vs. 4.30/1000 h exposure), respectively. Conclusion The ankle sprain was the most common injury in our study. Lower back/pelvis injuries had the longest time loss. Injury was more frequent among first-division league players than those in the professional super league. Injuries during practice were notably more frequent than during competition with different patterns of injuries.		[Abdollahi, Sajjad; Sheikhhoseini, Rahman] Allameh Tabatabai Univ, Fac Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Dept Correct Exercise & Sport Injury, Tehran, Iran; [Sheikhhoseini, Rahman] Allameh Tabatabai Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Western Azadi Sport Complex Blvd,Hakim Highway, Tehran, Iran								7							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000669129000001	45	Article; Article		
J	Schoeffl, Isabelle; Jasinski, Dominik; Ehrlich, Benedikt; Dittrich, Sven; Schoeffl, Volker								Outdoor Uphill Exercise Testing for Trail Runners, a More Suitable Method?								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				79	1			123	133		10.2478/hukin-2021-0066			JUL 2021	2021	There is extensive knowledge about uphill running on a treadmill, although paucity regarding the influence of uphill trail running on exercise capacity in runners. The purpose of this study was to compare an uphill field test with a treadmill test with 1% inclination especially considering cardiopulmonary exercise variables. The difference in those tests between a group of trail runners and a group of road runners was tested for establishing a test specifically for trail runners. Ten male endurance road runners and ten male trail runners performed one maximal incremental treadmill test with 1% inclination and a maximal incremental field test on a hill at 16% inclination which they were instructed to run up four times for three minutes, each time with a higher pace. A mobile cardiopulmonary exercise testing unit was used to measure ventilation. There were no significant differences between trail runners and road runners. The equivalence factor was comparable between both groups. VO2peak was comparable for both test protocols. However, there was a significant difference between the two test protocols regarding lactate concentration, the respiratory exchange ratio, running cost, heart rate, Breathing reserve, and O-2pulse. The greater lactate concentration and running cost recorded uphill indicate a higher energy demand during trail running than level road running.		[Schoeffl, Isabelle; Dittrich, Sven] Univ Hosp Erlangen Nuremberg, Dept Pediat Cardiol, Loschgestr 15, D-91054 Erlangen, Germany; [Schoeffl, Isabelle; Schoeffl, Volker] Leeds Beckett Univ, Sch Clin & Appl Sci, Leeds LS1 3HE, W Yorkshire, England; [Jasinski, Dominik] Klinikum Bamberg, Dept Cardiol, Buger Str 80, D-90649 Bamberg, Germany; [Ehrlich, Benedikt; Schoeffl, Volker] Klinikum Bamberg, Dept Orthoped & Trauma Surg, Sect Sportsmed & Sports Orthopaed, Buger Str 80, D-90649 Bamberg, Germany; [Schoeffl, Isabelle] Univ Hosp Erlangen Nuremberg, Dept Pediat Cardiol, Loschgestr 15, D-91054 Erlangen, Germany; [Schoeffl, Isabelle] Leeds Beckett Univ, Sch Clin & Appl Sci, Leeds LS1 3HE, W Yorkshire, England								10							Sport Sciences	WOS:000680047100011	38	Article; Article		
J	Filter, Alberto; Beltran-Garrido, Vicente; Dos'Santos, Thomas; Romero-Rodriguez, Daniel; Requena, Bernardo; Loturco, Irineu; Madruga-Parera, Marc								The Relationship Between Performance and Asymmetries in Different Multidirectional Sprint Tests in Soccer Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				79	1			155	164		10.2478/hukin-2021-0069			JUL 2021	2021	Practitioners usually include change of direction (COD) and linear speed measurements in the testing batteries of soccer players; however, despite being a commonly occurring action, curve sprint (CS) ability is rarely assessed in soccer. The aims of this study were to analyze the association between linear sprint, CS, and COD speed performances, and compare the association and direction of asymmetries between these skills. Thirty-three male soccer players performed linear sprint (17 m), CS (17 m), and COD-90((sic)) speed tests (COD [8.5 + 8.5 m]). Our main findings were (a) a large relationship between linear and multidirectional tasks (COD-90((sic)) and CS tests) (r = from 0.6 to 0.64, p < 0.05), (b) a moderate relationship between CS and COD-90((sic)) tests (r = from 0.33 to 0.41, p < 0.05), with a certain opposite tendency (higher relationships between opposing directions [Curve(LEFT) - CODRIGHT; r = 0.41] than between equal directions [Curve(LEFT )- CODLEFT; r= 0.33]), and (c) no relationship (p > 0.05) between COD and CS asymmetries, with opposing directional dominance in similar to 70% of players (e.g., curve left and COD right dominance). These results indicate that performance in linear sprints is strongly related to performance in multidirectional trajectories, whereas CS and COD-90((sic)) seem to be more independent actions. Additionally, the direction of asymmetry or dominance is generally opposite between the non-linear tasks measured.		[Filter, Alberto; Dos'Santos, Thomas; Requena, Bernardo; Loturco, Irineu] FSI Sport Res Lab, Granada, Spain; [Filter, Alberto] Univ Pablo Olavide, Hlth & Sport CTS 948, Res Grp Phys Act, Seville, Spain; [Beltran-Garrido, Vicente] Rovira & Virgili Univ, EUSES Hlth & Sport Sci Sch, Tarragona, Spain; [Dos'Santos, Thomas] Manchester Metropolitan Univ, Musculoskeletal Sci & Sports Med Res Ctr, Dept Sport & Exercise Sci, Manchester, Lancs, England; [Romero-Rodriguez, Daniel; Madruga-Parera, Marc] Sport Performance Area, FC Barcelona First Team, Barcelona, Spain; [Romero-Rodriguez, Daniel] Univ Int Catalunya, Phys Therapy Dept, Barcelona, Spain; [Loturco, Irineu] NAR Nucleus High Performance Sport, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Loturco, Irineu] Univ Fed Sao Paulo, Dept Human Movement Sci, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Loturco, Irineu] Univ South Wales, Pontypridd, M Glam, Wales; [Madruga-Parera, Marc] ReQ Return Play & Sports Training Ctr, Barcelona, Spain; [Madruga-Parera, Marc] Univ Girona, Univ Sch Hlth & Sport EUSES, Girona, Spain; [Filter, Alberto] FSI Sport Res Lab, Granada, Spain; [Filter, Alberto] Univ Pablo Olavide, Hlth & Sport CTS 948, Res Grp Phys Act, Seville, Spain								15							Sport Sciences	WOS:000680047100014	35	Article; Article		
J	Isla, Elena; Romero-Moraleda, Blanca; Moya, Jose Maria; Esparza-Ros, Francisco; Mallo, Javier								Effects of a Neuromuscular Warm-Up Program in Youth Female Soccer Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				79	1			29	40		10.2478/hukin-2021-008029			JUL 2021	2021	The protective effects of different warm-up injury prevention routines in youth female soccer players have been demonstrated in the literature, however, there is a paucity of information regarding the effects that these kinds of programs have on soccer-specific physical performance variables. The purpose of this study was to assess the effectiveness of a 12-week neuromuscular warm-up program on physical performance in youth female soccer players. Players (age: 13.94 +/- 0.82 years) were divided into two groups. One group performed a neuromuscular activation program (n = 21) twice per week whereas the other group (control, n = 17) continued with their habitual warm-up routine for the same duration. Both groups of players performed strength, jumping and balance tests before and after the intervention period. Substantially greater improvements were detected in the mean velocity for the squat (p < 0.001; Effect Size = 0.95) and the hip thrust (p < 0.001; Effect Size = 0.51) in the experimental group in comparison to the control group. In addition, after the intervention period players in the experimental group showed an increase in the jumping height in the unloaded double-leg and single-leg counter-movement jumps (p = 0.003-0.012; Effect Size = 0.42-0.46). The results of this study provide evidence that a 12-week neuromuscular warm-up program can be effective to improve different physical performance variables in youth female soccer players.		[Isla, Elena] Catholic Univ Murcia, UCAM, Hlth Sci PhD Program, Campus Jeronimos 135, Murcia 30107, Spain; [Romero-Moraleda, Blanca; Moya, Jose Maria] Autonomous Univ Madrid, UAM, Dept Phys Educ Sport & Human Movement, Madrid 28049, Spain; [Esparza-Ros, Francisco] Catholic Univ Murcia, UCAM, Chair Sports Traumatol, Campus Jeronimos 135, Murcia 30107, Spain; [Mallo, Javier] Tech Univ Madrid, UPM, Madrid 28040, Spain; [Isla, Elena] Catholic Univ Murcia, UCAM, Hlth Sci PhD Program, Campus Jeronimos 135, Murcia 30107, Spain								9							Sport Sciences	WOS:000680047100003	41	Article; Article		
J	Aerenhouts, Dirk; Chapelle, Laurent; Clarys, Peter; Zinzen, Evert								Hydration Status in Adolescent Alpine Skiers During a Training Camp								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				79	1			55	63		10.2478/hukin-2021-006255			JUL 2021	2021	Maintaining euhydration is important for optimal health, performance and recovery, but can be challenging for alpine skiers when training in a relatively cold but dry environment. This study aimed to evaluate hydration status, fluid loss and fluid intake in adolescent alpine skiers during a training camp. Twelve athletes aged 14.3 +/- 0.9 years volunteered to participate in the study. Athletes resided at an altitude of 1600 m and trained between 1614 and 2164 m. During eight consecutive days, urine specific gravity was measured before each morning training session using a refractometer. Changes in body weight representing fluid loss and ad libitum fluid intake during each morning training session were assessed using a precision scale. Mean pre-training urine specific gravity remained stable throughout the training camp. Individual values ranged between 1.010 and 1.028 g/cm3 with 50 to 83% of athletes in a hypohydrated state (urine specific gravity >= 1.020 g/cm3). Mean training induced fluid loss remained stable throughout the training camp (range -420 to -587 g) with individual losses up to 1197 g (-3.5%). Fluid intake was significantly lower than fluid loss during each training session. To conclude, urine specific gravity values before training indicated insufficient daily fluid intake in more than half of the athletes. Furthermore, fluid intake during training in adolescent alpine skiers was suboptimal even when drinks were provided ad libitum. Coaches and athletes should be encouraged to carefully monitor hydration status and to ensure that alpine skiers drink sufficiently during and in between training sessions.		[Aerenhouts, Dirk; Chapelle, Laurent; Clarys, Peter; Zinzen, Evert] Vrije Univ Brussel, Dept Movement & Sport Sci, Fac Phys Educ & Physiotherapy, Brussels, Belgium; [Aerenhouts, Dirk] Vrije Univ Brussel, Dept Movement & Sport Sci, Pl Laan 2, B-1050 Brussels, Belgium								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:000680047100005	33	Article; Article		
J	Pena-Gonzalez, Ivan; Garcia-Calvo, Tomas; Cervello, Eduardo M.; Moya-Ramon, Manuel								The Coaches' Efficacy Expectations of Youth Soccer Players with Different Maturity Status and Physical Performance								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				79	1			289	299		10.2478/hukin-2021-0083289			JUL 2021	2021	This study aimed to report possible anthropometrical and physical performance differences between youth soccer players with different maturity status and to report the coaches' expectations, hypothesizing that coaches would expect more from players with advanced maturity. One hundred twenty-two (122) players completed a physical performance battery. Their maturity status was estimated and the coaches' efficacy expectations (CEEs) were assessed. Players with advanced maturation had better physical performance (F = 26.5-73.4; p < 0.01) and their CEEs for strength-related tasks were different according to the maturity status (F = 8.3-10.9; p < 0.01), but not for speed-related tests, nor for their general ability to play soccer. Normalized data showed significant differences between physical performance tests and their respective CEEs within each maturity group, especially in the Post-PHV group. This study confirms the physical advantages of players with advanced maturity while it shows controversial results of how maturation affects the coaches' perceptions and, indirectly, the coaches' identification and selection of talented players.		[Pena-Gonzalez, Ivan; Cervello, Eduardo M.; Moya-Ramon, Manuel] Miguel Hernandez Univ, Sport Sci Dept, Av Univ S-N, Elche 03205, Spain; [Garcia-Calvo, Tomas] Univ Extremadura, Fac Sport Sci, Av Univ S-N, Caceres 10003, Extremadura, Spain; [Moya-Ramon, Manuel] Miguel Hernandez Univ Elche, Sport Res Ctr, Dept Sport Sci, Av Univ S-N, Elche 03202, Spain								9							Sport Sciences	WOS:000680047100026	34	Article; Article		
J	Domaszewska, Katarzyna; Kry, Jakub; Podgorski, Tomasz; Nowak, Alicja; Ogurkowska, Malgorzata Barbara								The Impulse of Force as an Effective Indicator of Exercise Capacity in Competitive Rowers and Canoeists								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				79	1			87	99		10.2478/hukin-2021-0064			JUL 2021	2021	The aim of the research was to present the importance of measuring the impulse of force in assessing exercise capacity in professional rowers and canoeists rather than conducting traditional physiological and biochemical analyses. A group of 20 athletes (12 rowers and 8 canoeists) underwent progressive intensity exercise tests in two testing sessions (before and after a training period). During the tests, maximal aerobic capacity, impulse of strength, metabolic indices, and markers of skeletal muscle damage were assessed. Total testosterone, free testosterone, cortisol, interleukin 1,6, and creatine kinase were evaluated in venous blood. The impulse of force at the ventilatory threshold and at the maximum load was correlated with free testosterone and a total testosterone/cortisol ratio during exercise (p 0.05) and was negatively correlated with cortisol concentration (p 0.05) in the first testing session (before training intervention). Values were positively correlated with concentration of total testosterone, free testosterone and total testosterone/cortisol, and free testosterone/cortisol ratios during exercise (p 0.05) in the second testing session (after training intervention). Biochemical indices of overtraining were correlated with maximum oxygen uptake in each session and with the impulse of force at the ventilatory threshold and the maximum load of exercise. Thus, there is an indirect relationship between maximal aerobic capacity and the impulse of force. The measurement of the impulse of force can become a simple and effective method for evaluating the overall exercise capacity of rowers because of its relationship with indices of the load and changes in hormonal indices of anabolic and catabolic processes during exercise. Therefore, it may constitute a replacement for the traditional laboratory measurement of VO2m in highly qualified rowers and canoeists.		[Domaszewska, Katarzyna; Kry, Jakub; Podgorski, Tomasz] Poznan Univ Phys Educ, Dept Physiol & Biochem, Krolowej Jadwigi 27-39, PL-61871 Poznan, Poland; [Nowak, Alicja] Poznan Univ Phys Educ, Dept Hyg, Poznan, Poland; [Ogurkowska, Malgorzata Barbara] Poznan Univ Phys Educ, Dept Biomech, Poznan, Poland; [Domaszewska, Katarzyna] Poznan Univ Phys Educ, Dept Physiol & Biochem, Krolowej Jadwigi 27-39, PL-61871 Poznan, Poland								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:000680047100008	28	Article; Article		
J	Parim, Coskun; Gunes, Mehmet Samil; Buyuklu, Ali Hakan; Yildiz, Dogan								Prediction of Match Outcomes with Multivariate Statistical Methods for the Group Stage in the UEFA Champions League								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				79	1			197	209		10.2478/hukin-2021-0072			JUL 2021	2021	The aim of this study was to analyse the win, draw, and loss outcomes of soccer matches with situational variables and performance indicators. Data from group stage matches spanning the ten years between the 2010/2011 and 2019/2020 seasons in the European Champions League, were used. One-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) and Tukey HSD (honestly significant difference) tests indicated performance indicators which affected the outcome of matches. K-mean clustering, with statistically significant variables, categorized the quality of the opposition into three clusters: weak, balanced, and strong. Multidimensional scaling (MDS) and decision tree analysis were applied to each of these clusters, highlighting that performance indicators of the teams differed according to the quality of their opponent. Furthermore, according to the decision tree analysis, certain performance indicators, including scoring first and shots on target, increased the chances of winning regardless of the quality of the opposition. Finally, particular performance indicators increased the chance of winning, while others decreased this, in accordance with the quality of the opposition. These findings can help coaches develop different strategies, before or during the match, based on the quality of opponents, situational variables, and performance indicators.		[Parim, Coskun; Gunes, Mehmet Samil; Buyuklu, Ali Hakan; Yildiz, Dogan] Yildiz Tech Univ, Dept Stat, Istanbul, Turkey; [Parim, Coskun] Yildiz Tech Univ, Fac Art & Sci, Dept Stat, Davutpasa Campus, TR-34220 Esenler, Turkey								15							Sport Sciences	WOS:000680047100018	53	Article; Article		
J	Zhou, Changjing; Lago-Penas, Carlos; Lorenzo, Alberto; Gomez, Miguel-Angel								Long-Term Trend Analysis of Playing Styles in the Chinese Soccer Super League								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				79	1			237	247		10.2478/hukin-2021-0077237			JUL 2021	2021	The aim of this study was to identify playing styles adopted by teams in the Chinese Soccer Super League (CSL) and to investigate their evolution across a 6-season period. Data were collected from 1,429 CSL matches from 2012 to 2017 seasons using the Amisco system. Seventeen technical performance-related indicators and eleven physical performance-related indicators were included in the factor analysis (PCA: principal components analysis) in order to group them into performance factors (styles of play). Seven factors were obtained (eigenvalues greater than 1) and explained 74.44% of the total variance. Multivariate analyses of covariance (MANCOVA) were used to check differences among seven styles of play (team's ranking was used as a covariate) during the six seasons under study. The main findings showed that Factor 1 (high intensity play) and factor 3 (offensive actions) of CSL soccer increased substantially along the seasons. Coaches and sports scientists should take into consideration these performance trends when preparing training and controlling for matches.		[Zhou, Changjing] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Phys Educ & Sport Training, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Zhou, Changjing; Lorenzo, Alberto; Gomez, Miguel-Angel] Univ Politecn Madrid, Fac Phys Act & Sport Sci INEF, Madrid, Spain; [Lago-Penas, Carlos] Univ Vigo, Fac Educ & Sport Sci, Pontevedra, Spain; [Zhou, Changjing] Tech Univ Madrid, Fac Phys Act & Sport Sci, Calle Martin Fierro 7, Madrid 28040, Spain								23							Sport Sciences	WOS:000680047100022	36	Article; Article		
J	Maciejewska-Skrendo, Agnieszka; Mieszkowski, Jan; Kochanowicz, Andrzej; Niespodzinski, Bartosz; Cieszczyk, Pawel; Leznicka, Katarzyna; Leonska-Duniec, Agata; Kolbowicz, Marek; Kaczmarczyk, Mariusz; Piskorska, Elzbieta; Stankiewicz, Blazej; Stepniak, Robert; Mostowik, Aleksandra; Zawartka, Marek; Rzeszutko-Belzowska, Agata; Massidda, Myosotis; Calo, Carla Maria; Kemeryte-Riaubiene, Egle; Sawczuk, Marek								Does the <i>PPARA</i> Intron 7 Gene Variant (rs4253778) Influence Performance in Power/Strength-Oriented Athletes? A Case-Control Replication Study in three Cohorts of European Gymnasts								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				79	1			77	85		10.2478/hukin-2020-0060			JUL 2021	2021	Athletic ability is influenced by several exogenous and endogenous factors including genetic component. Hundreds of gene variants have been proposed as potential genetic markers associated with fitness-related phenotypes as well as elite-level athletic performance. Among others, variants within the PPARA gene that code for the peroxisome proliferator activated receptor a are of potential interest. The main goal of the present study was to determine PPARA (G/C, rs4253778) genotype distribution among a group of Polish, Lithuanian and Italian international level male gymnasts and to compare our findings with those of previous research on the frequency of the PPARA intron 7 C allele/CC genotype in power/strength-oriented athletes. A total of 464 male subjects (147 gymnasts and 317 controls) from Poland (n = 203), Italy (n = 146) and Lithuania (n = 107) participated in the study. No statistically significant differences were found in any of the analyzed cohorts. However, a significantly higher frequency of the CC genotype of the PPARA rs4253778 polymorphism was observed when all gymnasts were pooled and compared with pooled control using a recessive model of inheritance (OR = 3.33, 95% CI = 1.18-10, p = 0.022). It is important to know that we investigated a relatively small sample of male European gymnasts and our results are limited only to male participants. Thus, it is necessary to validate our results in larger cohorts of athletes of different ethnicities and also in female gymnasts to find out whether there is a gender effect.		[Maciejewska-Skrendo, Agnieszka; Mieszkowski, Jan; Kochanowicz, Andrzej; Cieszczyk, Pawel; Leznicka, Katarzyna; Leonska-Duniec, Agata; Kaczmarczyk, Mariusz; Sawczuk, Marek] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, Fac Phys Culture, Gdansk, Poland; [Niespodzinski, Bartosz; Stankiewicz, Blazej; Stepniak, Robert] Kazimierz Wielki Univ, Inst Phys Educ, Bydgoszcz, Poland; [Maciejewska-Skrendo, Agnieszka; Kolbowicz, Marek; Sawczuk, Marek] Univ Szczecin, Inst Phys Culture Sci, Szczecin, Poland; [Piskorska, Elzbieta] Nicolaus Copernicus Univ, Coll Med, Fac Pharm, Bydgoszcz, Poland; [Mostowik, Aleksandra] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Inst Sport Sci, Katowice, Poland; [Zawartka, Marek] Jagiellonian Univ, Inst Entrepreneurship, Krakow, Poland; [Zawartka, Marek] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Dept Sports & Tourism Management, Katowice, Poland; [Rzeszutko-Belzowska, Agata; Calo, Carla Maria] Univ Rzeszow, Inst Phys Culture Studies, Coll Med Sci, Rzeszow, Poland; [Massidda, Myosotis] Univ Cagliari, Dept Life & Environm Sci, Cagliari, Italy; [Kemeryte-Riaubiene, Egle] Vytautas Magnus Univ, Kaunas, Lithuania; [Maciejewska-Skrendo, Agnieszka] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, Fac Phys Culture, Dept Hlth & Nat Sci, Unit Mol Biol, Kazimierza Gorskiego 1, PL-80336 Gdansk, Poland								10							Sport Sciences	WOS:000680047100007	30	Article; Article		
J	Judge, Lawrence W.; Bellar, David M.; Popp, Jennifer K.; Craig, Bruce W.; Schoeff, Makenzie A.; Hoover, Donald L.; Fox, Brian; Kistler, Brandon M.; Al-Nawaiseh, Ali M.								Hydration to Maximize Performance And Recovery: Knowledge, Attitudes, and Behaviors Among Collegiate Track and Field Throwers								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				79	1			111	122		10.2478/hukin-2021-0065111			JUL 2021	2021	Hydration plays an important role in performance, injury prevention, and recovery for athletes engaged in competitive sports. Therefore, it is important that strength and conditioning coaches understand an athlete's hydration needs to prevent illness and enhance performance. The purpose of this study was to identify hydration knowledge, attitudes, and behaviors of collegiate track and field throwers, as well as identify barriers to hydration and sources of nutritional information. The Rehydration and Refueling in Collegiate Track and Field Throwers Survey was sent to 271 track and field thrower coaches with a request to forward the email to current track and field throwers. Pearson correlation coefficients were calculated regarding knowledge, attitude, and behavior scores among the participants in this sample. Differences among response patterns were assessed via Chi-square analysis. Alpha level was set at p = .05. Results demonstrated that 97.3% (n = 287) of respondents knew that dehydration would decrease performance, but 50.5% (n = 149) erroneously believed thirst was the best indicator of dehydration. Chi-square analysis demonstrated a significant difference in reported values between participants who intended to eat a performance-enhancing diet and those who consumed less fluid than recomended values (207 - 295 m)l in the 2-3 hours prior to competition (chi 2 = 10.87, p < .05). Pearson correlation coefficients demonstrated a large association between knowledge and behavior (r = .70, p < .05), a medium association between knowledge and attitude (r = .41, p < .05), and a small association between attitude and behavior (r = .21, p < .05). This suggests that strength and conditioning coaches and health staff need to educate and monitor hydration behaviors among collegiate track and field throwers to optimize performance.		[Judge, Lawrence W.; Craig, Bruce W.; Schoeff, Makenzie A.; Fox, Brian] Ball State Univ, Sch Kinesiol, Muncie, IN 47306 USA; [Bellar, David M.] Univ North Carolina Charlotte, Dept Kinesiol, Charlotte, NC USA; [Popp, Jennifer K.] Purdue Univ, Coll Hlth & Human Sci, Lafayette, IN USA; [Hoover, Donald L.] Western Michigan Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Kalamazoo, MI 49008 USA; [Kistler, Brandon M.] Ball State Univ, Dept Nutr & Hlth Sci, Muncie, IN 47306 USA; [Al-Nawaiseh, Ali M.] Hashemite Univ, Coll Phys Educ & sport Sci, Zarqa, Jordan; [Judge, Lawrence W.] Ball State Univ, 2000 W Univ Ave, Muncie, IN 47306 USA								23							Sport Sciences	WOS:000680047100010	24	Article; Article		
J	de Poli, Rodrigo Araujo Bonetti; Miyagi, Willian Eiji; Zagatto, Alessandro Moura								Anaerobic Capacity is Associated with Metabolic Contribution and Mechanical Output Measured During the Wingate Test								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				79	1			65	75		10.2478/hukin-2021-0063			JUL 2021	2021	The study aimed to investigate the relationship between anaerobic capacity, mechanical and anaerobic contribution during the 30-s Wingate Anaerobic Test (30sWAnT). After familiarization, fifteen, male recreational mountain biking practitioners underwent the following sequence of tests: 1) a graded exercise test to determine maximal oxygen uptake and associated intensity (iVO(2max)); 2 and 3) supramaximal exhaustive effort at 115% of iVO(2max) and 30sWAnT, performed randomly. The glycolytic and phosphagen pathways measured during the supramaximal effort were significantly correlated with peak power (r = 0.85; p < 0.01 and r = 0.57; p = 0.02, respectively), mean power (r = 0.78; p < 0.01 and r = 0.69; p < 0.01, respectively), and total work (r = 0.78; p < 0.01 and r = 0.69; p< 0.02, respectively) measured during the 30sWAnT. A significant correlation was also found between anaerobic capacity and peak power (r = 0.88; p < 0.01), mean power (r = 0.89; p < 0.01), and total work (r = 0.89; p < 0.01). Additionally, anaerobic capacity estimated during the supramaximal effort and the anaerobic contribution measured during the 30sWAnT were not different (p = 0.44) and presented significant good reliability and association (ICC = 0.84; p = 0.001) and good agreement, evidenced by the mean of differences and 95% limits of agreement near to zero (mean bias = 0.11). The results suggest that glycolytic and phosphagen capacity were associated with mechanical performance in the 30sWAnT. In addition, anaerobic contribution during the 30sWAnT seems to be valid for estimating anaerobic capacity in recreational mountain bike cyclists, as well as to estimate the glycolytic and phosphagen contributions.		[de Poli, Rodrigo Araujo Bonetti; Miyagi, Willian Eiji; Zagatto, Alessandro Moura] Sao Paulo State Univ UNESP, Lab Physiol & Sport Performance LAFIDE, Bauru, SP, Brazil; [de Poli, Rodrigo Araujo Bonetti; Miyagi, Willian Eiji; Zagatto, Alessandro Moura] Sao Paulo State Univ UNESP, Sch Sci, Postgrad Program Movement Sci, Bauru, SP, Brazil; [Zagatto, Alessandro Moura] Sao Paulo State Univ UNESP, Sch Sci, Lab Physiol & Sport Performance LAFIDE, Av Eng Luiz Edmundo Carrijo Coube 14-01, BR-17033360 Bauru, SP, Brazil; [Zagatto, Alessandro Moura] Sao Paulo State Univ UNESP, Sch Sci, Dept Phys Educ, Av Eng Luiz Edmundo Carrijo Coube 14-01, BR-17033360 Bauru, SP, Brazil								11							Sport Sciences	WOS:000680047100006	34	Article; Article		
J	Park, Youngho; Kwak, Dae Hee								Exploring the empirical evidence of social desirability bias (SDB) in sport consumer research								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				23	1			173	189		10.1108/IJSMS-03-2021-0055			JAN 11 2022	2022	Purpose The current study aims to provide a systematic approach to detecting and identifying social desirability bias (SDB) in survey data using controversial sponsorship as a research context. Design/methodology/approach We used an experimental approach to manipulate sponsorship situations (e.g. Beer sponsor vs Sports drink sponsor) that could potentially motivate respondents to under-report their perceptions toward the sponsor. By employing both procedural and statistical approaches, our evidence shows that responses toward the controversial sponsor were in fact contaminated by SDB. Findings The findings of the study provide methodological and practical implications for how sport marketing scholars and practitioners can identify, detect and control SDB in self-report data. Originality/value We argue that some survey research in sport marketing may be prone to SDB, but SDB has not received sufficient attention in sport marketing research. We emphasize the importance of detecting (and avoiding/controlling) SDB in sport management research.		[Park, Youngho; Kwak, Dae Hee] Univ Michigan, Sport Management, Ann Arbor, MI 48109 USA; [Park, Youngho] Univ Michigan, Sport Management, Ann Arbor, MI 48109 USA								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000669526500001	47	Article; Article		
J	Barchek, Amy R.; Dlugonski, Dee; Baez, Shelby E.; Hoch, Matthew C.; Hoch, Johanna								The relationship between injury-related fear and physical activity in people with a history of anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				50				201	205		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.05.010			JUL 2021	2021	Objective: The objective of this study was to examine the relationship between fear-avoidance beliefs and physical activity (PA) in people with a history of anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction (ACLR). Design: Modified cross-sectional. Setting: Research laboratory Participants: A total of 19 participants with a history of unilateral ACLR. Main Outcome Measures: Participants completed the Fear-Avoidance Beliefs Questionnaire (FABQ), a valid and reliable measure of FAB measured across two subscales (FABQ-Sport and FABQ-Physical Activity (PA)). Higher scores indicated greater FAB. The participants were provided a wearable accelerometer to wear on the wrist for one-week to capture PA outcomes (vertical counts per minute and average steps/day). Results: Weak, non-statistically significant positive correlations were identified between average daily steps per day (11,237.7 +/- 5667.7), FABQ-PA (6 +/- 8; r = 0.12, p = .63) and FABQ-S (8 +/- 15; r = 0.26, p = .35). Weak, non-statistically significant negative correlations were identified between vertical counts per minute (131.4 +/- 141.4) and FABQ-PA (r = -0.13, p = .59) and no relationship was observed with FABQ-Sports (r = 0.00, p = .98). Conclusions: There were no significant relationships between FABs and PA. The ability for individuals to remain physically active, with measurable levels of FABs (greater than 0), may be due to other psychological variables that should be further examined.& nbsp; (c) 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Barchek, Amy R.; Dlugonski, Dee; Hoch, Matthew C.; Hoch, Johanna] Univ Kentucky, Dept Athlet Training & Clin Nutr, 900 South Limestone St, Lexington, KY 40536 USA; [Baez, Shelby E.] Michigan State Univ, Dept Kinesiol, 308 W Circle Dr, E Lansing, MI 48824 USA; [Hoch, Johanna] ATC Univ Kentucky, 900 South Limestone St, Lexington, KY 40536 USA								11							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000661948900026	29	Article; Article		
J	Falk, Jimmy; Aasa, Ulrika; Berglund, Lars								How accurate are visual assessments by physical therapists of lumbo-pelvic movements during the squat and deadlift?								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				50				195	200		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.05.011			JUL 2021	2021	Objectives: To investigate the accuracy of visual assessments made by physical therapists of lumbo-pelvic movements during the squat and deadlift and how much movement is considered injurious. Design: Quantitative Cross-sectional. Participants: 14 powerlifters, 10 Olympic weightlifters and six physical therapists. Setting: The lifters were recorded simultaneously by video and an inertial measurement unit (IMU) system while performing squats and deadlifts. The physical therapists assessed the videos and rated whether specific lumbo-pelvic movements were visible during the lifts and whether the movement amplitude was considered injurious. Main outcome measures: The nominal visual assessments, if there was a movement and if it was considered injurious, were compared to the degrees of movement attained from the IMU system. Results: During the squat, a posterior pelvic tilt of >34 degrees was required to visually detect the movement. For other lumbo-pelvic movements, there was no significant difference in the amount of movement between those who were assessed as moving or not moving their lumbo-pelvic area, nor was there a difference in movement amplitude between those who were assessed as having an increased risk of injury or not. Conclusions: Physical therapists did not consistently detect lumbo-pelvic movements during squats and deadlifts when performed by competitive lifters. (C) 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Aasa, Ulrika; Berglund, Lars] Umea Univ, Dept Community Med & Rehabil, S-90187 Umea, Sweden; [Falk, Jimmy] Lulea Univ Technol, Dept Hlth Educ & Technol, S-97187 Lulea, Sweden; [Falk, Jimmy] Lulea Univ Technol, Dept Hlth Educ & Technol, S-97187 Lulea, Sweden								11							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000661948900025	33	Article; Article		
J	Sonesson, Sofi; Gauffin, Hakan; Kvist, Joanna								Early knee status affects self-reported knee function 1 year after non-surgically treated anterior cruciate ligament injury								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				50				173	183		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.05.007			JUL 2021	2021	Objectives: The primary aim was to assess impact of early knee status on self-reported knee function at 3 and 12 months and on quadriceps strength at 12 months after non-surgically treated ACL injury. The secondary aim was to describe the recovery of muscle strength during the first year after the injury. Design: Prospective cohort study. Participants: 70 patients (42 males; mean age 27 +/- 7 years) with acute ACL injury. Main outcome: Knee symptoms, knee function and sporting activities were assessed with the International Knee Documentation Committee Subjective Knee Form (IKDC-SKF). Muscle strength was assessed with an isokinetic dynamometer. Clinical assessment performed at baseline was used to evaluate early knee status. Results: Global knee function, knee joint stability during ADL, gait pattern and one-legged squat assessed in mean 2 weeks after injury hadimpact on self-reported knee function at 3 and 12 months (r(2) 0.105-0.267). Mean limb symmetry index (LSI) of muscle strength and jump performance were 91-98% at 12 months. Conclusion: Early knee symptoms affect self-reported knee function at 3 and 12 months, while other factors are important for gaining muscle strength. Muscle strength recovered during the first year after ACL injury and reached mean LSI above 90%. (C) 2021 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.		[Sonesson, Sofi; Kvist, Joanna] Linkoping Univ, Dept Hlth Med & Caring Sci, Unit Physiotherapy, Linkoping, Sweden; [Gauffin, Hakan] Linkoping Univ, Dept Orthopaed, Linkoping, Sweden; [Gauffin, Hakan] Linkoping Univ, Dept Biomed & Clin Sci, Linkoping, Sweden; [Kvist, Joanna] Linkoping Univ, Ctr Med Image Sci & Visualizat CMIV, Dept Hlth Med & Caring Sci, Linkoping, Sweden; [Sonesson, Sofi] Linkoping Univ, Dept Hlth Med & Caring Sci, Unit Physiotherapy, Linkoping, Sweden								7							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000661948900023	40	Article; Article		
J	Harutaichun, Pavinee; Boonyong, Sujitra; Pensri, Praneet								Differences in lower-extremity kinematics between the male military personnel with and without plantar fasciitis								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				50				130	137		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.04.007			JUL 2021	2021	Objective: To evaluate the factors that influence gait by comparing lower extremity kinematics during the stance phase of the gait cycle between individuals with and without plantar fasciitis. Design: A cross-sectional study. Setting: Motion analysis research laboratory. Participants: Thirty subjects with plantar fasciitis and 30 aged-matched controls. Main outcome measure(s): Range of motion of the lower extremity and multi-segment foot during gait using a three-dimensional motion analysis system. Results: The plantar fasciitis group showed significant differences in motion in the multi-segment foot, ankle, knee, and hip from the control group during various subphases of the stance phase. Specifically, relative to the control group, the plantar fasciitis group had more rearfoot adduction, forefoot eversion, ankle abduction, and hip abduction. They also had less midfoot dorsiflexion, forefoot dorsiflexion, knee extension, knee external rotation, and hip extension (all Ps < 0.05). Conclusions: Individuals with plantar fasciitis exhibited more flexibility in the ankle-foot complex and poorer quality of lower-extremity movement than the group that did not have plantar fasciitis. Thus, differences in structures in both the ankle-foot complex as well as those in the hip and knee joints appear to be associated with the presence of plantar fasciitis. (c) 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Harutaichun, Pavinee; Boonyong, Sujitra; Pensri, Praneet] Chulalongkorn Univ, Fac Allied Hlth Sci, Dept Phys Therapy, Bangkok, Thailand; [Harutaichun, Pavinee] Mahidol Univ, Fac Phys Therapy, Salaya, Nakhon Pathom, Thailand; [Pensri, Praneet] 154 Rama 1 Rd, Bangkok, Thailand								8							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000661948900016	36	Article; Article		
J	Ohji, Shunsuke; Aizawa, Junya; Hirohata, Kenji; Ohmi, Takehiro; Mitomo, Sho; Koga, Hideyuki; Yagishita, Kazuyoshi								The psychological readiness to return to sports of patients with anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction preoperatively and 6 months postoperatively								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				50				114	120		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.04.009			JUL 2021	2021	Objective: To determine the association of psychological readiness to return to sports preoperative and 6 months post-reconstruction in athletes with anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) injury. Design: Retrospective cohort study. Setting: Clinical center of sports medicine. Participants: Fifty athletes, aged 16-45 years, were included in this study. Participants had a modified Tegner activity scale score >5 before ACL injury. Main outcome measures: Participants were divided into High and Low groups based on ACL-return to sport after injury scale (ACL-RSI) scores 6 months post-ACL reconstruction (ACLR) (cutoff: 56 points). Results: The Low group had lower ACL-RSI scores than the High group preoperatively (P < 0.001) and 6 months post-ACLR (P < 0.001). The High group had a significantly greater amount of change in ACL-RSI scores preoperatively to 6 months post-ACLR than the Low group (P = 0.003). Preoperative ACL-RSI scores increased significantly to 6 months post-ACLR in the entire group of participants (P < 0.001) and in the High group (P < 0.001). However, in the Low group, ACL-RSI scores did not increase signifi-cantly (P = 0.714). Conclusions: Participants with low ACL-RSI scores 6 months post-ACLR had low preoperative ACL-RSI scores that did not improve preoperatively to 6 months post-ACLR. (c) 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Ohji, Shunsuke; Hirohata, Kenji; Ohmi, Takehiro; Mitomo, Sho; Yagishita, Kazuyoshi] Tokyo Med & Dent Univ, Clin Ctr Sports Med & Sports Dent, Bunkyo Ku, 1-5-45 Yushima, Tokyo 1138519, Japan; [Aizawa, Junya] Juntendo Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Bunkyo Ku, 3-2-12 Hongo, Tokyo 1130033, Japan; [Koga, Hideyuki] Tokyo Med & Dent Univ, Dept Joint Surg & Sports Med, Bunkyo Ku, 1-5-45 Yushima, Tokyo 1138519, Japan; [Ohji, Shunsuke] Tokyo Med & Dent Univ, Clin Ctr Sports Med & Sports Dent, Bunkyo Ku, 1-5-45 Yushima, Tokyo 1138519, Japan								18							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000661948900014	29	Article; Article		
J	Malafronte, Jack; Hannon, Joseph; Goto, Shiho; Singleton, Steve B.; Dietrich, Lindsey; Garrison, J. Craig; Kovacs, Trevor								Limb dominance influences energy absorption contribution (EAC) during landing after anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				50				42	49		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.03.015			JUL 2021	2021	Objective: To determine the role of limb dominance on energy absorption contribution (EAC) during a jump landing (JL) task at return to sport (RTS) after ACL-R. Design: Cross-sectional study. Setting: Clinical Research Laboratory. Participants: One hundred eight participants (age = 16.19 +/- 1.74, Height = 172.25 +/- 9.96 cm, Weight = 72.61 +/- 15.48 kg). Main outcome measures: Participants were grouped into two groups: those who injured their dominant limb ACL (D-ACL) and those who injured their non-dominant limb ACL (ND-ACL). A multiple analysis of variance (MANOVA) was used to assess for between group differences in EAC across the three joints. Results: In the surgical limb, D-ACL demonstrated smaller hip (D-ACL = 32.23 +/- 10.44%, NDACL = 69.68 +/- 8.51%, p < 0.008) and greater knee (D-ACL = 45.86 +/- 10.36%, ND-ACL = 9.41 +/- 5.68%, p < 0.008) EAC than ND-ACL. In the non-surgical limb, D-ACL demonstrated greater hip (DACL = 62.59 +/- 9.03%, ND-ACL = 25.95 +/- 7.15%, p < 0.008), and smaller knee (D-ACL = 13.79 +/- 5.57%, NDACL = 58.01 +/- 7.86%, p < 0.008), EAC than ND-ACL. Conclusion: After ACL-R, eccentric loading strategies during a JL task at RTS are different depending upon limb dominance. D-ACL demonstrated a greater knee loading strategy on the surgical side compared to ND-ACL. (c) 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Malafronte, Jack] PT Solutions, 2221 S Dale Mabry Hwy, Tampa, FL 33629 USA; [Hannon, Joseph; Goto, Shiho] Texas Hlth Sports Med Southwest, 6301 Harris Pkwy,Suite 150, Ft Worth, TX 76132 USA; [Singleton, Steve B.] Ft Worth Orthoped, 6301 Harris Pkwy,Suite 200, Ft Worth, TX 76132 USA; [Dietrich, Lindsey] Sideline Orthoped & Sports, 4401 Pk Springs Blvd Suite 130, Arlington, TX 76017 USA; [Garrison, J. Craig] Northwestern Univ, Dept Phys Therapy & Human Movement Sci, Feinberg Sch Med, Chicago, IL USA; [Kovacs, Trevor] Elite Orthosport Phys Therapy & Performance, 12121 Wilshire Blvd,Unit 100, Los Angeles, CA 90025 USA; [Malafronte, Jack] 2221 S Dale Mabry Hwy, Tampa, FL 33629 USA								10							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000661948900006	60	Article; Article		
J	Webster, Kate E.; Ristanis, Stavros; Feller, Julian A.								A longitudinal investigation of landing biomechanics following anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				50				36	41		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.03.012			JUL 2021	2021	Objective: Abnormal movement patterns have been shown during landing in patients who have undergone anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) reconstruction surgery. The purpose of this study was to investigate landing biomechanics over time in this patient group to determine whether asymmetry between limbs reduced with time and after a return to physical activity. Design: Prospective longitudinal study. Setting: Biomechanics laboratory. Participants: Fourteen patients who had undergone ACL reconstruction surgery. Main outcome measure: Single limb landing assessments were made at two time points; within the first year (mean of 10 months) and at 3 years (after patients had returned to sport) following ACL reconstruction. Three-dimensional motion analysis was used to record kinematic and kinetic variables, which were compared across time and limb using ANOVA models. Results: Most biomechanical variables showed little change over time except for the external knee adduction moment at the operated knee, which increased (effect size d = 0.5), but remained less than the contralateral side. In the sagittal plane, asymmetrical landing patterns were seen at both assessments. Patients landed with reduced knee flexion angles (effect size range 0.76-0.9) and moments (effect size range 0.56-0.9) compared to the uninjured limb and made compensations for this by increasing the hip flexion moment (effect size range d = 0.6-0.75). Conclusions: Asymmetrical landing biomechanics persisted at three years after ACL reconstruction in athletes who returned to sporting activity. Long term implications of controlling the landing by increasing the hip moment are unknown and require further investigation. (c) 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Webster, Kate E.; Feller, Julian A.] La Trobe Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Human Serv & Sport, Melbourne, Vic 3083, Australia; [Ristanis, Stavros] Metropolitan Hosp, Athens, Greece; [Feller, Julian A.] OrthoSport Victoria Res Unit, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Webster, Kate E.] La Trobe Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Human Serv & Sport, Melbourne, Vic 3083, Australia								15							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000661948900005	44	Article; Article		
J	Uzlasir, Serkan; Ozdiraz, Kamile Y.; Dag, Osman; Tunay, Volga B.								The effects of stroboscopic balance training on cortical activities in athletes with chronic ankle instability								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				50				50	58		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.03.014			JUL 2021	2021	Objectives: To investigate the effect of a 6-week stroboscopic balance training program on cortical ac-tivities in athletes with chronic ankle instability. Design: Randomized controlled trial. Setting: Single-center. Participants: Thirty-nine participants were assigned to the strobe group (SG, n = 13), non-strobe group (NSG, n = 13), and control group (CG, n = 13). Main outcome measures: Cortical activity and balance velocity were evaluated while the athletes were on the HUBER balance device. Electroencephalographic measurements of cortical activity were made at the transition from bipedal stance to single-leg stance. Results: The SG showed significant increases in Cz theta and alpha values and COP-v (center of pressure velocity) between pretest and posttest (p < 0.001, p = 0.003, p < 0.001). Posttest Cz theta was signifi-cantly higher in the SG compared to the CG (p = 0.009) and posttest Cz alpha was significantly higher in the SG compared to the NSG (p = 0.039) and CG (p = 0.001). Posttest COP-v was significantly higher in the SG than in the CG (p = 0.031) and NSG (p = 0.03). Conclusions: Stroboscopic training may be clinically beneficial to improve balance parameters in athletes with CAI, and may have utility in sport-specific activity phases of rehabilitation to reduce visual input and increase motor control. (c) 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Uzlasir, Serkan] Veli Univ, Nevsehir Haci Bektas, Sch Sports Sci & Technol, TR-50300 Nevsehir, Turkey; [Ozdiraz, Kamile Y.] Erciyes Univ, Gevher Nesibe Inst, Dept Neurosci, Kayseri, Turkey; [Dag, Osman] Hacettepe Univ, Dept Biostat, Fac Med, TR-06100 Ankara, Turkey; [Tunay, Volga B.] Hacettepe Univ, Fac Phys Therapy & Rehabil, TR-06100 Ankara, Turkey; [Tunay, Volga B.] Hacettepe Univ, Fac Phys Therapy & Rehabil, TR-06100 Ankara, Turkey								37							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000661948900007	52	Article; Article		
J	Powell, Andrew; Williamson, Samuel; McCaig, Steven; Heneghan, Nicola R.; Horsley, Ian								An investigation of a Kerlan-Jobe Orthopaedic Clinic shoulder and elbow score in elite canoe slalom: Establishing measurement properties to make practice recommendations								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				50				15	21		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.03.009			JUL 2021	2021	Objective: To investigate the test-retest reliability and validity of the Kerlan-Jobe Orthopaedic Clinic shoulder and elbow score (KJOC) in elite Canoe Slalom athletes and determine its ability to predict future shoulder pain. Design: Observational study with embedded test-retest reliability study. Setting: British Canoe Slalom National Training Centre. Participants: Nineteen athletes from the British Canoe Slalom team for the 2019 season. Main outcome measures: The KJOC was completed at the start of winter training and start of the 2019 competitive season. Current, historical (6-months pre-questionnaire) and prospective (4-months post-questionnaire) shoulder injuries were recorded. Results: Test-retest reliability was found to be excellent (ICC3,1=0.97), with a minimal detectable change (MDC95%) of 6.7. Compared to uninjured athletes, currently injured and historically injured athletes scored significantly lower (p=0.002 and p=0.011, respectively), with the difference between means > MDC95%. A cut-off of 88 was found to be predictive of shoulder pain (AUC: 0.779; sensitivity: 0.60; specificity: 0.95; positive likelihood ratio: 11.4). Conclusion: The KJOC demonstrated excellent reliability and can distinguish between athletes with and without current or historical shoulder pain. A KJOC score of <88 was associated with increased risk of shoulder pain. The KJOC should be completed as part of a risk profile for shoulder pain. (C) 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Powell, Andrew; Williamson, Samuel] English Inst Sport, London, England; [McCaig, Steven] English Inst Sport, Loughborough, Leics, England; [Heneghan, Nicola R.] Univ Birmingham, Ctr Precis Rehabil Spinal Pain, Sch Sport, Birmingham, W Midlands, England; [Horsley, Ian] English Inst Sport, Manchester, Lancs, England; [Powell, Andrew] English Inst Sport, Lee Valley Whitewater Ctr, British Canoeing, Stn Rd, Hertford EN9 1AB, England								6							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000661948900003	32	Article; Article		
J	Mashimo, Sonoko; Yoshida, Naruto; Takegami, Ayaka; Suzuki, Keita; Onishi, Shinzo								Injury pattern according to player position in Japanese youth handball: A cross-sectional study among 2377 players								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				50				7	14		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.03.016			JUL 2021	2021	Objective: Although the incidence and pattern of injuries in youth handball have widely been investi-gated, it is unclear whether the characteristics of injuries differ on the basis of player position. This study aimed at revealing the player position-based injury profile in Japanese youth handball players. Design: Cross-sectional. Setting: Injury questionnaire. Participants: Overall, 2377 participants who played in the 2018 and 2019 Japanese National High School Handball Championships were included. Main outcome measures: Prevalence, body region, type, severity, and mechanism of injuries were collected through a questionnaire. Results: The overall prevalence of injury within the previous year was 46.7%, and the proportion of back players (52.8%) who sustained at least one injury was higher than that of players in other positions (p < 0.001). Differences in player positions were found among overuse injuries by body region, with a higher proportion of the lower leg and knee in wings and backs, respectively (p = 0.047). Among traumatic injuries, a higher proportion of ligamentous rupture in backs and fracture in lines were seen (p = 0.011). Conclusion: There were significant differences in the prevalence and patterns of injuries between player positions. Therefore, injury prevention programmes should consider the characteristics of player positions. (c) 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Mashimo, Sonoko] Osaka Electrocommun Univ, Inst Liberal Arts & Sci, 18-8 Hatsucho, Neyagawa, Osaka 5728530, Japan; [Yoshida, Naruto] Teikyo Heisei Univ, Fac Hlth Care, Toshima Ku, 2-51-4 Higashiikebukuro, Tokyo 1708445, Japan; [Takegami, Ayaka] Univ Tsukuba, Grad Sch Comprehens Human Sci, 1-1-1 Tennodai, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 3058577, Japan; [Suzuki, Keita] Univ Tsukuba, Sports Res & Dev Core, 1-1-1 Tennodai, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 3058577, Japan; [Onishi, Shinzo] Univ Tsukuba, Fac Med, Dept Orthopaed Surg, 1-1-1 Tennodai, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 3058577, Japan; [Mashimo, Sonoko] Osaka Electrocommun Univ, Inst Liberal Arts & Sci, 18-8 Hatsucho, Neyagawa, Osaka 5728530, Japan								12							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000661948900002	29	Article; Article		
J	Chesterton, Paul; Tears, Craig								The uptake of the Nordic hamstring exercise programme as an injury prevention strategy in professional cricket in the United Kingdom and barriers to implementation								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				50				1	6		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.03.013			JUL 2021	2021	Objectives: To report hamstring prevention strategies of professional male cricket clubs in the United Kingdom, identify the application of the Nordic hamstring programme (NHP) and gain knowledge of medical teams' reasons for the NHP's inclusion or exclusion. Design: Cross-sectional questionnaire. Setting: Online survey. Participants: 15 (75%) of professional cricket clubs in the United Kingdom. Main outcome measures: Survey based on the RE-AIM framework. Results: Twelve clubs reported having a formal hamstring injury prevention programme. The Nordic hamstring exercise and eccentric exercises (100%) were the most used interventions. Three clubs implemented the NHP, with one classed as fully compliant. Respondents partially agreed, on a 5 point Likert scale, that the Nordic hamstring exercise was effective at reducing injuries at their club (Mean 3.73 +/- SD 0.70) and across professional cricket (3.87 +/- 0.64). Barriers to implementation across cricket included players not positively perceiving the programme (60%) with a cultural change required (60%) for its adoption. Conclusions: The Nordic hamstring exercise is positively received by medical personnel in professional cricket in conjunction with other prevention strategies. Three clubs have utilised the NHP in the last three seasons with one club considered fully compliant. A cultural shift from players and coaches may be required for successful NHP implementation. (c) 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Chesterton, Paul; Tears, Craig] Teesside Univ, Sch Hlth & Life Sci, Borough Rd, Tees Valley TS1 3BA, England; [Chesterton, Paul] Teesside Univ, Sch Hlth & Life Sci, Borough Rd, Tees Valley TS1 3BA, England								7							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000661948900001	39	Article; Article		
J	Read, Daniel; Smith, Aaron C. T.; Skinner, James								A Comparative Analysis of Competitive Balance Between a Closed and an Open League in Rugby League								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				22	8			871	892	15270025211022243	10.1177/15270025211022243			DEC 2021	2021	League regulators aim for an equitable competition where each team has an equal chance of winning the championship, termed competitive balance. It is generally assumed that closed leagues with stricter labor market regulations should demonstrate better competitive balance than open leagues with promotion and relegation. The aim of this research was to examine the competitive balance between and within seasons in the closed Australian National Rugby League (NRL) and open English Super League using five measures of concentration and dominance. Overall, the closed NRL competition demonstrated superior competitive balance. The practical and theoretical implications of the findings are discussed.		[Read, Daniel; Skinner, James] Loughborough Univ London, Inst Sport Business, London, England; [Smith, Aaron C. T.] Loughborough Univ London, Inst Innovat & Entrepreneurship, London, England; [Read, Daniel] Loughborough Univ London, Inst Sport Business, Broadcast Ctr, Queen Elizabeth Olymp Pk,3 Lesney Ave, London E15 2GZ, England								2							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000669320900001	78	Article; Article		
J	Hammami, Mehrez; Gaamouri, Nawel; Ramirez-Campillo, Rodrigo; Aloui, Gaith; Shephard, Roy J.; Hill, Lee; Knechtle, Beat; Chelly, Mohamed Souhaiel								Effects of supplemental jump and sprint exercise training on sand on athletic performance of male U17 handball players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	2			376	384	17479541211025731	10.1177/17479541211025731			APR 2022	2022	This controlled study investigated the effects of 7 weeks pre-season supplemental jump and sprint exercise training on sand (JSETS) on athletic ability in male handball players. Males (n = 40; 16.3 +/- 0.4 years) were randomly assigned to a jump and sprint training (JSTG; n = 24) or a control (CG; n = 18) group. The JSETS replaced a part of the regular handball training of players. The tests included jumps (squat, counter-movement, and 5 jump tests), sprint times (5 m, 10 m and 20 m), agility (modified T and modified Illinois tests), repeated sprint T-test, and balance (standing stork and Y balance tests). JSTG showed relative to CG significant decreases in sprint times over all distances (5 m (p = 0.002, d = 0.735 (medium); 10 m (p = 0.012, d = 0.577 (medium) and 20 m (p = 0.012, d = 0.573 (medium)), and gains in both measures of agility (p = 0.001, d = 0.859 (large) and p = 0.004, d = 0.670 (medium) for T-Half and Illinois-tests respectively), and in jumping squat (p < 0.001, d = 0.813 (large)) and countermovement jumping (p = 0.004, d = 0.663 (medium)), but not in the 5-jump test. Three of the four repeated sprint scores (best time (BT), meantime (MT) and total time (TT)) improved significantly (p = 0.012, d = 0.577 (medium); p = 0.042, d = 0.463 (small) and p = 0.043, d = 0.458 (small) respectively), but the decrement (DEC) remained unchanged. The Y balance test showed significant gains in 2 of 3 scores for the right leg and 1 of 3 scores for the left leg, and the stork balance (right leg) was enhanced. In conclusion, compared to regular handball training, supplemental jump and sprint exercise training on sand substantially improved sprinting, agility, jumping, repeated sprinting, and balance in male handball players.		[Hammami, Mehrez; Gaamouri, Nawel; Aloui, Gaith; Chelly, Mohamed Souhaiel] Univ La Manouba, Higher Inst Sport & Phys Educ KsarSaid, Res Unit UR17JS01 Sport Performance Hlth & Soc, Tunis, Tunisia; [Hammami, Mehrez; Gaamouri, Nawel; Chelly, Mohamed Souhaiel] Univ La Manouba, Higher Inst Sport & Phys Educ Ksar Said, Tunis, Tunisia; [Ramirez-Campillo, Rodrigo] Univ Los Lagos, Dept Phys Act Sci, Qual Life & Wellness Res Grp, Lab Human Performance, Osorno, Chile; [Shephard, Roy J.] Univ Toronto, Fac Kinesiol & Phys Educ, Toronto, ON, Canada; [Hill, Lee] McMaster Univ, Div Gastroenterol & Nutr, Dept Pediat, Hamilton, ON, Canada; [Knechtle, Beat] Medbase St Gallen Vadianpl,Vadianstr 26, CH-9001 St Gallen, Switzerland; [Knechtle, Beat] Univ Zurich, Inst Primary Care, Zurich, Switzerland; [Knechtle, Beat] Medbase St Gallen Vadianpl,Vadianstr 26, CH-9001 St Gallen, Switzerland								10							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000669319200001	43	Article; Article		
J	Wilson, Laura D.; Hildebrand, Rachel A.; Le, Trang; McKinney, Brett A.								Repetitive head impacts in a collegiate football season: Exposure and effects								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	2			285	297	17479541211027277	10.1177/17479541211027277			APR 2022	2022	This study describes exposure to repetitive head impacts (RHI) by player position and activity during a collegiate football season, and investigates the relationship between RHI and acute (i.e., daily and weekly) and short-term (i.e., pre- to post-season) changes in balance, reaction time, symptoms, and cognition. We recorded RHI exposure in twenty Division I collegiate American football players during a single season using the Riddell InSite system. Participants sustained 4,586 impacts (4.20% high impact, i.e., >63 g; 95.79% low impact, i.e., 20-63 g). Greatest exposure to RHI was observed in running backs and defensive ends during games, and tight ends and defensive ends during practices. Running plays and team drills placed players at greatest risk for exposure during practice. Cumulative RHI exposure across the season was associated with short-term declines in reaction time (p = 0.045), but not balance or cognition. Acute decline in balance was associated with the number of impacts sustained in the past week (p < 0.05), but not the past 24 hours (p > 0.05). Acute increase in total symptom score was also associated with the number of impacts sustained in the past week (p < 0.01), but not the past 24 hours (p > 0.05). Reaction time did not decline based on impact exposure in the past 24 hours or week. This study identifies activities and positions that may put players at risk for RHI exposure, and demonstrates that RHI sustained during the course of typical American football play by non-concussed individuals may result in small changes in balance, reaction time, and symptoms, but not cognition.		[Wilson, Laura D.] Univ Tulsa, Mary K Chapman Ctr, Oxley Coll Hlth Sci, Dept Commun Sci & Disorders, Tulsa, OK 74104 USA; [Hildebrand, Rachel A.] Univ Tulsa, Oxley Coll Hlth Sci, Dept Kinesiol & Rehabilitat Sci, Tulsa, OK 74104 USA; [Le, Trang; McKinney, Brett A.] Univ Tulsa, Dept Math, Tulsa, OK 74104 USA; [Le, Trang] Univ Penn, Dept Biostat Epidemiol & Informat, Philadelphia, PA 19104 USA; [McKinney, Brett A.] Univ Tulsa, Tandy Sch Comp Sci, Tulsa, OK 74104 USA; [Wilson, Laura D.] Univ Tulsa, Mary K Chapman Ctr 103, Oxley Coll Hlth Sci, Dept Commun Sci & Disorders, 800 S Tucker Dr, Tulsa, OK 74104 USA								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000669330900001	65	Article; Article		
J	Anderson, Emma; Stone, Joseph Antony; Dunn, Marcus; Heller, Ben								Coach approaches to practice design in performance tennis								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	6			1281	1292	17479541211027294	10.1177/17479541211027294			DEC 2021	2021	Research demonstrates the benefits of a more contemporary, ecological-dynamics led approach in sport coaching; however, traditional methods of practice design persist. Few studies have explored the intentions of performance tennis coaches as they design practice. This study explored performance tennis coach philosophies and approaches to practice design. Interviews took place with ten high performance coaches who worked within a national tennis performance network. A thematic analysis revealed that coach approaches to practice design were informed by 1) their experiential knowledge and 2) their beliefs regarding player development. Coaches emerged as learners, who developed their knowledge through unmediated, informal learning opportunities, for example reflective practice and 'on the job' experience. Six coaches had played tennis professionally, valuing this as a learning experience that informed their own practice. Three common beliefs regarding player development emerged between participants: repeatable players, performing under pressure, and individualised practice. These beliefs formed practice design principles, which translated into a uniform implementation of drills (serial, blocked, repeated patterns of play) and the intuitive inclusion of representative practice designs and constraints manipulation. The findings from this study suggest that, although performance tennis coaches are aware of contemporary approaches to practice design, a traditional, information-processing approach to skill development dominates their design of practice tasks. This study documents approaches to practice design in elite tennis and contributes to a growing body of pedagogical research in performance sport.		[Anderson, Emma; Dunn, Marcus; Heller, Ben] Sheffield Hallam Univ, Sport Engn Res Grp, Sheffield, S Yorkshire, England; [Stone, Joseph Antony] Sheffield Hallam Univ, Acad Sport & Phys Act, Sheffield, S Yorkshire, England; [Anderson, Emma] Sheffield Hallam Univ, Ctr Sports Engn Res, Sheffield, S Yorkshire, England								8							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000669331200001	58	Article; Article		
J	Vargas, Luilly; Charen, Daniel; Huang, Hsin-Hui; Poeran, Jashvant; Colvin, Alexis								Analysis of common shoulder injuries in collegiate baseball players								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				50	5			394	399		10.1080/00913847.2021.1934910			SEP 3 2022	2022	Objectives: Baseball players are highly susceptible to shoulder injuries due to repetitive overhead throwing. The purpose of this study was to investigate men's collegiate baseball shoulder injury rates and associated risk factors. Methods: Using the NCAA Injury Surveillance Program (ISP) database, shoulder injury data for men's baseball players was analyzed from 2009-2010 through 2013-2014. Only the most common shoulder injuries were examined, including acromioclavicular (AC) sprain, anterior dislocation, biceps tear, biceps tendinitis, SLAP (superior labrum from anterior to posterior) tear, non-SLAP labral tear, rotator cuff tear, rotator cuff tendinitis, and shoulder impingement. Statistical analysis was performed using proportion ratios (PR). Statistical significance was initially defined as p Results: Overall, 138 shoulder injuries were identified of which 51.4% occurred during practice. Rotator cuff pathology represented 45.6% of all injuries, with rotator cuff tears significantly more likely to be season-ending injuries (PR 2.5, 95% CI 1.2-5.6, p = 0.019). Pitching or throwing was the mechanism of injury in 100% of players with rotator cuff tendonitis, 87.5% of SLAP tears, 70% of players with biceps tendinitis, and 67% of players with rotator cuff tears. Biceps tendinitis (PR 3.9, 95% CI 1.2-12.5, p = 0.024) and SLAP tears (PR 6.4, 95% CI 1.6-25.0, p = 0.008) were significantly more likely to be chronic. SLAP tears were significantly more likely to be recurrent (PR 5.5, 95% CI = 1.5-20.4, p = 0.010). Being a freshman or sophomore was significantly associated with a lower proportion of biceps tendinitis (PR = 0.2, 95% CI = 0.04-0.8, p = 0.028). All anterior shoulder dislocations occurred while running the bases or sliding, and AC sprains were significantly associated with contact (PR 20.6, 95% CI = 2.5-168.7, p = 0.0048). Conclusions: Repetitive overhead throwing in college baseball is a common cause of overuse shoulder injuries. These athletes are especially susceptible to rotator cuff pathology, which is significantly more likely to cause season-ending injuries. While we have to interpret these results in light of both adjusted and unadjusted p-values, this information signifies the importance of shoulder injury prevention strategies by physicians and trainers taking care of collegiate baseball players.		[Vargas, Luilly] NYU, Langone Orthoped Hosp, Grossman Sch Med, New York, NY USA; [Charen, Daniel; Colvin, Alexis] Icahn Sch Med Mt Sinai, Dept Orthoped Surg, 5E 98th St, New York, NY 10029 USA; [Huang, Hsin-Hui; Poeran, Jashvant] Icahn Sch Med Mt Sinai, Dept Hlth Sci & Policy, Dept Orthoped Surg, New York, NY 10029 USA; [Charen, Daniel] Icahn Sch Med Mt Sinai, Dept Orthoped Surg, 5E 98th St, New York, NY 10029 USA								10							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000664904400001	26	Article; Article		
J	Ji, Xiangbo; Xu, Jianhua; Cheng, Liping; Sun, Jianfei; Zhang, Xiaocheng								A Chinese perspective on the actual and preferred sources of coaching knowledge								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	5			1086	1096	17479541211018769	10.1177/17479541211018769			OCT 2021	2021	Efforts to improve coaching effectiveness require an understanding of the common sources of coaches' knowledge acquisition. Sports coaches utilise multiple learning sources, yet limited direct evidence elucidates the manner in which Chinese coaches learn to coach and the evolution of their learning sources throughout their careers' development. This research examines the actual and preferred sources of coaching knowledge for Chinese coaches and analyses changes in learning sources from Junior to Senior level coaches. One hundred coaches from China, including 60 Junior coaches, 23 Intermediate coaches and 17 Senior coaches, completed an online questionnaire. The survey results indicated that coaches acquire knowledge from formal, informal and non-formal learning situations. However, formal coach education (coach education programmes) is the most important source of knowledge acquisition for all coaches. Furthermore, as coaches develop, the sources to acquire knowledge will gradually change from athletic experience to interaction with other coaches. Based on these findings, we suggest that national sport governing bodies build more comprehensive coach education systems by establishing a scientific mentoring system and organising regular coach-themed clinics, seminars, meetings and so on. Future research is needed to examine how coaches in China's dominant programmes learn to coach and how this learning is practically applied.		[Ji, Xiangbo; Zhang, Xiaocheng] Hangzhou Med Coll, Sports Dept, Hangzhou, Peoples R China; [Xu, Jianhua; Cheng, Liping; Sun, Jianfei] Fujian Normal Univ, Sch Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Fuzhou 350100, Fujian, Peoples R China; [Cheng, Liping] Fujian Normal Univ, Sch Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Fuzhou 350100, Fujian, Peoples R China								8							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000665239900001	60	Article; Article		
J	Ross, Keir A.; Fried, Jordan W.; Bloom, David A.; Gonzalez-Lomas, Guillem								The effect of specialization and level of competition on injury in elite male ice hockey players								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				50	4			295	300		10.1080/00913847.2021.1916786			JUL 4 2022	2022	Objective: Young players experience pressure to focus on ice hockey at the exclusion of other sports in order to improve chances of success. Early specialization in other sports has been associated with increased injury without the benefit of improved success. The objective of the current study was to investigate whether earlier specialization results in increased injury without higher rates of career success. This study also aimed to compare rates of injury in athletes at various levels of competition. Methods: An original survey was issued to men's ice hockey players at the junior A, collegiate, and professional levels. The survey consisted of 34 questions on various demographic, specialization, and injury variables. All participants were >18 years of age. Results: The survey was completed by 101 athletes. The mean age at specialization was 13 (+/- 4) overall and 14 (+/- 3), 13 (+/- 4), and 11(+/- 4) for professional, collegiate, and junior players, respectively. There was no difference in age at specialization between each group and professional players did not specialize earlier than the remainder of the cohort as a whole (p > 0.05). There was no significant correlation between age at specialization and total injuries (p > 0.05). There was no difference in concussions causing missed play time between groups (p > 0.05) but professional players had more overall concussions and underwent more surgeries due to hockey-related injuries (p = 0.01). Conclusions: Specializing exclusively in ice hockey earlier in life was not associated with playing professionally. Both collegiate and professional players do not tend to specialize prior to age 12. Age at specialization was not associated with overall number of injuries. Professional players with longer careers appear to sustain more concussions and undergo more surgery.		[Ross, Keir A.; Fried, Jordan W.; Bloom, David A.; Gonzalez-Lomas, Guillem] NYU, Dept Orthoped Surg, Sch Med, New York, NY 10003 USA; [Ross, Keir A.] NYU Langone Orthopaed Hosp, 301 E17 St Suite 1402, New York, NY 10003 USA								8							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000664165400001	27	Article; Article		
J	Bini, Rodrigo R.; Hunter, Jayden R.								Pain and body position on the bicycle in competitive and recreational road cyclists: A retrospective study								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				22	4			522	535		10.1080/14763141.2021.1942967			APR 3 2023	2023	This study compared the presence of pain in recreational and competitive road cyclists and body position on the bicycle between cyclists with and without pain. Seventy-one cyclists completed a survey reporting existing cycling-related sites of pain and comfort. Static sagittal and frontal plane images were taken to analyse body position on the bicycle. Participants were separated into recreational and competitive road cycling groups, and further into cyclists reporting pain in the upper body, low back, buttocks/hips and knees for comparison with cyclists without pain. A logistic regression model investigated possible predictors of pain whilst cycling. Pain was present in 67% of recreational and 70% of competitive cyclists whilst comfort was reported by 81% of recreational and 75% of competitive cyclists. Trivial to moderate non-significant differences were observed for body position on the bicycle between cyclists with and without pain, and between cyclists with and without pain in the upper body, low back, buttocks/hips and knees. The predictive logistic model was not significant (p = 0.07) with a model fit predicted by McFadden R-2 of 0.07. Given most cyclists reported both pain and comfort, comfort is probably not a good predictor of overuse injury risk.		[Bini, Rodrigo R.; Hunter, Jayden R.] La Trobe Univ, La Trobe Rural Hlth Sch, Holsworth Res Initiat, Bendigo, Australia; [Bini, Rodrigo R.] Auckland Univ Technol, Sport Performance Res Inst New Zealand, Auckland, New Zealand; [Bini, Rodrigo R.] La Trobe Univ, La Trobe Rural Hlth Sch, Holsworth Res Initiat, Bendigo, Australia; [Bini, Rodrigo R.] Auckland Univ Technol, Sport Performance Res Inst New Zealand, Auckland, New Zealand								12							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000663181400001	44	Article; Article		
J	Hosseini, Elham; Daneshjoo, Abdolhamid; Sahebozamani, Mansour; Behm, David								The effects of fatigue on knee kinematics during unanticipated change of direction in adolescent girl athletes: a comparison between dominant and non-dominant legs								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	9			1219	1228		10.1080/14763141.2021.1925732			SEP 1 2024	2024	This study was aimed to compare the knee kinematic parameters between dominant and non-dominant legs of adolescent female athletes during change of direction (CoD) in fatigued and unpredictable settings. Knee kinematic parameters on 49 athletes (mean +/- SD; age = 14.69 +/- 0.14 years; mass = 49.05 +/- 1.22 kg; height = 1.61 +/- 0.08 m) during CoD before and after performing the Bruce protocol and also in predictable and unpredictable setting situations were collected. Kinematic data were recorded at a sampling rate of 200 Hz. The results showed that the dominant leg had significantly 18.7% more flexion (p = 0.001, eta = 0.95), 7.1% less valgus (p = 0.001, eta = 0.95) and 0.32% lower tibia rotation (p = 0.003, eta = 0.16) compared to the non-dominant leg in predictable and pre-fatigue (p < 0.05) conditions. With unpredictable and post-fatigue conditions the dominant limb again demonstrated 17.4% (p = 0.001, eta = 0.67), greater knee flexion, 6.8% (0.003,eta = 0.97) lower knee valgus and 1.4% (p = 0.001, eta = 0.71) less tibiarotation. In conclusion, there may be an increased risk of injury withthe non-dominant leg due to changes in kinematic parameters caused by fatigue and unpredictable CoD manoeuvres.		[Hosseini, Elham; Daneshjoo, Abdolhamid; Sahebozamani, Mansour] Shahid Bahonar Univ Kerman, Dept Sports Injuries & Correct Exercises, Kerman, Iran; [Behm, David] Mem Univ Newfoundland, Sch Human Kinet & Recreat, St John, NF, Canada; [Daneshjoo, Abdolhamid] Shahid Bahonar Univ Kerman, Dept Sports Injuries & Correct Exercises, Kerman, Iran								11							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000661308300001	31	Article; Article		
J	Quirino, Juliana; Teles Santos, Thiago Ribeiro; Okai-Nobrega, Liria Akie; de Araujo, Priscila Albuquerque; Carvalho, Renatha; Ocarino, Juliana de Melo; Souza, Thales Rezende; Fonseca, Sergio Teixeira								Runners with a history of injury have greater lower limb movement regularity than runners without a history of injury								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	9			1147	1159		10.1080/14763141.2021.1929435			SEP 1 2024	2024	This study aimed to investigate the regularity of the lower limb joint kinematics in runners with and without a history of running-related injuries. The second aim was to verify if the movement pattern regularities are different among the lower limb joints. Eighteen asymptomatic recreational runners with and without a history of running-related injury participated in this study. Lower limb kinematics in the sagittal plane were recorded during running on a treadmill at a self-selected speed. The regularities of the time series of hip, knee, and ankle were analysed using sample entropy (SampEn). A mixed analysis of variance was used to investigate differences between groups and among joints. Runners with a history of injury had lower SampEn values than runners without a history of injury. Ankle kinematics SampEn was higher than that of the knee and hip. Knee kinematics had higher values of SampEn than that of the hip. Runners with a history of running-related injury had greater joint kinematic's regularity. This result suggests that, even in asymptomatic runners, previous injuries could influence the movement pattern regularity. Also, the regularity was different among joints. The ankle demonstrated the lowest regularity, reinforcing the different functions that lower limb joints perform during running.		[Quirino, Juliana; Teles Santos, Thiago Ribeiro; Okai-Nobrega, Liria Akie; de Araujo, Priscila Albuquerque; Carvalho, Renatha; Ocarino, Juliana de Melo; Souza, Thales Rezende; Fonseca, Sergio Teixeira] Univ Fed Minas Gerais, Sch Phys Educ Phys Therapy & Occupat Therapy, Dept Phys Therapy, Grad Program Rehabil Sci, Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil; [Quirino, Juliana] Univ Fed Minas Gerais, Sch Phys Educ Phys Therapy & Occupat Therapy, Dept Phys Therapy, Grad Program Rehabil Sci, Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil								11							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000661311500001	53	Article; Article		
J	Jamali, Muhammad Noh Zulfikri Mohd; Selvanayagam, Victor S.; Hamid, Mohamad Shariff A.; Yusof, Ashril								Prevalence, patterns and factors associated with injury: comparison between elite Malaysian able-bodied and para-badminton players								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				50	4			316	322		10.1080/00913847.2021.1930241			JUL 4 2022	2022	Objectives: This study aimed to determine and compare the prevalence, patterns and factors associated with injury between elite Malaysian able-bodied and para-badminton players. Methods: Medical records from July 2007 to December 2017 were reviewed. Results: Among 209 able-bodied players, 1010 injuries were reported. The injuries affected the lower limb (67.2%), sustained during training (94.2%), overuse in nature (38.7%), and involving mostly junior players (62.4%). The injury rate was 94/year, lower than previously reported. Patellar tendinopathy and muscle strain to the upper limb and torso were the commonest. Age, sex and history of injury were predictors of injury. Lower limb injury was a predictor of upper limb and torso injuries, while history of injury to the upper limb and/or torso was a predictor of lower limb injury. Meanwhile, among 18 para-badminton players, 62 injuries were reported from July 2014 to December 2017, which involved the lower limb (45.2%), sustained during training (87.1%), overuse in nature (54.8%), and involved mostly standing-class players (77.8%). The injury rate was 10/year. Patellar tendinopathy, rotator cuff tendinopathy and back muscle strain were the commonest. The patterns of injury (site, occasion and nature) were similar between groups, except for the shoulder where nature was overuse in para-badminton players compared to acute in able-bodied players. Conclusions: All players are susceptible to training-related injuries, particularly to the lower limb. Over the last decade, an increase in the injury index for the lower limb and a shift from chronic to acute for the upper limb were observed among able-bodied players. Age, sex and history of injury expose able-bodied players to greater risk. Meanwhile, for para-badminton players, overuse shoulder and knee injuries are commonest. These findings necessitate a comprehensive injury prevention program that encompasses all body regions with an emphasis on the lower limb among elite Malaysian able-bodied and para-badminton players.		[Jamali, Muhammad Noh Zulfikri Mohd] Univ Tunku Abdul Rahman, Dept Physiotherapy, Kajang, Malaysia; [Jamali, Muhammad Noh Zulfikri Mohd; Selvanayagam, Victor S.; Yusof, Ashril] Univ Malaya, Ctr Sport & Exercise Sci, Jalan Univ, Kuala Lumpur 50603, Malaysia; [Hamid, Mohamad Shariff A.] Univ Malaya, Unit Sports Med, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia; [Hamid, Mohamad Shariff A.] Natl Sports Inst Malaysia, Div Sports Med, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia; [Yusof, Ashril] Univ Malaya, Ctr Sport & Exercise Sci, Jalan Univ, Kuala Lumpur 50603, Malaysia								6							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000659342500001	44	Article; Article		
J	Xia, Haisheng; Huang, Yangjian; Chen, Gang; Cheng, Sulin; Cheung, Roy T. H.; Shull, Peter B.								Self-selected running gait modifications reduce acute impact loading, awkwardness, and effort								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	8			1043	1056		10.1080/14763141.2021.1916576			AUG 2 2024	2024	Impact loading has been associated with running-related injuries, and gait retraining has been suggested as a means of reducing impact loading and lowering the risk of injury. However, gait retraining can lead to increased perceived awkwardness and effort. The influence of specifically trained and self-selected running gait modifications on acute impact loading, perceived awkwardness and effort is currently unclear. Sixteen habitual rearfoot/midfoot runners performed forefoot strike pattern, increased step rate, anterior trunk lean and self-selected running gait modifications on an instrumented treadmill based on real-time biofeedback. Impact loading, perceived awkwardness and effort scores were compared among the four gait retraining conditions. Self-selected gait modification reduced vertical average loading rate (VALR) by 25.3%, vertical instantaneous loading rate (VILR) by 27.0%, vertical impact peak (VIP) by 16.8% as compared with baseline. Forefoot strike pattern reduced VALR, VILR and peak tibial acceleration. Increased step rate reduced VALR. Anterior trunk lean did not reduce any impact loading. Self-selected gait modification was perceived as less awkward and require less effort than the specifically trained gait modification (p < 0.05). These findings suggest that self-selected gait modification could be a more natural and less effortful strategy than specifically trained gait modification to reduce acute impact loading, while the clinical significance remains unknown.		[Xia, Haisheng] Univ Sci & Technol China, Dept Automat, Hefei, Peoples R China; [Huang, Yangjian; Shull, Peter B.] Shanghai Jiao Tong Univ, Sch Mech Engn, State Key Lab Mech Syst & Vibrat, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Chen, Gang; Cheng, Sulin] Shanghai Jiao Tong Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Cheng, Sulin] Shanghai Jiao Tong Univ, Exercise Translat Med Ctr, Shanghai Ctr Syst Biomed, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Cheng, Sulin] Univ Jyvaskyla, Fac Sport & Hlth Sci, Jyvaskyla, Finland; [Cheung, Roy T. H.] Western Sydney Univ, Sch Hlth Sci, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Cheng, Sulin] Shanghai Jiao Tong Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Cheng, Sulin] Shanghai Jiao Tong Univ, Exercise Translat Med Ctr, Shanghai Ctr Syst Biomed, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Cheng, Sulin] Univ Jyvaskyla, Fac Sport & Hlth Sci, Jyvaskyla, Finland								3							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000659395800001	38	Article; Article		
J	Giatsis, George; Tilp, Markus; Hatzimanouil, Dimitris; Dieckmann, Christoph; Stergiou, Nick								Beach volleyball spike arm swing techniques of Olympics and world championships winners (1996-2019) reveal gender differences								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	2			391	399	17479541211024151	10.1177/17479541211024151			APR 2022	2022	The spike attack is one of the most important skills in beach volleyball, and as an overarm movement, places significant load on the shoulder joint that could lead to increased risk of injury. An analysis of the different techniques used by elite athletes could provide important insights regarding the etiology of these injuries. This study aimed to assess the spike attack arm swing techniques of Olympics and World Championships (1996-2019) beach volleyball winners and to investigate possible gender differences. Twenty-five male and twenty female winners were assessed on video recordings from eighteen competitions. The different arm swing techniques in the cocking phase (Straight, Bow-and-arrow high, Bow-and-arrow low, Snap, and Circular) were classified by two experts. Intra-rater reliability of both experts (kappa = 1.000, P < .001 and kappa = .969, P < .001 respectively) and inter-rater reliability (kappa = .969, P < .001), assessed by Cohen's Kappa, were almost perfect. There were significant gender differences in arm swing techniques (P < .001) with a large size effect (Cramer's V = .650). The most frequent technique for men was the Bow-and-arrow low (56%) followed by Circular (24%) and Bow-and-arrow high (20%), while for women were the Bow-and-arrow high (30%) and Snap (30%), followed by Bow-and-arrow low (25%) and Straight (15%). The results showed a great variation in arm swing techniques even among world class beach volleyball players as well as significant gender differences, and could allow us to develop interesting hypotheses regarding the mechanisms that could lead to shoulder overuse injuries.		[Giatsis, George; Hatzimanouil, Dimitris] Aristotle Univ Thessaloniki, Dept Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Thessaloniki, Greece; [Tilp, Markus] Karl Franzens Univ Graz, Inst Human Movement Sci Sport & Hlth, Graz, Austria; [Dieckmann, Christoph] Swiss Volley, Switzerland Natl Beach Volleyball Coach, Bern, Switzerland; [Stergiou, Nick] Univ Nebraska, Dept Biomech, Omaha, NE 68182 USA; [Stergiou, Nick] Univ Nebraska, Ctr Res Human Movement Variabil, Omaha, NE 68182 USA; [Stergiou, Nick] Univ Nebraska Med Ctr, Coll Publ Hlth, Omaha, NE USA; [Giatsis, George] Aristotle Univ Thessaloniki, Sch Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Thessaloniki 57001, Greece								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000660915800001	43	Article; Article		
J	van Rensburg, Dina Christa Janse; Bryant, Grace; Kearney, Sharon; Singh, Praimanand; Devos, Arnold; van Rensburg, Audrey Jansen; Schwellnus, Martin P.; Botha, Tanita								The epidemiology of injury and illness at the Vitality Netball World Cup 2019: an observational study								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				50	4			359	368		10.1080/00913847.2021.1932632			JUL 4 2022	2022	Background: Netball is a physical game with sudden direction changes, decelerations, jumping and landing, stop/start maneuvers and restrictive footwork rules exposing players to injury. Close contact play and shared facilities during tournaments, increase illness risk. Objective: To describe incidence, period prevalence, types and severity of injuries and illnesses during the 10-day Vitality Netball World Cup 2019 (NWC). Methods: All players from 16 teams consented (n = 192). Medical staff recorded injuries (840 exposure hours), illnesses (1440 player-days) and time-loss. Main outcome measures included incidence (I) calculated as injury/1000 player-hours and illness/1000 player-days, period prevalence (PP) and severity (time-loss) of all match injuries and illnesses. Results: 39 players sustained 46 match injuries (I = 54.76; PP = 20.31%). Lower limb injuries (I = 29.76), specifically the ankle (I = 13.10) were most common with lateral ankle ligament sprains the highest (I = 17.39). Contact injuries (I = 40.48) significantly exceeded non-contact injuries (I = 14.29; p = 0.0124). Center players sustained most injuries (n = 12; 26%; I = 14.29), followed by goalkeepers (n = 10; 22%; I = 11.90) and goal defenders (n = 8; 17%; I = 9.52). Injuries occurred in almost 50% of matches, and 67% did not result in time-loss. Time-loss injuries (n = 14; 33%) were most frequent in the lower limb (n = 10; 71%) specifically involved lateral ankle ligaments (n = 4; 29%), attributable to contact (n = 11; 79%) and mostly implicated center players and goal defenders (n = 4 each; 29% each). 11 players contracted 11 illnesses (I = 7.64; PP = 5.72%) with respiratory tract illness contributing 36%. Most illnesses did not result in time-loss (91%). Conclusion: This is the first study reporting injury and illness during an NWC. Contact was the main mechanism of injury, and 2/3 of injuries did not result in time-loss. The ankle is most commonly injured and center players sustain most injuries. Non-respiratory system disease was most frequent, but upper respiratory tract infection remains the most common diagnosis. Targeted surveillance studies using similar methodology are required to develop injury and illness preventative strategies in elite netball.		[van Rensburg, Dina Christa Janse; van Rensburg, Audrey Jansen; Schwellnus, Martin P.] Univ Pretoria, Fac Hlth Sci, Sect Sports Med, Sports Campus Burnett St, ZA-0083 Pretoria, South Africa; [van Rensburg, Dina Christa Janse; van Rensburg, Audrey Jansen; Schwellnus, Martin P.] Univ Pretoria, Fac Hlth Sci, Sport Exercise Med Lifestyle Inst SEMLI, Sports Campus Burnett St, ZA-0083 Pretoria, South Africa; [van Rensburg, Dina Christa Janse; Kearney, Sharon; Singh, Praimanand] Int Netball Federat, Manchester, Lancs, England; [Bryant, Grace] Univ Sydney, Sports Med, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Bryant, Grace; Kearney, Sharon] Int Netball Federat, Med Board, Manchester, Lancs, England; [Kearney, Sharon] Univ Pretoria, Sports Med, Pretoria, South Africa; [Singh, Praimanand] Emergency Med Univ, Sports Med & Consultant, Kingston, Jamaica; [Devos, Arnold] Background Signal PL, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Schwellnus, Martin P.] Int Olymp Comm IOC Res Ctr, Pretoria, South Africa; [Botha, Tanita] Univ Pretoria, Fac Nat & Agr Sci, Dept Stat, Pretoria, South Africa; [van Rensburg, Dina Christa Janse] Univ Pretoria, Fac Hlth Sci, Sect Sports Med, Sports Campus Burnett St, ZA-0083 Pretoria, South Africa; [van Rensburg, Dina Christa Janse] Univ Pretoria, Fac Hlth Sci, Sport Exercise Med Lifestyle Inst SEMLI, Sports Campus Burnett St, ZA-0083 Pretoria, South Africa								7							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000658550600001	66	Article; Article		
J	Szabo, Sara W.; Kennedy, Michael D.								Practitioner perspectives of athlete recovery in paralympic sport								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	2			274	284	17479541211022706	10.1177/17479541211022706			APR 2022	2022	Athlete health and sport performance research for athletes with disabilities has increased substantially over the years as the level of competition and intensity in Paralympic sport has grown. However, relative to able-bodied sport, there remains some key areas of parasport research which are distinctly lacking. Athlete recovery, as a counterbalance to training stress and an important factor in preventing adverse health consequences such as illness and injury, is one of these understudied areas for elite para-athletes. Thus, the purpose of this descriptive qualitative study was to understand factors impacting recovery among Paralympic athletes, based on practitioner perspectives, with the aim of providing insightful guidance for applied practice. Semi-structured interviews were conducted with 15 North American sport practitioners who worked with elite para-athletes. Through thematic analysis, five main themes about optimizing athlete recovery in various populations of para-athletes were developed: a) prioritize the simple concepts, b) get to know the whole athlete, c) experience matters, d) musculoskeletal factors, and e) non-training load. Collectively, these results highlight how humanistic approaches to care, augmented by individual athlete expertise, extensive education, and a consideration of fundamental lifestyle factors is exceedingly important for para-athlete recovery. This study further describes that the approach to recovery among para-athletes, a diverse population, is uniquely complex from that of able-bodied sport and warrants scholarly attention.		[Szabo, Sara W.; Kennedy, Michael D.] Univ Alberta, Fac Kinesiol Sport & Recreat, Athlete Hlth Lab, 4-230 Van Vliet Complex, Edmonton, AB, Canada; [Szabo, Sara W.] Univ Alberta, Fac Kinesiol Sport & Recreat, Athlete Hlth Lab, 4-230 Van Vliet Complex, Edmonton, AB, Canada								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000657997700001	39	Article; Article		
J	Pirruccio, Kevin; Shin, Max; Ganley, Theodore J.; Kelly, John D.; Parisien, Robert L.								Rock climbing confers distinct injury risk in pediatric versus adult populations: an analysis of twenty-year national trends								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				50	4			343	348		10.1080/00913847.2021.1932631			JUL 4 2022	2022	Objectives: The sport of rock climbing has recently gained in popularity due in part to its adoption by noncompetitive athletes as a physical activity with a level of intensity that can be self-regulated. However, the epidemiology of rock climbing injuries is poorly described at the national level. Methods: We report demographic and injury characteristics from 85,235 national weighted estimates of rock climbing injuries presenting to United States (US) emergency departments (EDs) between 2000 and 2019 in the National Electronic Injury Surveillance System, stratifying by whether patients were <= 18 years of age (A) or >= 19 years of age (B). Results: The national weighted estimate of patients presenting to US EDs with injuries associated with rock climbing rose significantly (p < 0.001) from 2000 (2,667, CI 1,777-3,557) to 2019 (7,087, CI 4,544-9,630). Patients <= 18 years of age were significantly less likely to be male (A: 56.3%, CI 52.0-60.6%; B: 64.7%; CI 60.4-69.0%; p = 0.003), sustain injuries on weekends (A: 29.8%, 24.5-35.1%; B: 64.7%, CI 60.4-69.0%; p = 0.002), or sustain injuries during summer seasons (A: 26.6%, CI 22.1-31.1%; B: 33.2%, CI 28.1-38.3%; p = 0.049). Multivariate logistic regression demonstrated that patients <= 18 years of age were significantly more likely to present to EDs with head and neck (OR: 1.52, CI 1.04-2.21; p = 0.032) or upper extremity (OR: 1.55; CI 1.24-1.93; p < 0.001) injuries associated with rock climbing. Conclusion: We identified a significant increase in the annual estimated number of patients presenting to US EDs with rock climbing injuries compared to what has previously been reported. As the number of climbers continues to grow, standardized safety policies may be implemented that specifically target injury mechanisms and patterns unique to both adult and pediatric populations.		[Pirruccio, Kevin; Shin, Max] Univ Penn, Perelman Sch Med, 3400 Spruce St, Philadelphia, PA 19104 USA; [Ganley, Theodore J.] Childrens Hosp Philadelphia, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Philadelphia, PA 19104 USA; [Kelly, John D.] Univ Penn, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Philadelphia, PA 19104 USA; [Parisien, Robert L.] Harvard Med Sch, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Boston, MA 02115 USA; [Parisien, Robert L.] Boston Childrens Hosp, Boston, MA USA; [Pirruccio, Kevin] Univ Penn, Perelman Sch Med, 3400 Spruce St, Philadelphia, PA 19104 USA								4							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000657357500001	27	Article; Article		
J	Turner, Anthony N.; Parmar, Nimai; Jovanovski, Alex; Hearne, Gary								Assessing Group-Based Changes in High-Performance Sport. Part 1: Null Hypothesis Significance Testing and the Utility of <i>p</i> Values								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				43	3			112	116		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000625			JUN 2021	2021	The role of a strength and conditioning coach (SCC) has evolved over the last 10 years to accommodate the large influx of data now available. As such, today's SCC must extend their skill set to include data analysis, understanding the validity and utility of p values, effect sizes, confidence intervals, and terms such as the smallest worthwhile change, and minimal difference. The aim of part one of this 2-part review is to define and discuss the utility of null hypothesis significance testing, p values, and error rates. In part 2, we introduce effect sizes, measures of variability, and confidence intervals, culminating in recommendations as to which may be the most viable options within the context of performance-based sport, and thus potential methods to report group-based changes.		[Turner, Anthony N.; Parmar, Nimai; Jovanovski, Alex] Middlesex Univ, London Sports Inst, Allianz Pk,Greenlands Lane, London, England; [Hearne, Gary] Middlesex Univ, Dept Design Engn & Maths, Hendon, England; [Turner, Anthony N.] Middlesex Univ, London Sports Inst, Allianz Pk,Greenlands Lane, London, England								9							Sport Sciences	WOS:000711774600010	25	Article; Article		
J	Lasshofer, Michael; Seifert, John; Woerndle, Anna-Maria; Stoeggl, Thomas								Physiological Responses and Predictors of Performance in a Simulated Competitive Ski Mountaineering Race								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				20	2			250	257		10.52082/jssm.2021.250			JUN 2021	2021	Competitive ski mountaineering (SKIMO) has achieved great popularity within the past years. However, knowledge about the predictors of performance and physiological response to SKIMO racing is limited. Therefore, 21 male SKIMO athletes split into two performance groups (elite: VO2max 71.2 +/- 6.8 ml. min(-1). kg(-1) vs. sub-elite: 62.5 +/- 4.7 ml. min(-1). kg(-1)) were tested and analysed during a vertical SKIMO race simulation (523 m elevation gain) and in a laboratory SKIMO specific ramp test. In both cases, oxygen consumption (VO2), heart rate (HR), blood lactate and cycle characteristics were measured. During the race simulation, the elite athletes were approximately 5 min faster compared with the sub-elite (27:15 +/- 1:16 min; 32:31 +/- 2:13 min; p < 0.001). VO2 was higher for elite athletes during the race simulation (p = 0.046) and in the laboratory test at ventilatory threshold 2 (p = 0.005) and at maximum VO2 (p = 0.003). Laboratory maximum power output is displayed as treadmill speed and was higher for elite than sub-elite athletes (7.4 +/- 0.3 km h(-1); 6.6 +/- 0.3 km h(-1); p < 0.001). Lactate values were higher in the laboratory maximum ramp test than in the race simulation (p < 0.001). Pearson's correlation coefficient between race time and performance parameters was highest for velocity and VO2 related parameters during the laboratory test (r > 0.6). Elite athletes showed their superiority in the race simulation as well as during the maximum ramp test. While HR analysis revealed a similar strain to both cohorts in both tests, the superiority can be explainable by higher VO2 and power output. To further push the performance of SKIMO athletes, the development of named factors like power output at maximum and ventilatory threshold 2 seems crucial.		[Lasshofer, Michael; Seifert, John; Woerndle, Anna-Maria; Stoeggl, Thomas] Univ Salzburg, Dept Sport & Exercise Sci, Schlossallee 49, A-5400 Hallein Rif, Austria; [Seifert, John] Montana State Univ, Dept Hlth & Human Dev, Bozeman, MT 59717 USA; [Stoeggl, Thomas] Red Bull Athlete Performance Ctr, Salzburg, Austria; [Stoeggl, Thomas] Univ Salzburg, Dept Sport & Exercise Sci, Schlossallee 49, A-5400 Hallein Rif, Austria								21							Sport Sciences	WOS:000642336900009	28	Article; Article		
J	Marshall, Erica M.; Parks, Jason C.; Singer, Tyler J.; Tai, Yu Lun; DeBord, Alexa R.; Humm, Stacie M.; Kingsley, J. Derek								Vascular Responses to High-Intensity Battling Rope Exercise between the Sexes								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				20	2			349	356		10.52082/jssm.2021.349			JUN 2021	2021	The purpose of the study was to assess high-intensity battling rope exercise (HI-BRE) on hemodynamics, pulse wave reflection and arterial stiffness during recovery and between sexes. Twenty-three young, healthy resistance-trained individuals (men: n = 13; women: n = 10) were assessed for all measures at Rest, as well as 10-, 30-, and 60-minutes following HI-BRE. A one-way repeated measures ANOVA was used to analyze the effects of HI-BRE across time (Rest, 10, 30, and 60-minutes) on all dependent variables. Significant main effects were analyzed using paired t-tests with a Sidak correction factor. Significance was accepted a priori at p <= 0.05. There were significant reductions in hemodynamic measures of diastolic blood pressure (BP) in women, but not men following HI-BRE at 30 minutes. Further, measures of pulse wave reflection, specifically those of the augmentation index (AIx) and wasted left ventricular energy (Delta E-w), were significantly increased in both men and women for 60 minutes, but changes were significantly attenuated in women suggesting less ventricular work. There were also significant increases in arterial stiffness in regard to the aorta and common carotid artery that were fully recovered by 30 and 60 minutes, respectively with no differences between men and women. Thus, the primary findings of this study suggest that measures of hemodynamics and pulse wave reflection are collectively altered for at least 60 minutes following HI-BRE, with women having attenuated responses compared to men.		[Marshall, Erica M.; Parks, Jason C.; Singer, Tyler J.; Tai, Yu Lun; DeBord, Alexa R.; Humm, Stacie M.; Kingsley, J. Derek] Kent State Univ, Cardiovasc Dynam Lab, Kent, OH 44240 USA; [Marshall, Erica M.] Florida Southern Coll, Lakeland, FL 33801 USA; [Parks, Jason C.] State Univ New York Cortland, Cortland, NY 13045 USA; [Singer, Tyler J.] Fairmont State Univ, Fairmont, WV USA; [Tai, Yu Lun] Univ Texas Rio Grande Valley, Brownsville, TX USA; [DeBord, Alexa R.] Colorado State Univ, Ft Collins, CO 80523 USA; [Marshall, Erica M.] Kent State Univ, Cardiovasc Dynam Lab, Kent, OH 44240 USA; [Marshall, Erica M.] Florida Southern Coll, Lakeland, FL 33801 USA								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:000642336900020	39	Article; Article		
J	Whitten, Joseph H. D.; Hodgson, Daniel D.; Drinkwater, Eric J.; Prieske, Olaf; Aboodarda, Saied Jalal; Behm, David G.								Unilateral Quadriceps Fatigue Induces Greater Impairments of Ipsilateral versus Contralateral Elbow Flexors and Plantar Flexors Performance in Physically Active Young Adults								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				20	2			300	309		10.52082/jssm.2021.300			JUN 2021	2021	Non-local muscle fatigue (NLMF) studies have examined crossover impairments of maximal voluntary force output in non-exercised, contralateral muscles as well as comparing upper and lower limb muscles. Since prior studies primarily investigated contralateral muscles, the purpose of this study was to compare NLMF effects on elbow flexors (EF) and plantar flexors (PF) force and activation (electromyography: EMG). Secondly, possible differences when testing ipsilateral or contralateral muscles with a single or repeated isometric maximum voluntary contractions (MVC) were also investigated. Twelve participants (six males: (27.3 +/- 2.5 years, 186.0 +/- 2.2 cm, 91.0 +/- 4.1 kg; six females: 23.0 +/- 1.6 years, 168.2 +/- 6.7 cm, 60.0 +/- 4.3 kg) attended six randomized sessions where ipsilateral or contralateral PF or EF MVC force and EMG activity (root mean square) were tested following a dominant knee extensors (KE) fatigue intervention (2x100s MVC) or equivalent rest (control). Testing involving a single MVC (5s) was completed by the ipsilateral or contralateral PF or EF prior to and immediately post-interventions. One minute after the post-intervention single MVC, a 12x5s MVCs fatigue test was completed. Two-way repeated measures ANOVAs revealed that ipsilateral EF post-fatigue force was lower (-6.6%, p = 0.04, d = 0.18) than pre-fatigue with no significant changes in the contralateral or control conditions. EF demonstrated greater fatigue indexes for the ipsilateral (9.5%, p = 0.04, d = 0.75) and contralateral (20.3%, p < 0.01, d = 1.50) EF over the PF, respectively. There were no significant differences in PF force, EMG or EF EMG post-test or during the MVCs fatigue test. The results suggest that NLMF effects are side and muscle specific where prior KE fatigue could hinder subsequent ipsilateral upper body performance and thus is an important consideration for rehabilitation, recreation and athletic programs.		[Whitten, Joseph H. D.; Hodgson, Daniel D.; Drinkwater, Eric J.; Behm, David G.] Mem Univ Newfoundland, Sch Human Kinet & Recreat, St John, NF, Canada; [Drinkwater, Eric J.] Deakin Univ, Ctr Sport Res, Sch Exercise & Nutr Sci, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Prieske, Olaf] Univ Appl Sci Sports & Management Potsdam, Div Exercise & Movement, Potsdam, Germany; [Aboodarda, Saied Jalal] Univ Calgary, Fac Kinesiol, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Behm, David G.] Mem Univ Newfoundland, Sch Human Kinet & Recreat, St John, NF, Canada								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:000642336900015	73	Article; Article		
J	Perez-Castilla, Alejandro; Garcia-Ramos, Amador; Janicijevic, Danica; Miras-Moreno, Sergio; Carlos De la Cruz, Juan; Javier Rojas, F.; Cepero, Mar								Unilateral or Bilateral Standing Broad Jumps: Which Jump Type Provides Inter-Limb Asymmetries with a Higher Reliability?								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				20	2			317	327		10.52082/jssm.2021.317			JUN 2021	2021	This study aimed to compare the between-session reliability of performance and asymmetry variables between unilateral and bilateral standing broad jumps (SBJ). Twenty-four amateur basketball players (12 males and females) completed two identical sessions which consisted of four unilateral SBJs (two with each leg) and two bilateral SBJs. Mean and peak values of force, velocity and power, and impulse were obtained separately for each leg using a dual force platform. Inter-limb asymmetries were computed using the standard percentage difference for the unilateral SBJ, and the bilateral asymmetry index-1 for the bilateral SBJ. All performance variables generally presented an acceptable absolute reliability for both SBJs (CV range = 3.65-9.81%) with some exceptions for mean force, mean power, and peak power obtained with both legs (CV range = 10.00-15.46%). Three out of 14 variables were obtained with higher reliability during the unilateral SBJ (CVratio >= 1.18), and 5 out of 14 during the bilateral SBJ (CVratio >= 1.27). Asymmetry variables always showed unacceptable reliability (ICCrange = -0.40 to 0.58), and slight to fair levels of agreement in their direction (Kappa range = -0.12 to 0.40) except for unilateral SBJ peak velocity [Kappa = 0.52] and bilateral SBJ peak power [Kappa = 0.51]) that showed moderate agreement for both SBJs. These results highlight that single-leg performance variables can be generally obtained with acceptable reliability regardless of the SBJ variant, but the reliability of the inter-limb asymmetries in the conditions examined in the present study is unacceptable to track individual changes in performance.		[Perez-Castilla, Alejandro; Garcia-Ramos, Amador; Miras-Moreno, Sergio; Carlos De la Cruz, Juan; Javier Rojas, F.] Univ Granada, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Granada, Spain; [Garcia-Ramos, Amador] Univ Catolica Santisima Concepcion, Fac Educ, Dept Sports Sci & Phys Conditioning, Concepcion, Chile; [Janicijevic, Danica] Univ Belgrade, Fac Sport & Phys Educ, Res Ctr, Belgrade, Serbia; [Cepero, Mar] Univ Granada, Fac Educ Sci, Dept Didact Mus Plast & Corporal Express, Granada, Spain; [Garcia-Ramos, Amador] Univ Granada, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Granada, Spain; [Garcia-Ramos, Amador] Univ Catolica Santisima Concepcion, Fac Educ, Dept Sports Sci & Phys Conditioning, Concepcion, Chile								13							Sport Sciences	WOS:000642336900017	44	Article; Article		
J	Otsuki, Reiko; Benoit, Daniel; Hirose, Norikazu; Fukubayashi, Toru								Effects of an Injury Prevention Program on Anterior Cruciate Ligament Injury Risk Factors in Adolescent Females at Different Stages of Maturation								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				20	2			365	372		10.52082/jssm.2021.365			JUN 2021	2021	The ideal timing to implement anterior cruciate ligament injury prevention programs with respect to maturation is unclear. The purpose of this study was to investigate the effects of an injury prevention program on knee mechanics in early-, late-, and postpubertal females. In the study, 178 adolescent female basketball players were assigned to six groups: early-pubertal training, early-pubertal control, late-pubertal training, and late-pubertal control, post-pubertal training, and post-pubertal control. The training groups performed an injury prevention program for six months. Medial knee displacement, knee flexion range of motion, and the probability of high knee abduction moment were assessed before and after the training period. After the six-month training period, medial knee displacement was significantly increased in the early-pubertal control group whereas it was unchanged in the early-pubertal training group. Knee flexion range of motion was significantly decreased in the early-pubertal control group whereas it did not change in the early-pubertal training group. The probability of high knee abduction moment was increased in the early-pubertal control group whereas it was unchanged in the earl-pubertal training group. The probability of high knee abduction moment was also decreased in the post-pubertal training group whereas it did not change in the post-pubertal control group. The program limited the development of high-risk movement patterns associated with maturation in early puberty while improving the knee mechanics in post-pubertal adolescents. Therefore, an injury prevention program should be initiated in early puberty and continue through the post-puberty years.		[Otsuki, Reiko; Hirose, Norikazu; Fukubayashi, Toru] Waseda Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Saitama, Japan; [Otsuki, Reiko; Benoit, Daniel] Univ Ottawa, Fac Hlth Sci, Ottawa, ON, Canada; [Otsuki, Reiko] Waseda Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Saitama, Japan; [Otsuki, Reiko] Univ Ottawa, Fac Hlth Sci, Ottawa, ON, Canada								15							Sport Sciences	WOS:000642336900022	45	Article; Article		
J	Dos'Santos, Thomas; Thomas, Christopher; Jones, Paul A.								Assessing Interlimb Asymmetries: Are We Heading in the Right Direction?								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				43	3			91	100		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000590			JUN 2021	2021	The investigation of interlimb asymmetries has increased in recent years, with practitioners and researchers typically exploring the impact of interlimb asymmetry on athletic performance, screening interlimb asymmetry in relation to injury risk, and monitoring of interlimb asymmetry during injury rehabilitation. A contentious issue regarding the profiling of interlimb asymmetry is the use of thresholds to determine whether an athlete displays a "meaningful" or potentially "problematic" asymmetry and how to interpret such data. This article aims to outline the potential options available for practitioners and researchers regarding the quantification, monitoring, and interpretation of interlimb asymmetries. A video abstract is available for this article (http://links.lww.com/SCJ/A296).		[Dos'Santos, Thomas] Manchester Metropolitan Univ, Musculoskeletal Sci & Sports Med Res Ctr, Dept Sport & Exercise Sci, Manchester, Lancs, England; [Thomas, Christopher; Jones, Paul A.] Univ Safford, Directorate Sport Exercise & Physiotherapy, Manchester, England; [Dos'Santos, Thomas] Manchester Metropolitan Univ, Musculoskeletal Sci & Sports Med Res Ctr, Dept Sport & Exercise Sci, Manchester, Lancs, England								53							Sport Sciences	WOS:000711774600008	68	Article; Article		
J	Hernandez-Davo, Jose L.; Loturco, Irineu; Pereira, Lucas A.; Cesari, Ricard; Pratdesaba, Jordi; Madruga-Parera, Marc; Sanz-Rivas, David; Fernandez-Fernandez, Jaime								Relationship between Sprint, Change of Direction, Jump, and Hexagon Test Performance in Young Tennis Players								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				20	2			197	203		10.52082/jssm.2021.197			JUN 2021	2021	The hexagon agility test is widely used in tennis players' fitness evaluation, although its validity has not been fully stablished. This study aimed to assess the relationships between sprinting, jumping, and change of direction (COD) ability and hexagon test performance. Thirty-five under-16 tennis players completed a testing battery including the hexagon test, 20-m linear sprint, bilateral and unilateral countermovement jumps (CMJ), triple leg-hop for distance, T-Test, 5-0-5 and Pro-Agility test on two different sessions, separated by one week. The intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC) and the standard error of measurement (SEM) were used to assess the reliability of the test. Pearson's product correlations (r) were used to analyze the relationships between the hexagon test and the other fitness tests. Statistical significance was set at p < 0.05. The hexagon test showed high relative reliability (ICC = 0.88) and low SEM values (0.17 s). Significant small to large correlations were found between the hexagon test time and linear sprint time (r = 0.40 to 0.60), COD tests (r = 0.53 to 0.79), and jumping performance (r = -0.40 to -0.68). The hexagon test is a simple, quick, easy-to-implement and reliable test, which allow it to be included in tennis players' testing batteries. The test is related to measures of speed, power and agility, although the magnitude of these relationships does not allow for the replacement of the more traditional assessments (e.g., CMJ, 20-m sprint, T-Test) within tennis players' testing batteries.		[Hernandez-Davo, Jose L.] Univ Isabel I de Castilla, Fac Hlth Sci, Burgos, Spain; [Loturco, Irineu; Pereira, Lucas A.] NAR Nucleus High Performance Sport, BR-04753060 Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Loturco, Irineu; Pereira, Lucas A.] Univ Fed Sao Paulo, Dept Human Movement Sci, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Loturco, Irineu] Univ South Wales, Pontypridd, M Glam, Wales; [Cesari, Ricard; Pratdesaba, Jordi] Real Club Tenis Barcelona RCTB, Barcelona, Spain; [Madruga-Parera, Marc] Univ Girona, Univ Sch Hlth & Sport EUSES, Girona, Spain; [Sanz-Rivas, David; Fernandez-Fernandez, Jaime] Tennis Performance Res Grp, Madrid, Spain; [Fernandez-Fernandez, Jaime] Univ Leon, Dept Phys Act & Sports Sci, Leon, Spain; [Fernandez-Fernandez, Jaime] Univ Leon, Human Movement & Sports Performance Anal, AMRED, Leon, Spain; [Fernandez-Fernandez, Jaime] Univ Leon, Dept Phys Act & Sports Sci, Leon, Spain								50							Sport Sciences	WOS:000642336900003	31	Article; Article		
J	Soga, Toshiaki; Nishiumi, Daichi; Furusho, Atsuya; Akiyama, Kei; Hirose, Norikazu								Effect of Different Slopes of the Lower Leg during the Nordic Hamstring Exercise on Hamstring Electromyography Activity								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				20	2			216	221		10.52082/jssm.2021.216			JUN 2021	2021	The purpose of this study was to examine whether the NHE with an increased lower leg slope angle would enhance hamstring EMG activity in the final phase of the descend. The hamstring EMG activity was measured, the biceps femoris long head (BFlh) and the semitendinosus (ST). Fifteen male volunteers participated in this study. Subjects performed a prone leg curl with maximal voluntary isometric contraction to normalize the hamstring EMG activity. Subsequently, subjects performed the NHE, with the help of a certified strength and conditioning specialist, while the lower leg slope angle were randomly set at 0 degrees (NH), 20 degrees (N20), and 40 degrees (N40). To compare hamstring EMG activity during the NHE variations, the knee flexion angle was set in the range from 0 degrees to 50 degrees, divided into five phases (0-10 degrees, 10-20 degrees, 20-30 degrees, 30-40 degrees and 40-50 degrees), where 0 degrees indicated that the knee was fully extended. To calculate the knee extension angular velocity, the knee flexion angle divided by time, and break point angle (BPA) was the angle at which 10 degrees/s was exceeded. In the statistical analysis, a two-way repeated measures ANOVA was used for the hamstring EMG activity and a one-way repeated measures ANOVA was used for the BPA. The EMG activity of the BFlh and the ST in N20 and N40 was significantly higher than in NH at knee flexion angle of 0-20 degrees (p < 0.05). For the BPA, NH (57.75 degrees +/- 13.28 degrees), N20 (36.27 degrees +/- 9.89 degrees) and N40 (16.26 degrees +/- 9.58 degrees) were significantly higher in that order (p < 0.05). The results of this study revealed that the NHE with an increased lower leg slope angle shifted the BPA to the lower knee flexion angle and enhanced the hamstring EMG activity in the final phase of the descent.		[Soga, Toshiaki; Nishiumi, Daichi; Furusho, Atsuya; Hirose, Norikazu] Waseda Univ, Grad Sch Sport Sci, Tokyo, Japan; [Akiyama, Kei; Hirose, Norikazu] Waseda Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Tokyo, Japan; [Hirose, Norikazu] Waseda Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Tokyo, Japan								15							Sport Sciences	WOS:000642336900005	24	Article; Article		
J	Benson, Lauren C.; Stilling, Carlyn; Owoeye, Oluwatoyosi B. A.; Emery, Carolyn A.								Evaluating Methods for Imputing Missing Data from Longitudinal Monitoring of Athlete Workload								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				20	2			188	196		10.52082/jssm.2021.188			JUN 2021	2021	Missing data can influence calculations of accumulated athlete workload. The objectives were to identify the best single imputation methods and examine workload trends using multiple imputation. External (jumps per hour) and internal (rating of perceived exertion; RPE) workload were recorded for 93 (45 females, 48 males) high school basketball players throughout a season. Recorded data were simulated as missing and imputed using ten imputation methods based on the context of the individual, team and session. Both single imputation and machine learning methods were used to impute the simulated missing data. The difference between the imputed data and the actual workload values was computed as root mean squared error (RMSE). A generalized estimating equation determined the effect of imputation method on RMSE. Multiple imputation of the original dataset, with all known and actual missing workload data, was used to examine trends in longitudinal workload data. Following multiple imputation, a Pearson correlation evaluated the longitudinal association between jump count and sRPE over the season. A single imputation method based on the specific context of the session for which data are missing (team mean) was only outperformed by methods that combine information about the session and the individual (machine learning models). There was a significant and strong association between jump count and sRPE in the original data and imputed datasets using multiple imputation. The amount and nature of the missing data should be considered when choosing a method for single imputation of workload data in youth basketball. Multiple imputation using several predictor variables in a regression model can be used for analyses where workload is accumulated across an entire season.		[Benson, Lauren C.] US Olymp & Paralymp Comm, Colorado Springs, CO 80903 USA; [Benson, Lauren C.; Stilling, Carlyn; Owoeye, Oluwatoyosi B. A.; Emery, Carolyn A.] Univ Calgary, Fac Kinesiol, Sport Injury Prevent Res Ctr, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Owoeye, Oluwatoyosi B. A.] St Louis Univ, Dept Phys Therapy & Athlet Training, Doisy Coll Hlth Sci, St Louis, MO USA; [Emery, Carolyn A.] Univ Calgary, Alberta Childrens Hosp Res Inst, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Emery, Carolyn A.] Univ Calgary, Cumming Sch Med, McCaig Bone & Joint Inst, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Emery, Carolyn A.] Univ Calgary, Cumming Sch Med, Dept Community Hlth Sci, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Emery, Carolyn A.] Univ Calgary, Cumming Sch Med, Dept Pediat, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Benson, Lauren C.] US Olymp & Paralymp Comm, Colorado Springs, CO 80903 USA; [Benson, Lauren C.] Univ Calgary, Fac Kinesiol, Sport Injury Prevent Res Ctr, Calgary, AB, Canada								18							Sport Sciences	WOS:000642336900002	43	Article; Article		
J	Morga, Paulina; Cieslik, Blazej; Sekulowicz, Malgorzata; Bujnowska-Fedak, Maria; Drower, Iris; Szczepanska-Gieracha, Joanna								Low-Intensity Exercise as a Modifier of Depressive Symptoms and Self-Perceived Stress Level in Women with Metabolic Syndrome								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				20	2			222	228		10.52082/jssm.2021.222			JUN 2021	2021	The study aims to determine the impact of low-intensity exercise and psychoeducation on depressive symptoms and self-perceived stress in women with metabolic syndrome (MetS). Seventy-four women (mean age 69.35 +/- 7.20) were included in the study. Participants were divided into two groups: those with MetS (n = 33) and those without MetS (n = 41). Subjects participated in low-intensity general-fitness exercise sessions combined with psychoeducation distributed regularly over a 12-week period. Participants completed the Geriatric Depression Scale-15 (GDS) and the Stress Level Questionnaire (SLQ) before and after the intervention. All investigated parameters significantly decreased for the participants with metabolic syndrome after the intervention. The level of GDS in this group decreased by approximately 37% (p < 0.01), and SLQ by around 23% ( p < 0.01). Our results suggest, that low-intensity exercise combined with psychoeducation could lower depressive symptoms and stress level in women with MetS. However, the intervention does not lower anthropometric parameter scores.		[Morga, Paulina; Sekulowicz, Malgorzata] Univ Sch Phys Educ Wroclaw, Fac Phys Educ, Wroclaw, Poland; [Cieslik, Blazej] Jan Dlugosz Univ Czestochowa, Fac Hlth Sci, Czestochowa, Poland; [Bujnowska-Fedak, Maria] Wroclaw Med Univ, Family Med Dept, Wroclaw, Poland; [Drower, Iris] Arizona State Univ, Mary Lou Fulton Teachers Coll, Tempe, AZ USA; [Szczepanska-Gieracha, Joanna] Univ Sch Phys Educ Wroclaw, Fac Physiotherapy, Wroclaw, Poland; [Cieslik, Blazej] Jan Dlugosz Univ Czestochowa, Fac Hlth Sci, Czestochowa, Poland								16							Sport Sciences	WOS:000642336900006	44	Article; Article		
J	Mullally, Elaine M.; Clark, Nicholas C.								Noncontact Knee Soft-Tissue Injury Prevention Considerations and Practical Applications for Netball Players								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				43	3			9	28		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000609			JUN 2021	2021	Netball is a team sport played worldwide. High-risk landing events containing biomechanical potential for noncontact knee soft-tissue injury (STI) occur frequently. Subsequently, noncontact knee STI is common after knee abduction collapse during landing tasks. Lower-limb mobility, strength, balance, movement, and hop test characteristics (intrinsic, modifiable risk factors) are associated with high-risk landing biomechanics and noncontact knee STI events. Such risk factors should be considered in netball-specific noncontact knee STI prevention preparticipation screening. Corresponding training methods should be included as indicated in netball-specific multimodal noncontact knee STI prevention programs. This article provides insight into noncontact knee injury-related aspects of netball and gives detailed suggestions for injury prevention screening and programming.		[Mullally, Elaine M.] St Marys Univ, Fac Sport Allied Hlth & Performance Sci, Sport Rehabil Programs, Twickenham, Middx, England; [Clark, Nicholas C.] Univ Essex, Sch Sport Rehabil & Exercise Sci, Physiotherapy Programs, Colchester, Essex, England; [Mullally, Elaine M.] St Marys Univ, Fac Sport Allied Hlth & Performance Sci, Sport Rehabil Programs, Twickenham, Middx, England								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:000711774600002	186	Article; Article		
J	Finch, David J.; Abeza, Gashaw; O'Reilly, Norm; Nadeau, John; Levallet, Nadege; Legg, David; Foster, Bill								Season ticket holder segmentation in professional sports: an application of the sports relationship marketing model								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				23	1			110	131		10.1108/IJSMS-08-2020-0150			JAN 11 2022	2022	Purpose The segmentation of customers into homogeneous groups is well researched, reflecting its importance to marketers. Specific to professional sports, published research on customer segmentation first occurred in the early 2000s, but no studies exist based on internal data from season ticket holders, an attractive and loyal customer group which is the most important customer for professional sports teams. Thus, the purpose of this research was to fill this gap in the literature through a sequential study of season ticket holders of a professional sports club. Design/methodology/approach Study 1 employed six focus groups (n = 56) to determine the constructs, understand the issues, and sequentially inform the survey instrument for the second study. Study 2 used an online survey (n = 1,007) to collect data on factors including socio-demographics, consumption, media engagement, fan satisfaction, future intentions and sports fan motivation. Findings The results identified the engagement factors and selection variables which drive season ticket holder purchase and allowed for the segmentation analysis, which identified fourteen unique fan segments for a professional sports club, generalizable to other clubs. Originality/value The identification of 14 segments of season ticket holders based on a sequential study framed by the sports relationship marketing model is a needed contribution for practice (i.e. a specific direction on how to efficiently allocate resources when marketing to season ticket holders) and advances our conceptual knowledge by applying the model to the context of the most loyal customers in professional sports season ticket holders.		[Finch, David J.; Legg, David] Mt Royal Univ, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Abeza, Gashaw] Towson Univ, Towson, MD USA; [O'Reilly, Norm] Univ Guelph, Guelph, ON, Canada; [Nadeau, John] Nipissing Univ, North Bay, ON, Canada; [Levallet, Nadege] Univ Guelph, Gordon S Lang Sch Business & Econ, Guelph, ON, Canada; [Foster, Bill] Univ Alberta, Edmonton, AB, Canada; [O'Reilly, Norm] Univ Guelph, Guelph, ON, Canada								9							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000657654400001	70	Article; Article		
J	Hoge, Connor; Sabbagh, Ramsey; Morgan, Malik; Grawe, Brian M.								Epidemiology of youth and high school American football-related injuries presenting to United States emergency departments: 2010-2019								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				50	4			332	337		10.1080/00913847.2021.1931980			JUL 4 2022	2022	Objectives: American football is one of the most popular sports in the United States (US) among youth and high school athletes; however, participation is decreasing due to concerns about safety. This has led to many new safety initiatives over the last decade, but few studies have sought to evaluate if these interventions have made football safer. The purpose of this study is to investigate national-level data on football-related injuries to compare the injury characteristics and specific injury risks of high school and youth athletes over the last decade. Methods: This cross-sectional, retrospective study queried the National Electronic Injury Surveillance System (NEISS) database from 2010-2019 to compare national weighted estimates and injury characteristics of youth (ages 6-12) and high school (ages 14-18) athletes presenting to US emergency departments (EDs) with football-associated injuries. Results: The overall injury risk of football-related injuries presenting to US EDs for high school athletes was 16.17 (C.I. 13.85-18.38) per 1,000 participants/year compared to 11.97 (C.I. 10.34-13.41) per 1,000 participants/year in youth athletes. From 2010 to 2019, the overall injury risk for youth athletes participating in football significantly (p < 0.0001) decreased from 13.31 (C.I. 11.23-15.38) per 1,000 participants to 9.93 (C.I. 7.24-12.62) per 1,000 participants. Additionally, the overall injury risk for high school athletes participating in football significantly (p < 0.0001) decreased from 2010 (N = 18.63 [C.I. 16.05-21.21] per 1,000 participants) to 2018 (N = 13.19 [C.I. 9.94-16.44] per 1,000 participants). High school athletes were almost twice as likely and 2.37 times more likely to present with knee and shoulder injuries compared to youth athletes per 1,000 participants/year. Conclusion: Our study provides evidence that the overall injury risk for both youth and high school football players has significantly decreased since 2010. Furthermore, our study demonstrates that these athletes sustain unique injury characteristics.		[Hoge, Connor; Sabbagh, Ramsey; Morgan, Malik; Grawe, Brian M.] Univ Cincinnati, Dept Orthopaed & Sports Med, 231 Albert Sabin Way, Cincinnati, OH 45529 USA; [Hoge, Connor] Univ Cincinnati, Dept Orthopaed & Sports Med, 231 Albert Sabin Way, Cincinnati, OH 45529 USA								6							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000656322100001	23	Article; Article		
J	Tribolet, Rhys; Sheehan, William Bradshaw; Novak, Andrew Roman; Watsford, Mark Langley; Fransen, Job								How does practice change across the season? A descriptive study of the training structures and practice activities implemented by a professional Australian football team								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	1			63	72	17479541211019829	10.1177/17479541211019829			FEB 2022	2022	There is limited research investigating objective practice monitoring in team sports. This observational study examined the practice activities used by eight professional coaches across 72 different practice sessions in one season within a professional Australian football team. This study aimed to evaluate the extent to which these practice types differed from those shown to facilitate skill acquisition in team sports. Across the whole season (pre-season and in-season), coaches implemented seven practice types which were categorised into training-form and playing-form. Practice type frequencies were different between pre- and in-season (chi(2) = 109.6, p< 0.001). Significant differences were reported for practice type duration between pre-season and in-season (p = 0.023, d = -0.17), where in-season activities were longer. Coaches implemented a higher percentage of practice time to playing-form activities in-season (62.0 +/- 25.4) compared to pre-season (52.4 +/- 19.8) [95%CI: -2.35:21.4]. Coaches were more likely to alter the frequency of practice types, rather than the exposure time. Players performed more training-form activities during pre-season than in-season (chi(2) = 30.8, p< 0.001). There were no differences in playing-form activities between pre- and in-season. This study provides insights into the practice activities implemented by professional Australian football coaches and discusses the extent to which they represent best practice in the context of skill acquisition.		[Tribolet, Rhys; Sheehan, William Bradshaw; Novak, Andrew Roman; Watsford, Mark Langley; Fransen, Job] Univ Technol Sydney, Human Performance Res Ctr, Fac Hlth, Sch Sport Exercise & Rehabil, Ultimo, Australia; [Tribolet, Rhys] Univ Technol Sydney, Human Performance Res Ctr, Fac Hlth, Sch Sport Exercise & Rehabil, Ultimo, Australia								11							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000663614600001	38	Article; Article		
J	Soriano, Marcos A.; Haff, G. Gregory; Comfort, Paul; Amaro-Gahete, Francisco J.; Torres-Gonzalez, Antonio; Garcia-Cifo, Angel; Jimenez-Ormeno, Ester; de Baranda, Pilar Sainz								Is there a relationship between the overhead press and split jerk maximum performance? Influence of sex								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	1			143	150	17479541211020452	10.1177/17479541211020452			FEB 2022	2022	The aims of this study were to (I) determine the differences and relationship between the overhead press and split jerk performance in athletes involved in weightlifting training, and (II) explore the magnitude of these differences in one-repetition maximum (1RM) performances between sexes. Sixty-one men (age: 30.4 +/- 6.7 years; height: 1.8 +/- 0.5 m; body mass 82.5 +/- 8.5 kg; weightlifting training experience: 3.7 +/- 3.5 yrs) and 21 women (age: 29.5 +/- 5.2 yrs; height: 1.7 +/- 0.5 m; body mass: 62.6 +/- 5.7 kg; weightlifting training experience: 3.0 +/- 1.5 yrs) participated. The 1RM performance of the overhead press and split jerk were assessed for all participants, with the overhead press assessed on two occasions to determine between-session reliability. The intraclass correlation coefficients (ICC) and 95% confidence intervals showed a high reliability for the overhead press ICC = 0.98 (0.97 - 0.99). A very strong correlation and significant differences were found between the overhead press and split jerk 1RM performances for all participants (r = 0.90 [0.93 - 0.85], 60.2 +/- 18.3 kg, 95.7 +/- 29.3 kg, p <= 0.001). Men demonstrated stronger correlations between the overhead press and split jerk 1RM performances (r = 0.83 [0.73-0.90], p <= 0.001) compared with women (r = 0.56 [0.17-0.80], p = 0.008). These results provide evidence that 1RM performance of the overhead press and split jerk performance are highly related, highlighting the importance of upper-limb strength in the split jerk maximum performance.		[Soriano, Marcos A.; Jimenez-Ormeno, Ester] Camilo Jose Cela Univ, Exercise Physiol Lab, Madrid, Spain; [Soriano, Marcos A.; de Baranda, Pilar Sainz] Univ Murcia, Dept Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Murcia, Spain; [Haff, G. Gregory; Comfort, Paul] Edith Cowan Univ, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, Joondalup, Australia; [Haff, G. Gregory; Comfort, Paul] Univ Salford, Sch Hlth & Soc, Manchester, Lancs, England; [Amaro-Gahete, Francisco J.] Univ Granada, Fac Med, Dept Physiol, Granada, Spain; [Amaro-Gahete, Francisco J.] Univ Granada, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, PROFITH PROmoting FITness & Hlth Phys Act Res Grp, Granada, Spain; [Torres-Gonzalez, Antonio] House Lifters Natl Weightlifting Club, Madrid, Spain; [Garcia-Cifo, Angel] QualisTrainingLab Rehabil & Training Ctr, Valencia, Spain; [Soriano, Marcos A.] Camilo Jose Cela Univ, Exercise Physiol Lab, Madrid, Spain								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000663617100001	27	Article; Article		
J	Lopez de Subijana, Cristina; Martin, Luc J.; Ramos, Javier; Cote, Jean								How coach leadership is related to the coach-athlete relationship in elite sport								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	6			1239	1246	17479541211021523	10.1177/17479541211021523			DEC 2021	2021	The purpose of this study was to explore the association between coach leadership and the coach-athlete relationship. Eighty-one elite athletes (M = 20.4 years; SD = 3.8; 58% female and 42% male) responded to questionnaires pertaining to their coaches' leadership behaviours and the quality of their relationship. The overall model for predicting the quality of the coach-athlete relationship according to perceived coach leadership behaviours explained 61% of the variance. Three transformational leadership behaviours were positively associated with the quality of the coach-athlete relationship: individualized consideration, appropriate role-modelling, and fostering acceptance of group goals and teamwork. Based on a gender comparison, men perceived higher levels of leadership pertaining to role-modelling and intellectual stimulation, in addition to higher levels of quality for the coach-athlete relationship. This research emphasizes the importance of engaging in transformational leadership behaviours with regards to associations with perceptions of the coach-athlete relationship in elite sport contexts.		[Lopez de Subijana, Cristina; Ramos, Javier] Univ Politecn Madrid, Social Sci Appl Sport Phys Activ & Leisure Dept, Madrid, Spain; [Martin, Luc J.; Cote, Jean] Queens Univ, Sch Kinesiol & Hlth Studies, Kingston, ON, Canada; [Lopez de Subijana, Cristina] Univ Politecn Madrid, Social Sci Appl Sport Phys Activ & Leisure Dept, Sport Sci Fac INEF, Av Martin Fierro 7, Madrid 28040, Spain								41							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000657292100001	47	Article; Article		
J	Hsu, Yawen; Li, Yinru								"Are you really proud of me?" Influence of stereotype threats on college athletes' career thoughts								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	1			3	10	17479541211012801	10.1177/17479541211012801			FEB 2022	2022	Removing the vulnerability of a stereotype threat can weaken the stereotype's negative influence. However, stereotype threats can be produced simply by reminding individuals of their stigmatized social identity. In this study, a typical explicit stereotype threat was compared with two types of reports on positive role models to determine whether the influence of stereotypes varied according to the type of report. In total, 178 college athletes were recruited and randomly assigned to the explicit threat group (EX group, n = 46), report on a special case group (RS group, n = 42), report on a general topic group (RG group, n = 46), or neutral report group (control, n = 44). The participants first read a short text with manipulated context. They then completed scales assessing career adaptability and optimism and were asked to choose whether to complete a scholastic test with high or low difficulty or not take the test at all. The career adaptability and optimism scores of the control group were higher than those of the RS and EX group. The career optimism scores of the RG group were higher than those of the EX group. Fewer participants opted for the difficult version of the scholastic text in the EX and RS groups; the majority of participants in these groups chose to not take any test. The results indicated the influence of negative stereotype threats and indicated that reading the news report on the special case did not have a positive and encouraging effect on the participants.		[Hsu, Yawen] Natl Chiayi Univ, Dept Phys Educ Hlth & Recreat, 85 Wenlong Village, Minshung Township 621, Chiayi, Taiwan; [Li, Yinru] Natl Chiayi Univ, Grad Inst Educ Adm & Policy Dev, Minshung Township, Chiayi, Taiwan; [Hsu, Yawen] Natl Chiayi Univ, Dept Phys Educ Hlth & Recreat, 85 Wenlong Village, Minshung Township 621, Chiayi, Taiwan								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000657286900001	37	Article; Article		
J	Finlay, Mitchell James; Page, Richard Michael; Greig, Matt; Bridge, Craig Alan								The prevalence of pre-conditioning and recovery strategies in senior elite and non-elite amateur boxing								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				50	4			323	331		10.1080/00913847.2021.1931525			JUL 4 2022	2022	Objectives A variety of acute strategies around competition are used to prepare and promote physical and mental restoration in athletes. However, to date, no research exists on the prevalence of such methods in amateur boxing. Therefore, this study aimed to 1) examine the prevalence of pre-conditioning and recovery strategies in amateur boxing; 2) ascertain whether this was discriminated against at competitor level. Methods This study surveyed 101 senior amateur boxers (Senior Elite SEB n = 59; Senior Development SDB n = 42), on their application and perceptions of pre-conditioning and recovery strategies. Results The reported findings determined a significantly greater number of SEB performed resistance priming activity up to 48 hours prior to competition (11, 19% vs 2, 5%; P = 0.040), and post-activation performance enhancement (PAPE) activity in the pre-competition warm-up (18, 31% vs 1, 2%; P < 0.001), compared to SDB. Likewise, SEB reported they were also significantly more likely to utilize massage (SEB 35, 59%, SDB 11, 29%, P = 0.001) and cold-water immersion (CWI) (SEB 28, 47%, SDB 10, 29%, P = 0.016) as recovery modes, compared to their SDB counterparts. Conclusions This study was the first to provide data on the use of PAPE, priming and recovery methods around amateur boxing bouts. Increased access to multi-disciplinary staff could be expected in SEB, possibly explaining the greater prevalence of evidence-based methods around competition. Once athlete responsiveness to PAPEand longer-term priming methods are initially assessed, these strategies could be implemented to improve punch-specific performance, though more research is needed on their efficacy. Likewise, boxers could utilize evidence-based recovery modes where possible, with increased importance during repeat-bout scenarios, such as domestic tournaments. Coaches and practitioners may use this data to implement pre-conditioning and recovery strategies, to optimize performance and reduce the risk of injury of amateur boxers.		[Finlay, Mitchell James; Page, Richard Michael; Greig, Matt; Bridge, Craig Alan] Edge Hill Univ, Sport & Phys Act Dept, Sports Injury Res Grp, Ormskirk, Lancs, England; [Finlay, Mitchell James] Edge Hill Univ, Finlay Sport & Phys Act Dept, Ormskirk L39 4QP, Lancs, England								10							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000655392400001	48	Article; Article		
J	Weissman, Shannon E.; Perinpanayagam, Ryanne; Wright, F. Virginia; Arbour-Nicitopoulos, Kelly P.								Application of the behaviour change technique taxonomy (BCTTv1) to an inclusive physical literacy-based sport program for children and youth								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	1			18	36	17479541211016580	10.1177/17479541211016580			FEB 2022	2022	Coaches play a critical role in shaping the sporting experiences of children and youth. In introductory-level grassroots sport programs, the coaching strategies used can greatly influence children's and youths' physical literacy development. This study identified behaviour change techniques (BCTs) used by coaches in an inclusive physical literacy-based grassroots sport program for children and youth. Specifically, the study aimed to assess the type and frequency of BCTs reported by coaches in their weekly one-on-one coaching session logs. This study focused on a community-based program (Igniting Fitness Possibilities) that supports children and youth with varied abilities in becoming engaged in local physical activity opportunities. 162 weekly coaching logs from 13 coaches (n = 8 females) were coded using Michie and colleagues' (2013) BCT Taxonomy (BCTTv1) consisting of 93 different BCTs. A codebook was developed in accordance with the BCTTv1 to assist in identifying BCTs used within the Igniting Fitness Possibilities context. Thirty-six BCTs were identified across the coaching logs, with an average of 3.62 (SD = 2.43) different BCTs coded per log. The most commonly coded BCTs were 'demonstration of the behaviour' (146 codings), 'instruction on how to perform the behaviour' (145 codings), and 'behavioural practice/rehearsal' (137 codings). The findings support the applicability of the BCTTv1 to a paediatric inclusive grassroots context and provide insight into BCTs that might be most relevant to target for physical literacy development in this setting. BCT identification can also promote reflective coaching practices, help identify gaps in training, and provide a foundation for evaluating the effectiveness of coaching strategies.		[Weissman, Shannon E.; Perinpanayagam, Ryanne; Arbour-Nicitopoulos, Kelly P.] Univ Toronto, Fac Kinesiol & Phys Educ, Toronto, ON, Canada; [Wright, F. Virginia; Arbour-Nicitopoulos, Kelly P.] Holland Bloorview Kids Rehabil Hosp, Bloorview Res Inst, Toronto, ON, Canada; [Wright, F. Virginia] Univ Toronto, Dept Phys Therapy, Toronto, ON, Canada; [Arbour-Nicitopoulos, Kelly P.] Univ Toronto, Fac Kinesiol & Phys Educ, Toronto, ON, Canada								11							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000656024800001	54	Article; Article		
J	Pedersen, Zack P.; Kim, Kyungyeol (Anthony); Byon, Kevin K.; Williams, Antonio S.								The relative influence of spectator dysfunctional behavior on spectator enjoyment in Major League Baseball								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				23	1			93	109		10.1108/IJSMS-07-2020-0126			JAN 11 2022	2022	Purpose The purpose of this study is to evaluate the perceived enjoyment that is derived from spectators observing other spectators' dysfunctional behavior during a game. Design/methodology/approach Using four forms (i.e. fighting, verbal assault, disrupting play and throwing missiles) of spectators dysfunctional behavior (SDB), two experiments (N = 252 for Study 1 and N = 92 for Study 2) were conducted in which video clips corresponding to the four types of SDB were used as experimental stimuli. Findings The findings indicate that participants enjoyed viewing spectators running onto the field of play significantly more than the other forms of SDB (i.e. fighting, verbal assaults and throwing missiles). The results also show no significant difference between how much spectators enjoyed the actions of fighting, verbal assault and throwing missiles. Originality/value The novelty of this study include the usage of a multidimensional approach to the concept of SDB and testing for a positive outcome pertaining to SDB that has largely, if not fully, been examined using negative inputs and outputs.		[Pedersen, Zack P.; Byon, Kevin K.; Williams, Antonio S.] Indiana Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Bloomington, IN 47405 USA; [Kim, Kyungyeol (Anthony)] Univ Southern Indiana, Kinesiol & Sport Dept, Evansville, IN USA; [Pedersen, Zack P.] Indiana Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Bloomington, IN 47405 USA								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000655161200001	52	Article; Article		
J	Han, Seunguk; Son, Seong Jun; Kim, Hyunsoo; Lee, Hyunwook; Seeley, Matthew; Hopkins, Ty								Prelanding movement strategies among chronic ankle instability, coper, and control subjects								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				21	4			391	407		10.1080/14763141.2021.1927163			APR 21 2022	2022	We describe feedforward neuromuscular control during a maximal jump landing/cutting task among groups of chronic ankle instability (CAI), coper, and uninjured control subjects. Sixty-six volunteers participated (22 CAI, 22 copers, and 22 uninjured controls). The subjects completed five trials of a maximal jump landing/cutting manoeuvre. Three-dimensional ground reaction force, lower-extremity joint angles, and activation of eight muscles were collected from 150 ms prelanding to initial contact. Functional analyses of variance (FANOVA) were used to evaluate between-group differences for these outcome variables. Compared to uninjured controls, both CAI patients and copers demonstrated altered sagittal lower-extremity movements. However, only copers exhibited unique kinematic alterations in frontal lower-extremity kinematics in the ankle and hip joints. While CAI patients demonstrated decreased most of lower-extremity EMG activation, copers displayed increased EMG activation during prelanding. Current data suggest that both CAI patients and copers demonstrated alterations in feedforward neuromuscular control prior to initial contact during a demanding jump landing/cutting task. Altered movement strategies during prelanding were observed in both proximal (e.g., knee and hip) and distal (e.g., ankle) joints in CAI patients and copers, while copers presumably had more protective jump landing/cutting movement strategies than CAI patients.		[Han, Seunguk; Lee, Hyunwook; Seeley, Matthew; Hopkins, Ty] Brigham Young Univ, Dept Exercise Sci, Provo, UT 84602 USA; [Son, Seong Jun] CHA Univ, Grad Sch Sports Med, Seongnam Si, South Korea; [Kim, Hyunsoo] West Chester Univ, Dept Kinesiol, W Chester, PA USA; [Son, Seong Jun] CHA Univ, Grad Sch Sports Med, Seongnam Si, South Korea								33							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000655388100001	50	Article; Article		
J	Raya-Castellano, Pablo E.; Reeves, Matthew J.; Fradua-Uriondo, Luis; McRobert, Allistair P.								Post-match video-based feedback: A longitudinal work-based coach development program stimulating changes in coaches' knowledge and understanding								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	6			1259	1270	17479541211017276	10.1177/17479541211017276			DEC 2021	2021	The literature regarding formal coach education and development highlights issues of transference of usable knowledge to the real-world context. This study sought to engage coaches from a Spanish football academy in a longitudinal work-based coach development program (CDP) focused on the delivery of post-match feedback. The CDP was delivered over a 23-month period through collaboration between a sport pedagogue researcher-practitioner, the Academy Management Team, and an experienced research team. The study adopted a case study design, utilizing a multiple method data collection strategy that occurred in several stages: 1) Systematic observations (Sep-Dec 2018) and 2) debrief (Jan 2019), where baseline coach behaviors and underpinning knowledge were recorded; 3) a workshop and a directed task (Mar 2019), encouraging coaches to apply new knowledge; 4) a directed task 2 and reflective interview (Apr/May 2019), facilitating coaches' reflection on their past deliveries and rationalization and planning of their forthcoming sessions' delivery and 5) a consolidation interview (Apr 2020), capturing knowledge stabilization. Qualitative data suggest that there was an increased understanding in the adoption of behaviors including corrective feedback, silence, questioning, and player participation throughout the CDP. In addition, coaches' self-reflection found acceptance of their coaching delivery or a disconnect between their desired and actual behaviors during the delivery of video-based feedback. This study provides a preliminary framework for further implementation and exploration in developing coaches' knowledge and understanding of delivering post-match video-based feedback.		[Raya-Castellano, Pablo E.; Fradua-Uriondo, Luis] Univ Granada, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Granada, Spain; [Reeves, Matthew J.] Univ Cent Lancashire, Lancashire Res Ctr Sport Phys Act & Performance, Preston, Lancs, England; [McRobert, Allistair P.] Liverpool John Moores Univ, Football Exchange, Liverpool, Merseyside, England; [Raya-Castellano, Pablo E.] Univ Granada, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Carretera Alfacar,21, Granada 18071, Spain								15							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000652882000001	50	Article; Article		
J	Cheng, Li Keng; Huang, Hsien-Long; Lai, Ching-Chi								Continuance intention in running apps: the moderating effect of relationship norms								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				23	1			132	154		10.1108/IJSMS-08-2020-0143			JAN 11 2022	2022	Purpose The number of people using running apps has increased. Accordingly, a growing number of sports brands are launching running apps in hopes of improving their connection with consumers and thereby enhancing consumers' brand preference and purchase intention. This study adopted an integrated perspective to explore the effects of perceived usefulness, perceived ease of use and self-expression on consumers' continued use of running apps. Design/methodology/approach Convenience sampling was conducted among consumers in Taiwan (n = 251). Structural equation modeling using AMOS 21 was performed to analyze the data. Findings The study results revealed that (1) users' perceived usefulness, perceived ease of use and self-expression significantly positively affected continuance intention, and (2) continuance intention was significantly positively correlated with word-of-mouth (WOM) and brand intimacy. Furthermore, the study confirmed the moderating effect of consumers' relationship norms on the correlation between continuance intention and WOM and brand intimacy. Originality/value Amid the increasing emphasis on self-expression, almost all running apps endeavor to enable users to share their achievements, such as accumulated mileage and routes. However, research has rarely focused on whether these features influence consumers' continued use of running apps and whether these influences in turn affect consumers' attitudes toward a brand. Therefore, this study explored the effect of self-expression on the continued use of running apps.		[Cheng, Li Keng; Huang, Hsien-Long; Lai, Ching-Chi] Tatung Univ, Dept Business Management, Taipei, Taiwan; [Huang, Hsien-Long] Tatung Univ, Dept Business Management, Taipei, Taiwan								23							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000654282200001	115	Article; Article		
J	Ohshima, Yuji; Bezodis, Neil E.; Nagahara, Ryu								Calculation of the centre of pressure on the athletic starting block								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				20	4			481	494		10.1080/14763141.2018.1561933			MAY 19 2021	2021	We aimed to evaluate the accuracy of a new method to calculate the centre of pressure (COP) on a starting block above a force platform, and to examine how this method affected lower extremity joint torques during the block clearance phase compared against a previously used method which projects the COP from the metatarsophalangeal (MP) joint. To evaluate the accuracy of the new method, one experimenter applied force at 18 known locations on a starting block (under six block position and orientation conditions), during which ground reaction force was recorded underneath using a force platform. Two sprinters then performed three block starts each, and lower extremity joint torques were calculated during block clearance using the COP obtained from the new method and from the projection of the MP joint location. The calculated COP using the new method had a mean bias of <= 0.002 m. There were some large differences (effect sizes = 0.11-4.01) in the lower extremity joint torques between the two methods which could have important implications for understanding block clearance phase kinetics. The new method for obtaining the COP on a starting block is highly accurate and affects the calculation of joint torques during the block clearance phase.		[Ohshima, Yuji] Ritsumeikan Univ, Inst Gen Educ, Kusatsu, Japan; [Bezodis, Neil E.] Swansea Univ, Appl Sports Technol Exercise & Med Res Ctr, Swansea, W Glam, Wales; [Nagahara, Ryu] Natl Inst Fitness & Sports Kanoya, Sports Performance Res Ctr, Kanoya, Japan; [Nagahara, Ryu] Natl Inst Fitness & Sports Kanoya, Sports Performance Res Ctr, Kanoya, Japan								4							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000647292800009	22	Article; Article		
J	Tubez, Francois; Schwartz, Cedric; Croisier, Jean-Louis; Bruls, Olivier; Denoel, Vincent; Paulus, Julien; Forthomme, Benedicte								Evolution of the trophy position along the tennis serve player's development								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				20	4			431	443		10.1080/14763141.2018.1560493			MAY 19 2021	2021	The trophy position is a coaching cue for the tennis serve that usually corresponds to the racquet high point (RHP) during the preparatory action for the stroke. Mastering this position and its time of occurrence seems essential in overarm movements like in the tennis serve. Clinicians and coaches have a real interest in understanding the trophy position and its evolution during the development of the elite players at different ages. A 3D motion system was used to measure the kinematics of the serve. A group of high-level tennis players were selected for three different age groups: 8 adults (ITN 1), 8 teenagers (ITN 3) and 8 children (ITN 5-6). Results show a modified pattern sequence of the tennis serve between children and adult players. RHP appears earlier relative to impact for children (-0.54 +/- 0.10 s) than for adults (-0.36 +/- 0.11 s) and teenagers (-0.33 +/- 0.05 s) (p = 0.007). At RHP, children present lower trunk transverse plane rotation (p < 0.003) and higher shoulder external rotation (p < 0.003). These positions for the child players may represent an increased risk of shoulder and trunk injury than for older players and contribute to a lower racquet resultant velocity at impact.		[Tubez, Francois; Schwartz, Cedric; Croisier, Jean-Louis; Paulus, Julien; Forthomme, Benedicte] Univ Liege, Lab Human Mot Anal, Liege, Belgium; [Tubez, Francois; Croisier, Jean-Louis; Forthomme, Benedicte] Univ Liege, Dept Sci & Motor Skills, Liege, Belgium; [Tubez, Francois] Robert Schuman Univ Coll, Physiotherapy Dept, Libramont, Belgium; [Bruls, Olivier] Univ Liege, Dept Aerosp & Mech Engn, Liege, Belgium; [Denoel, Vincent] Univ Liege, Dept Appl Sci, Liege, Belgium; [Tubez, Francois] Univ Liege, Lab Human Mot Anal, Liege, Belgium; [Tubez, Francois] Univ Liege, Dept Sci & Motor Skills, Liege, Belgium; [Tubez, Francois] Robert Schuman Univ Coll, Physiotherapy Dept, Libramont, Belgium								13							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000647292800005	50	Article; Article		
J	Kim, Han Soo; Kang, Minsoo; Kim, Minjung								Rasch calibration and optimal categorization of the sport fandom questionnaire								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				23	1			75	92		10.1108/IJSMS-11-2020-0208			JAN 11 2022	2022	Purpose The purpose of this study is to evaluate the category function of the sport fandom questionnaire (SFQ), determine the optimal categorization of the SFQ and calibrate the measurement qualities of the newly modified rating scale option using Rasch analysis. Design/methodology/approach This paper relies on the Rasch analysis to validate the SFQ. A series of studies are performed based on analysis procedures for the responses from 244 (study 1) and 477 (study 2) participants. Findings The results revealed that the original SFQ consisting of the eight-category rating scale is flagged due to irregular observation distribution and disordering of thresholds, whereas both six-category and seven-category rating scales meet the guidelines for the optimal categorization. However, only the seven-category rating scale showed desirable model-data fit indices. Furthermore, the results of the Rasch calibration model showed that all items of the SFQ have large variability, and a person's ability level varied moderately along the continuum. Originality/value Unlike previous studies, examining the psychometric properties of the SFQ, the current study provides information about the optimal categorization and presents a novel reconstruction category in measuring individuals' sport fandom level. In measuring the level of sport fandom, the authors suggest the use of a seven-category rating scale that the current study found to exhibit reliability and construct validity.		[Kim, Han Soo; Kang, Minsoo; Kim, Minjung] Univ Mississippi, Dept Hlth Exercise Sci & Recreat Management, Oxford, MS 38677 USA; [Kim, Minjung] Univ Mississippi, Dept Hlth Exercise Sci & Recreat Management, Oxford, MS 38677 USA								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000652576500001	65	Article; Article		
J	Mangan, Shane; Collins, Kieran; Burns, Con; O'Neill, Cian								A tactical periodisation model for Gaelic football								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	1			208	219		10.1177/17479541211016269			FEB 2022	2022	Tactical Periodisation is a training methodology, originally developed for soccer, that focuses primarily on the systems of play that a team intends to use in competition. It has been popularised by successful European coaches and subsequently has been proposed as a model to follow for other sports such as rugby union and tennis in more recent times. Gaelic football is an amateur sport that has similarities to soccer and rugby union. To date no training periodisation model has been proposed for Gaelic football. The aim of this article was to present a Tactical Periodisation model for Gaelic football, taking the sport's game structure, physical and technical demands and amateur status into account.		[Mangan, Shane; Burns, Con; O'Neill, Cian] Munster Technol Univ, Dept Sport Leisure & Childhood Studies, Cork, Ireland; [Mangan, Shane; Collins, Kieran] Technol Univ Dublin, Gael Sports Res Ctr, Dublin, Ireland; [Mangan, Shane] Technol Univ Dublin, Gael Sports Res Ctr, Dublin, Ireland								10							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000652216100001	47	Article; Article		
J	Gupta, Ravi; Kapoor, Anil; Singhal, Akash; Patil, Bharath Mali; Bansal, Parth								The presence of high-grade pivot shift test preoperatively is associated with inferior functional outcomes								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				50	4			306	310		10.1080/00913847.2021.1924047			JUL 4 2022	2022	Background: The effect of high-grade preoperative pivot shift test on outcomes of anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) reconstruction surgery is not very well established. The present study was conducted to study the factors associated with high-grade pivot shift test and effect of high-grade preoperative pivot shift test on functional outcomes after ACL reconstruction surgery. Methods: Three hundred and sixty-two patients who underwent primary ACL reconstruction surgery were enrolled in the study. The pivot shift test was performed preoperatively under anesthesia in all patients. Side of the meniscal tear, if present at the time of ACL reconstruction, was documented. Patients were divided into two groups depending upon the grade of pivot shift test: group H, high-grade pivot shift (n = 84/362; 23%); and group L, low-grade pivot shift (n = 278/362; 77%). Patients were further divided into two groups depending upon the duration of injury: acute (<6 months) and chronic (>6 months). The functional assessment was done using Lysholm score and Tegner activity scale. Results: The presence of lateral meniscus tear (27/84 vs. 53/278) or both menisci tear (29/84 vs. 60/278) was associated with high-grade pivot shift (p < 0.05). Chronic ACL tears were also observed to be associated with high-grade pivot shift (p = 0.03). The mean Lysholm score in group H and group L patients was 93.8 +/- 5.1 and 95.2 +/- 5.3, respectively (p = 0.04). The mean post-op Tegner activity scale in group H was 6.8 and in group L was 7.3 (p = 0.0001). Also, 181/253 (71.5%) patients returned to same or higher level of sports activity in group L as compared to 33/72 (46%) patients in group H. The incidence of graft failure in groups H and L was 6.5% (5/77) and 1.6% (4/257; p = 0.03), respectively. Conclusions: The high-grade pivot shift is associated with chronic ACL tear (>6 months) and concomitant lateral meniscus tear. The presence of high-grade pivot shift preoperatively is associated with inferior clinical outcomes and lower rate of return to sports.		[Gupta, Ravi] Govt Med Coll Hosp, Sports Injury Ctr, Chandigarh, India; [Gupta, Ravi] Govt Med Coll Hosp, Chandigarh, India; [Kapoor, Anil; Singhal, Akash; Patil, Bharath Mali; Bansal, Parth] Govt Med Coll Hosp, Dept Orthopaed, Chandigarh, India; [Kapoor, Anil] Govt Med Coll Hosp, Dept Orthopaed, Chandigarh, India								18							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000649121500001	47	Article; Article		
J	Ahmadian, Mehdi; Ghasemi, Mohammad; Nasrollahi Borujeni, Nafiseh; Afshan, Samaneh; Fallah, Masoumeh; Ayaseh, Hamed; Pahlavan, Mohammad; Nabavi Chashmi, Seyedeh Maedeh; Haeri, Tahereh; Imani, Fattaneh; Zahedmanesh, Foruzan; Akbari, Abolfazl; Nasiri, Khadijeh; Dabidi Roshan, Valiollah								Does wearing a mask while exercising amid COVID-19 pandemic affect hemodynamic and hematologic function among healthy individuals? Implications of mask modality, sex, and exercise intensity								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				50	3			257	268		10.1080/00913847.2021.1922947			MAY 4 2022	2022	Objectives: We investigated how wearing a mask - and its modality (surgical vs. N95) - affect hemodynamic and hematologic function in males and females across two exercise intensities (submaximal (SUB) and maximal (MAX)). Methods: 144 individuals participated in the present study and were randomly allocated to three mask groups of 48 (N95, SURGICAL, and NO MASK) with two exercise subgroups for each mask group (MAX, n = 24; SUB, n = 24) for both sexes. Participants in each experimental group (N95SUB, N95MAX; SURSUB, SURMAX; SUB, MAX) were assessed for their hemodynamic and hematologic function at baseline and during recovery after exercise. Results: No significant differences were noted for either hemodynamic or hematologic function at post-exercise as compared to baseline with regard to mask modality (P > 0.05). Heart rate (HR) for maximal intensity were significantly greater at 1 min post-exercise in N95 as compared to SURGICAL (P < 0.05). No differences were noted for hemodynamic and hematologic function with N95 and SURGICAL compared to NOMASK for either intensity (P > 0.05). Females showed significantly greater HR values at 1 min post-exercise in N95 as compared to NO MASK, but no significant differences were noted for hematological function between sexes (P > 0.05). Conclusion: Our findings show that wearing a face mask (N95/surgical) while exercising has no detrimental effects on hemodynamic/hematologic function in both males and females, and suggest that wearing a mask, particularly a surgical mask, while exercising during the ongoing pandemic is safe and poses no risk to individual's health. Future studies examining physiological responses to chronic exercise with masks are warranted.		[Ahmadian, Mehdi; Nasiri, Khadijeh] Univ British Columbia, Sch Kinesiol, Vancouver, BC, Canada; [Ghasemi, Mohammad; Nasrollahi Borujeni, Nafiseh; Afshan, Samaneh; Fallah, Masoumeh; Ayaseh, Hamed; Pahlavan, Mohammad; Nabavi Chashmi, Seyedeh Maedeh; Haeri, Tahereh; Imani, Fattaneh; Zahedmanesh, Foruzan; Dabidi Roshan, Valiollah] Univ Mazandaran, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Exercise Physiol, Babolsar, Iran; [Akbari, Abolfazl] Shiraz Univ, Sch Vet Med, Dept Physiol, Shiraz, Iran; [Dabidi Roshan, Valiollah] Univ Mazandaran, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Exercise Physiol, Athlet Performance & Hlth Res Ctr, Babolsar, Iran; [Dabidi Roshan, Valiollah] Univ Mazandaran UMZ, Pasdaran St,POB 416, Babolsar 47415, Mazandaran, Iran								28							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000648760600001	62	Article; Article		
J	Beaulieu, Melanie L.; Ashton-Miller, James A.; Wojtys, Edward M.								Loading mechanisms of the anterior cruciate ligament								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				22	1			1	29		10.1080/14763141.2021.1916578			JAN 2 2023	2023	This review identifies the three-dimensional knee loads that have the highest risk of injuring the anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) in the athlete. It is the combination of the muscular resistance to a large knee flexion moment, an external reaction force generating knee compression, an internal tibial torque, and a knee abduction moment during a single-leg athletic manoeuvre such as landing from a jump, abruptly changing direction, or rapidly decelerating that results in the greatest ACL loads. While there is consensus that an anterior tibial shear force is the primary ACL loading mechanism, controversy exists regarding the secondary order of importance of transverse-plane and frontal-plane loading in ACL injury scenarios. Large knee compression forces combined with a posteriorly and inferiorly sloped tibial plateau, especially the lateral plateau-an important ACL injury risk factor-causes anterior tibial translation and internal tibial rotation, which increases ACL loading. Furthermore, while the ACL can fail under a single supramaximal loading cycle, recent evidence shows that it can also fail following repeated submaximal loading cycles due to microdamage accumulating in the ligament with each cycle. This challenges the existing dogma that non-contact ACL injuries are predominantly due to a single manoeuvre that catastrophically overloads the ACL.		[Beaulieu, Melanie L.; Wojtys, Edward M.] Univ Michigan, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Ann Arbor, MI 48109 USA; [Ashton-Miller, James A.] Univ Michigan, Dept Mech Engn, Ann Arbor, MI 48109 USA; [Ashton-Miller, James A.] Univ Michigan, Dept Biomed Engn, Ann Arbor, MI 48109 USA; [Beaulieu, Melanie L.] Univ Michigan, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Ann Arbor, MI 48109 USA								76							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000648165600001	162	Article; Article		
J	Harry, John R.; Barker, Leland A.; Tinsley, Grant M.; Krzyszkowski, John; Chowning, Luke D.; McMahon, John J.; Lake, Jason								Relationships among countermovement vertical jump performance metrics, strategy variables, and inter-limb asymmetry in females								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	8			1009	1027		10.1080/14763141.2021.1908412			AUG 2 2024	2024	Dependent variables commonly studied during countermovement vertical jump (CMVJ) tests largely stem from male-only studies despite females'distinct energy storage and reutilisation strategies. This could limit progress among females seeking increased CMVJ performance through targeted changes in certain variables. We explored relationships between CMVJ performance metrics (jump height, modified reactive strength index, jump power, and takeoff momentum) and (a) temporal and force application variables and (b) inter-limb force and yank (i.e., rate of force development) asymmetry in 31 recreationally active females. Participants performed eight CMVJs while ground reaction force (GRF) data were obtained. Pearson product-moment correlation coefficients assessed the strength and direction of the associations. Twenty-six significant relationships (r >= +/- 0.357; p < 0.05) were detected across the CMVJ performance variables. The significantly correlated variables were generally isolated to only one of the four performance metrics. Only the percentage of concentric phase inter-limb force asymmetry was significantly associated with CMVJ performance, specifically jump power and takeoff momentum. Coaches and physical performance professionals should be aware of popular strategy variables' association or lack of association with commonly studied performance metrics when seeking to understand or improve specific CMVJ jumping abilities in females.		[Harry, John R.; Krzyszkowski, John; Chowning, Luke D.] Texas Tech Univ, Human Performance & Biomech Lab, Lubbock, TX 79409 USA; [Barker, Leland A.] Creighton Univ, Dept Exercise Sci & Pre Hlth Profess, Omaha, NE 68178 USA; [Tinsley, Grant M.] Texas Tech Univ, Energy Balance & Body Composit Lab, Lubbock, TX 79409 USA; [McMahon, John J.] Univ Salford, Directorate Psychol & Sport, Salford, Lancs, England; [Lake, Jason] Univ Chichester, Chichester Inst Sport, Chichester, W Sussex, England; [Lake, Jason] Edith Cowan Univ, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, Joondalup, WA, Australia; [Harry, John R.] Texas Tech Univ, Human Performance & Biomech Lab, Lubbock, TX 79409 USA								25							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000647327700001	48	Article; Article		
J	Pastoriza, David; Plante, Jean-Francois; Lakhlef, Nadjib								Are Foreigners at Disadvantage in a Global Labor Market?								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				22	6			615	638	1527002521995870	10.1177/1527002521995870			AUG 2021	2021	We find evidence that being a foreigner decreases the chances of surviving (i.e., keeping the license) on the first season on the PGA TOUR. This phenomenon does not affect all foreigners equally-it is present amongst the non-elite group (those playing the second-tier tour), but we found no evidence amongst the elite group (those playing the first-tier tour). We discover that the international experience acquired by foreigners in other circuits prior to their arrival on the PGA TOUR mitigates this disadvantage. Not keeping the card has hazardous financial consequences for both the golfer and the corporations whose products he endorses.		[Pastoriza, David] HEC Montreal, Int Business, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Plante, Jean-Francois] HEC Montreal, Dept Decis Sci, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Lakhlef, Nadjib] HEC Montreal, 3000 Cote St Catherine Rd, Montreal, PQ H3T 2A7, Canada; [Pastoriza, David] HEC Montreal, 3000 Cote St Catherine Rd, Montreal, PQ H3T 2A7, Canada								2							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000649499800001	64	Article; Article		
J	Drikos, Sotirios; Barzouka, Karolina; Balasas, Dimitrios G.; Sotiropoulos, Konstantinos								Effect of quality of opposition on game performance indicators in elite male volleyball								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	1			169	177	17479541211013701	10.1177/17479541211013701			FEB 2022	2022	Performance in a volleyball match is the result of a dynamic and interactive process between two teams. The current study aimed to investigate the influence of the quality of opposition on skill performance indicators. A total of 550 teams' performances (N = 550) from 275 sets of men's European Championship 2019 was recorded and the effectiveness of 12 parameters from 5 basic volleyball skills was analyzed. A two-step cluster analysis was performed to divide 24 teams into three quality groups (upper, middle, lower) and 6 types of match status were created according to the quality of the opponents. Binomial logistic regression showed that for each type of match, the key performance factors that discriminate win and loss are differentiated, while the efficacy of attack win is associated with the success almost with all contexts studied. Other significant parameters were serve aces for matches between upper-quality teams, opponent's errors for matches between teams of different quality and avoidance of blocked attacks for balanced matches. The findings emphasize the need for coaches to plan strategies that allow players with special serving abilities to risk for an ace, to enhance the side-out skills of their team and to work detailed on attack coverage systems.		[Drikos, Sotirios; Barzouka, Karolina; Sotiropoulos, Konstantinos] Natl Kapodistrian Univ Athens, Sch Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Athens, Greece; [Balasas, Dimitrios G.] Aristotle Univ Thessaloniki, Sch Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Thessaloniki, Greece; [Drikos, Sotirios] Ethnikis Antistasis 41, Athens, Greece								22							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000649484100001	48	Article; Article		
J	Rokowski, Robert; Michailov, Michail; Maciejczyk, Marcin; Wiecek, Magdalena; Szymura, Jadwiga; Draga, Pawel; Trendafilov, Plamen; Szygula, Zbigniew								Muscle strength and endurance in high-level rock climbers								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	8			1057	1072		10.1080/14763141.2021.1916577			AUG 2 2024	2024	The relative importance of key performance factors is poorly studied in high-level climbers. This study aimed to (1) determine the role of forearm muscle strength and endurance in high-level rock climbing, (2) and provide suitable dynamometric test parameters for muscle endurance assessment in high-level climbers. Six higher elite (redpoint Fr.9a) and eight elite/advanced (redpoint Fr.8a+) climbers performed one finger flexor maximal strength test and three finger endurance tests: a 30 s all-out test and a continuous and intermittent test at 60% of maximal voluntary contraction. Higher elite climbers had higher (p < 0.05) maximal strength, all-out test average force and continuous test force-time integral (all relative to body mass) than the elite/advanced climbers. These parameters correlated significantly (p < 0.05) with climbing performance, which has not been observed so far for continuous test scores. Unlike in previous research, intermittent test force-time integral neither distinguished climbing ability groups nor correlated significantly with climbing performance. Nevertheless, regression models comprising of intermittent and maximal strength test scores more strongly determined climbing performance than models including continuous or all-out test scores. Intermittent muscle endurance is among the performance factors in difficult rock climbing but appears to be less important than maintaining high forces during sustained muscle contractions.		[Rokowski, Robert] Univ Phys Educ, Fac Tourism & Recreat, Dept Alpinism & Tourism, Krakow, Poland; [Michailov, Michail] Natl Sports Acad, Dept Theory & Methodol Sports Training, Sofia, Bulgaria; [Maciejczyk, Marcin; Wiecek, Magdalena] Univ Phys Educ, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Dept Physiol & Biochem, Krakow, Poland; [Szymura, Jadwiga] Univ Phys Educ, Fac Motor Rehabil, Dept Clin Rehabil, Krakow, Poland; [Draga, Pawel] Osterreich Kletterverband, Austrian Natl Climbing Team Coach, Innsbruck, Austria; [Trendafilov, Plamen] Bulgarian Acad Sci, Space Res & Technol Inst, Sofia, Bulgaria; [Szygula, Zbigniew] Univ Phys Educ, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Dept Sports Med & Human Nutr, Krakow, Poland; [Michailov, Michail] Natl Sports Acad, Dept Theory & Methodol Sports Training, Sofia, Bulgaria								18							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000646441800001	26	Article; Article		
J	Ashall, Adam; Dobbin, Nick; Thorpe, Cari								The concurrent validity and intrarater reliability of a hand-held dynamometer for the assessment of neck strength in semi-professional rugby union players								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				49				229	235		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.03.007			MAY 2021	2021	Objectives: The main objective of this study was to determine the concurrent validity between a handheld (HHD) and mounted hand-held dynamometer (MHHD) for assessing isometric neck strength. Design: Observational design. Setting: Semiprofessional rugby club. Participants: Nineteen semi-professional rugby players (age = 26 +/- 5 years, stature = 186.5 +/- 6.5 cm, body mass = 98.7 +/- 12.8 kg). Main outcome measures: Concurrent validity (limits of agreement, correlation) between HHD and MHHD, the intrarater reliability (intra-class correlation, ICC) and comparison between playing positions. Results: Absolute peak and mean peak force were systematically lower when using the HHD compared to MHHD, with the mean bias ranging from-1.8 to-3.8 kgf (P < 0.05). Differences were not evident for flexion when applying the correction equations (-0.5 to 2.1 kgf, P > 0.05) but remained for extension. Correlations between methods were large-to-very large; the ICCs for both methods were good (ICC = 0.72-0.89), with no difference between positions (P < 0.05). Conclusion: The concurrent validity of HHD was considered acceptable when compared to the MHHD and the correction equation applied. Both methods are reliable and useful for assessing neck strength in rugby players, though, caution is needed when determining strength during neck extension. (c) 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Ashall, Adam; Dobbin, Nick; Thorpe, Cari] Ealing Trailfinders Rugby Club, London, England; [Ashall, Adam] Manchester Metropolitan Univ, Dept Hlth Profess, Manchester, Lancs, England; [Thorpe, Cari] Manchester Metropolitan Univ, Dept Hlth Profess, Manchester, Lancs, England								14							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000640795700033	36	Article; Article		
J	Law, Mallory A.; Ko, Yi-An; Miller, Ashley L.; Lauterbach, Kristin N.; Hendley, Christopher L.; Johnson, Julie E.; Tsai, Liang-Ching								Age, rehabilitation and surgery characteristics are re-injury risk factors for adolescents following anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				49				196	203		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.03.003			MAY 2021	2021	Objectives: To examine the effect of age on post-ACLR rehabilitative outcomes and identify surgical/ rehabilitative characteristics as ACL re-injury risk factors in adolescents. Design: Cohort study. Setting: Children's hospital. Participants: 273 adolescents with first-time ACLR. Main outcome measures: Demographics, injury history, surgery, and outcomes documented during post-ACLR physical therapy (PT) sessions were extracted from medical records. Effects of age on outcomes were examined using multivariate regression. ACL re-injury risk factors were identified using survival analysis with Cox regression. Results: Re-injury was recorded in 47 patients (17.2%) with a median follow-up time of 3.1 years and median re-injury time of 13.4 months post-surgery. Younger age (Hazard-Ratio, HR = 1.264 per year decrease; P = 0.005), receiving surgery within 1 month post-injury (HR = 3.378 vs. > 3 months; P = 0.012), starting PT within 3 days post-surgery (HR = 3.068; P = 0.022), and decreased number of PT sessions (HR = 1.118 per 3-session decrease; P = 0.010) increased re-injury risk. Although age was associated with re-injury risk, age was not associated with any outcome (P > 0.059). Conclusion: Adolescents who are younger, receive surgery and post-surgery PT sooner, or attend fewer PT sessions may be at an increased re-injury risk. Younger patients achieved similar outcomes despite elevated re-injury risk. Current discharge criteria are inadequate in identifying high re-injury risk patients. (c) 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Law, Mallory A.; Miller, Ashley L.; Lauterbach, Kristin N.; Tsai, Liang-Ching] Georgia State Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Atlanta, GA 30303 USA; [Ko, Yi-An] Emory Univ, Dept Biostat & Bioinfonnat, Atlanta, GA 30322 USA; [Hendley, Christopher L.] Sovereign Rehabil, Atlanta, GA USA; [Johnson, Julie E.] Childrens Healthcare Atlanta, Atlanta, GA USA; [Tsai, Liang-Ching] 140 Decatur St,Suite 1271, Atlanta, GA 30303 USA								27							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000640795700029	45	Article; Article		
J	Verschueren, Jo; Tassignon, Bruno; Verhagen, Evert; Meeusen, Romain								The interaction of acute physical fatigue with three traditional functional performance tests and the reactive balance test								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				49				188	195		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.03.004			MAY 2021	2021	Objectives: To assess the impact of acute physical fatigue on traditional and neurocognitive functional performance tests in recreational athletes. Design: randomized counterbalanced cross-over study, pre-post design Setting: laboratory Participants: Twenty recreational athletes (age = 24 +/- 3 years) Main outcome measures: We evaluated fatigue impairments following a 30 s all-out effort in three traditional and one neurocognitive functional performance test. The traditional functional performance tests encompassed the single leg hop for distance (SLH), countermovement jump (CMJ) and Y-balance test (YBT). The neurocognitive functional performance test encompassed the reactive balance test (RBT). A 30 s modified Wingate was used to induce acute physical fatigue. Results: Acute physical fatigue was successfully induced as indicated by a significant increase in heart rate, systolic blood pressure, blood lactate levels and rating of perceived exertion (p < 0.001). Acute physical fatigue induced significant decreases in RBT accuracy (p = 0.004) and SLH performance (p < 0.001). YBT, CMJ and RBT visuomotor reaction time remained unaffected by acute physical fatigue. Conclusions: Acute physical fatigue impairs SLH performance and decreases accuracy in the RBT. YBT and CMJ performance remained unaffected by acute physical fatigue. Clinicians should be aware of this divergent neurocognitive functional impairments caused by one all-out effort to allow well-informed selection of functional performance tests. (c) 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Verschueren, Jo; Tassignon, Bruno; Meeusen, Romain] Vrije Univ Brussel, Human Physiol & Sports Physiotherapy Res Grp, Fac Phys Educ & Physiotherapy, Brussels, Belgium; [Verhagen, Evert] Vrije Univ Amsterdam, Amsterdam Collaborat Hlth & Safety Sports, Dept Publ & Occupat Hlth, Amsterdam UMC,Amsterdam Movement Sci, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Meeusen, Romain] Vrije Univ Brussel, Strateg Res Program, Exercise & Brain Hlth & Dis Added Value Human Ctr, Brussels, Belgium; [Verschueren, Jo] Vrije Univ Brussel, Human Physiol & Sports Physiotherapy Res Grp, Fac Phys Educ & Physiotherapy, Brussels, Belgium								7							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000640795700028	43	Article; Article		
J	Canfer, R. J.; Chaudry, S.; Miller, S. C.								Thermographic assessment of the immediate and short term-effects of blood flow restriction exercise on Achilles tendon skin temperature								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				49				171	177		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.01.009			MAY 2021	2021	Objectives: To determine the thermal patterning of the Achilles tendon following bodyweight resistance exercise with and without blood-flow restriction (BFR). Design: Cross-sectional. Setting: Research laboratory. Participants: Twelve asymptomatic recreational runners (Age: 37 +/- 10, Height: 169 +/- 20, Mass: 73.8 +/- 13.4). Main outcome measures: Thermograms were taken pre and post exercise with and without a BFR cuff on separate legs. BFR cuff pressure was set at 80% maximal arterial occlusion pressure determined using doppler via the tibial artery. Linear mixed-effects models were used to assess the effect of BFR and time post-exercise on skin-temperature (Tskin). Results: A lower Tskin was seen following BFR exercise at the tendon insertion (P = 0.002), but not at the free tendon (P = 0.234), or the musculotendinous junction (P = 0.933). A significant effect of time upon changes in Tskin was observed in both BFR and non-BFR groups (P = 0.002). No interaction of time and BFR were observed on changes in Tskin (P = 0.726). Conclusion: Region specific changes in Tskin were found, with greater and longer reductions observed at the insertion of the Achilles following BFR exercise before returning to baseline. These findings could have implications for the programming of BFR exercise on tendon health. Future research should observe for differences between symptomatic and healthy tendons. (c) 2021 Published by Elsevier Ltd.		[Canfer, R. J.] RAF Honington, Reg Rehabil Unit, UK MOD, Bury St Edmunds, Suffolk, England; [Chaudry, S.; Miller, S. C.] Queen Mary Univ London, Mile End Hosp, Sports & Exercise Med, London, England; [Miller, S. C.] Queen Mary Univ London, Mile End Hosp, Sports & Exercise Med, London, England								3							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000640795700026	66	Article; Article		
J	Pua, Yong-Hao; Low, Juanita; Woon, Ee-Lin; Tay, Olivia Shi-Min; Cheong, Philip; Thumboo, Julian; Clark, Ross Allan; Chang, Paul; Tan, Andrew; Ho, Jia-Ying								Knee performance and self-efficacy trajectory curves after ACL reconstruction: A longitudinal study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				49				157	163		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.02.008			MAY 2021	2021	Objectives: To examine knee flexion range-of-motion, quadriceps strength, and knee self-efficacy trajectory curves over 6 months after anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction (ACLR), stratified by patients' Month-6 sports activity level. Design: Prospective longitudinal study. Setting: Hospital outpatient physiotherapy department. Participants: 595 individuals after unilateral ACLR (mean age, 27 years). Main outcome measures: At 2-, 3-, and 6-months post-surgery, knee flexion range-of-motion, quadriceps strength, and self-efficacy were quantified. Flexion range-of-motion was additionally measured at 2- and 4-weeks post-surgery. Sports activity levels were assessed using the Tegner Activity Score at 6-months post ACLR. Results: The various measures improved nonlinearly over time, with substantial improvements observed in the first 2-4 months post-surgery. In multivariable generalized least squares models, greater knee flexion range-of-motion, quadriceps strength, and self-efficacy over time were significantly associated with higher Month-6 Tegner levels (all P values < 0.01). Additionally, receiving a bone-patellar-tendon-bone graft or meniscal repair was associated with lower quadriceps strength trajectories (P-values<0.001) while female sex was associated with lower knee self-efficacy trajectories (P = 0.02). Conclusions: Greater knee flexion range-of-motion, quadriceps strength, and self-efficacy were associated with higher Month-6 Tegner levels. The derived trajectory curves may be useful for effective management decision making and adequate results interpretation during the rehabilitation process. (C) 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Pua, Yong-Hao; Low, Juanita; Woon, Ee-Lin; Tay, Olivia Shi-Min; Cheong, Philip] Singapore Gen Hosp, Dept Physiotherapy, Singapore, Singapore; [Pua, Yong-Hao; Thumboo, Julian] Duke NUS Grad Med Sch, Med Acad Programme, Singapore, Singapore; [Chang, Paul; Tan, Andrew] Singapore Gen Hosp, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Singapore, Singapore; [Ho, Jia-Ying] Changi Gen Hosp, Dept Physiotherapy, Singapore, Singapore; [Thumboo, Julian] Singapore Gen Hosp, Dept Rheumatol & Immunol, Singapore, Singapore; [Thumboo, Julian] Singhlth Off Reg Hlth, Hlth Serv Res & Evaluat, Singapore, Singapore; [Clark, Ross Allan] Univ Sunshine Coast, Res Hlth Inst, Sunshine Coast, Australia; [Pua, Yong-Hao] Singapore Gen Hosp, Rehabil Ctr, Natl Heart Ctr, Bldg Level 7 5 Hosp Dr, Singapore 169609, Singapore								9							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000640795700024	40	Article; Article		
J	Rossi, Marleena Katariina; Pasanen, Kati; Heinonen, Ari; Ayramo, Sami; Leppanen, Mari; Myklebust, Grethe; Vasankari, Tommi; Kannus, Pekka; Parkkari, Jari								The standing knee lift test is not a useful screening tool for time loss from low back pain in youth basketball and floorball players								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				49				141	148		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.01.017			MAY 2021	2021	Objectives: The aim of this study was to investigate the association between pelvic kinematics during the standing knee lift (SKL) test and low back pain (LBP) in youth floorball and basketball players. Design: A prospective cohort study. Setting: Finnish elite youth floorball and basketball players. Participants: Finnish elite youth female and male floorball and basketball players (n = 258, mean age 15.7 +/- 1.8). Main outcome measures: LBP resulting in time loss from practice and games was recorded over a 12 month period and verified by a study physician. Associations between LBP and sagittal plane pelvic tilt and frontal plane pelvic obliquity during the SKL test as measured at baseline were investigated. Individual training and game hours were recorded, and Cox's proportional hazard models with mixed effects were used for the analysis. Results: Cox analyses revealed that sagittal plane pelvic tilt and frontal plane pelvic obliquity were not associated with LBP in floorball and basketball players during the follow-up. The hazard ratios for pelvic tilt and pelvic obliquity ranged between 0.93 and 1.08 (95% CIs between 0.91 and 1.07 and 0.83 and 1.29), respectively. Conclusions: Pelvic movement during the SKL test is not associated with future LBP in youth floorball and basketball players. (c) 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Rossi, Marleena Katariina; Pasanen, Kati; Leppanen, Mari; Vasankari, Tommi; Kannus, Pekka; Parkkari, Jari] UKK Inst Hlth Promot Res, Tampere Res Ctr Sports Med, Kaupinpuistonkatu 1, Tampere 33500, Finland; [Rossi, Marleena Katariina; Heinonen, Ari] Univ Jyvaskyla, Fac Sport & Hlth Sci, POB 35, Jyvaskyla 40014, Finland; [Pasanen, Kati] Univ Calgary, Sport Injury Prevent Res Ctr, Fac Kinesiol, 2500 Univ Dr NW, Calgary, AB T2N 1N4, Canada; [Pasanen, Kati] Univ Calgary, Alberta Childrens Hosp Res Inst, 3330 Hosp Dr NW, Calgary, AB T2N 4N1, Canada; [Pasanen, Kati] McCaig Inst Bone & Joint Hlth, 3280 Hosp Drvie NW, Calgary, AB T2N 4Z6, Canada; [Ayramo, Sami] Univ Jyvaskyla, Fac Informat Technol, POB 35, Jyvaskyla 40014, Finland; [Myklebust, Grethe] Norwegian Sch Sport Sci, Oslo Sports Trauma Res Ctr, Dept Sports Sci, Sognsveien 220, N-0806 Oslo, Norway; [Parkkari, Jari] Tampere Univ Hosp, Cent Hosp, POB 2000, FI-33521 Tampere, Finland; [Kannus, Pekka] Cent Hosp, Dept Orthoped & Traumatol, POB 2000, FI-33521 Tampere, Finland; [Rossi, Marleena Katariina] UKK Inst Hlth Promot Res, Tampere Res Ctr Sports Med, Kaupinpuistonkatu 1, Tampere 33500, Finland; [Rossi, Marleena Katariina] PL 30, Tampere 33501, Finland								3							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000640795700022	37	Article; Article		
J	Reuter, Peter R.								Joint hypermobility and musculoskeletal injuries in a university-aged population								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				49				123	128		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.02.009			MAY 2021	2021	Objective: To explore the correlation between joint hypermobility and risk of musculoskeletal injuries in a university-aged population. Design: Cross-sectional study using an anonymous survey. Setting: Anatomy & Physiology lab. Participants: 816 undergraduate Anatomy & Physiology students at a university in the United States. Main outcome measures: Beighton score, self-reported musculoskeletal injuries. Results: Athletically active study respondents reported more musculoskeletal injuries than respondents who indicated not being athletically active. Female respondents had lower rates of self-reported injuries than male respondents (55.4% vs. 65.5%; p = 0.0099; odds ratio: 1.53). The most commonly reported injury type for both women and men were quadriceps, groin and hamstring injuries. Neither male nor female respondents with generalized joint hypermobility (GJH) or localized joint hypermobility (LJH) reported higher rates of musculoskeletal injuries. Conclusions: Athletically active young adults are at greater risk for sustaining musculoskeletal injuries; however, there is no additional increase in injury risk for young people with GJH or LJH. (c) 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Reuter, Peter R.] Florida Gulf Coast Univ, Marieb Coll Hlth & Human Serv, Dept Rehabil Sci, 10501 FGCU Blvd South,Marieb Hall 419, Ft Myers, FL 33912 USA; [Reuter, Peter R.] Florida Gulf Coast Univ, Marieb Coll Hlth & Human Serv, Dept Rehabil Sci, 10501 FGCU Blvd South,Marieb Hall 419, Ft Myers, FL 33912 USA								9							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000640795700018	29	Article; Article		
J	Barton, C. J.; King, M. G.; Dascombe, B.; Taylor, N. F.; Silva, D. de Oliveira; Holden, S.; Goff, A. J.; Takarangi, K.; Shields, N.								Many physiotherapists lack preparedness to prescribe physical activity and exercise to people with musculoskeletal pain: A multi-national survey								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				49				98	105		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.02.002			MAY 2021	2021	Objectives: Determine physiotherapists' (i) awareness of physical activity, and exercise prescription guidelines; (ii) perceived role, knowledge, confidence, skills and training in prescribing and progressing aerobic exercise and resistance training to people with musculoskeletal pain; (iii) professional development preferences; and (iv) perceived influences of external factors on exercise prescription for people with musculoskeletal pain. Design: Multi-national cross-sectional survey. Methods: An open online survey was developed specifically for this study. Results: 1,352 physiotherapists from 56 countries participated. The majority of respondents correctly stated physical activity guidelines for adults (60%) and children (53%), but only 37% correctly stated guidelines for older adults. Eleven percent and 16% could name an accepted guideline for aerobic exercise and resistance training, respectively. Most agreed their role included prescribing aerobic exercise (75%) and resistance training (89%). Fewer reported they had the confidence, training or skills to prescribe aerobic exercise (38-50%) and resistance training (49-70%). Workshops were the most preferred (44%) professional development option. Most respondents believed appointment scheduling and access to equipment and professional development (62-79%) affected their ability to prescribe effective exercise. Conclusion: Many physiotherapists lack knowledge and training to provide physical activity advice, and to prescribe aerobic exercise and resistance training to people with musculoskeletal pain. (c) 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Barton, C. J.; King, M. G.; Dascombe, B.; Silva, D. de Oliveira; Goff, A. J.; Takarangi, K.] La Trobe Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Human Serv & Sport, La Trobe Sport & Exercise Med Res Ctr, Bundoora, Vic 3086, Australia; [Barton, C. J.] Univ Melbourne, St Vincents Hosp, Dept Surg, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Barton, C. J.; Taylor, N. F.; Shields, N.] La Trobe Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Human Serv & Sport, Dept Physiotherapy Podiatry & Prosthet & Orthot, Bundoora, Vic, Australia; [Dascombe, B.] Univ Newcastle, Sch Environm & Life Sci, Appl Sport Sci & Exercise Testing Lab, Ourimbah, Australia; [Taylor, N. F.] Eastern Hlth, Allied Hlth Clin Res Off, Box Hill, Vic, Australia; [Holden, S.] Aalborg Univ, Ctr Gen Practice, Aalborg, Denmark; [Holden, S.] Aalborg Univ, Dept Hlth Sci & Technol, SMI, Aalborg, Denmark; [Goff, A. J.] Singapore Inst Technol, Hlth & Social Sci, Singapore, Singapore; [Barton, C. J.] La Trobe Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Human Serv & Sport, La Trobe Sport & Exercise Med Res Ctr, Bundoora, Vic 3086, Australia								67							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000640795700014	49	Article; Article		
J	Powell, Andrew; Levy, Emma; Heneghan, Nicola R.; Horsley, Ian								Intra-rater reliability, inter-rater reliability and minimal detectable change of the posterior shoulder endurance test in elite athletes								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				49				62	67		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.02.004			MAY 2021	2021	Objective: Investigate intra-rater and inter-rater reliability of the posterior shoulder endurance test (PSET) and calculate minimal detectable change (MDC) to establish measurement properties and inform use of the PSET in practice. Study design: Test-retest reliability. Setting: British Canoe Slalom National Training Centre. Participants: Twelve participants (7 male, 5 female; 22.5 +/- 4.48 years; 73.4 +/- 6.36 kg) were investigated by two physiotherapists with > 10 years' experience. Main outcome measure: Intraclass correlation coefficients (ICC) were calculated for intra-rater reliability (ICC 3,1) and inter-rater reliability (ICC 2,1) and used to calculate MDC. Results: Intra-rater reliability scores were 0.84 and 0.85 for rater A and B, respectively, with 95% confi-dence interval (CI) crossing moderate to excellent reliability for both raters (0.5-0.75 and > 0.9). Inter rater reliability scores were 0.74 and 0.63 at baseline and follow-up, respectively, with 95% CI crossing poor to good reliability in both time points (< 0.5 and > 0.75). MDC95% for intra-rater scores was 6 repetitions, MDC95% for inter-rater scores was 8 repetitions at baseline and 9 repetitions at follow-up. Conclusion: The PSET has acceptable intra-rater reliability but further work is needed to narrow the CI to an appropriate level for inter-rater reliability. The MDC calculated helps clinicians interpret changes in tests scores. (c) 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Powell, Andrew; Levy, Emma] English Inst Sport, London, England; [Heneghan, Nicola R.] Univ Birmingham, Sch Sport Exercise & Rehabil Sci, Ctr Precis Rehabil Spinal Pain, Birmingham, W Midlands, England; [Horsley, Ian] English Inst Sport, Manchester, Lancs, England; [Powell, Andrew] British Canoeing, Lee Valley Whitewater Ctr, English Inst Sport, Stn Rd, Waltham Cross EN9 1AB, Herts, England								7							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000640795700009	34	Article; Article		
J	Peebles, Alexander T.; Arena, Sara L.; Queen, Robin M.								A new method for assessing landing kinematics in non-laboratory settings								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				49				21	30		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.01.012			MAY 2021	2021	Objectives: 1) Determine the concurrent validity of using automated 2D video analysis relative to 3D motion capture for assessing frontal and sagittal-plane knee kinematics during landing, 2) compare the accuracy of visually estimating joint center locations (2D Manual) with computing joint center locations using anatomical markers (2D Automatic), and 3) compare landing kinematics between a controlled laboratory setting and a non-laboratory setting. Design: Validity/repeatability study. Settings: Biomechanics research laboratory and non-laboratory athletic facility. Participants: Thirty uninjured recreational athletes. Main Outcome Measures: Peak knee flexion, knee flexion range of motion, peak knee frontal plane projection angle, and knee frontal plane projection angle range of motion during bilateral and unilateral landing were measured simultaneously in 3D using motion capture and in 2D using two low-cost video cameras during the first study session (biomechanics research laboratory), and in 2D only during the second study session (non-laboratory athletic facility). Results: There was good to excellent agreement between 3D motion capture and both 2D Manual (ICC = 0.86-0.99) and 2D Automatic (ICC = 0.89-0.99) video analysis methods. There was good to excellent agreement between data collected in a laboratory and non-laboratory setting (ICC = 0.75-0.95). Conclusion: The methods introduced in this study are inexpensive, reliable, and feasible for use in non-laboratory settings. ? 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Peebles, Alexander T.; Arena, Sara L.; Queen, Robin M.] Virginia Tech, Dept Biomed Engn & Mech, Blacksburg, VA USA; [Queen, Robin M.] Virginia Tech, Caril Sch Med, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Blacksburg, VA USA; [Peebles, Alexander T.] 495 Old Turner St,300 Norris Hall, Blacksburg, VA 24061 USA								10							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000640795700004	39	Article; Article		
J	Jang, Wonseok (Eric); Kim, Young Jun; Chang, Kyungro; Kim, Taehee								The effects of high-tech cameras on sports consumers' viewing experiences: the moderating role of sports involvement								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				23	1			59	74		10.1108/IJSMS-09-2020-0162			JAN 11 2022	2022	Purpose Based on the limited-capacity model of motivated mediated message processing (LC4MP), this study aims to examine the effects of different camera types on the viewing experiences of sports consumers and their intention to follow social media channels, depending on their level of sports involvement. Design/methodology/approach The design for this experiment utilized 2 (highly involved vs less involved sports consumers) x 2 (high-tech vs non-high-tech cameras) between-subjects design. Overall, 289 US-based sports consumers participated in this experiment. Findings The results indicate that sports videos recorded by high-tech cameras lead to greater perceived novelty than those recorded by non-high-tech cameras, thus enhancing sports consumers' intention to follow social media channels, especially when consumers are highly involved with the target sports. However, sports consumers who are less involved with particular sports become distracted during their viewing experiences when high-tech cameras are used to broadcast games; these consumers' intentions to follow social media channels are not strengthened. Originality/value Previous studies have focused mainly on the positive effects of high-tech cameras on the viewing experiences of sports consumers. Based on the LC4MP, the authors extend the existing literature not only by examining the mechanism that underpins the positive effects of high-tech cameras, but also by identifying a situation where the use of high-tech cameras results in a negative viewing experience for sports consumers.		[Jang, Wonseok (Eric); Kim, Young Jun; Chang, Kyungro; Kim, Taehee] Sungkyunkwan Univ, Coll Sport Sci, Suwon, South Korea; [Kim, Taehee] Sungkyunkwan Univ, Coll Sport Sci, Suwon, South Korea								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000645668200001	51	Article; Article		
J	Barake, Adrian J.; Mitchell, Heather; Stavros, Constantino; Stewart, Mark F.; Srivastava, Preety								Classifying player positions in second-tier Australian football competitions using technical skill indicators								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	1			73	82	17479541211010281	10.1177/17479541211010281			FEB 2022	2022	Efficient recruitment to Australia's most popular professional sporting competition, the Australian Football League (AFL), requires evaluators to assess athlete performances in many lower tier leagues that serve as pathways. These competitions and their games are frequent, widespread, and challenging to track. Therefore, independent, and reliable player performance statistics from these leagues are paramount. This data, however, is only meaningful to recruiters from AFL teams if accurate player positions are known, which was not the case for the competitions from which most players were recruited. This paper explains how this problem was recently solved, demonstrating a process of knowledge translation from academia to industry, that bridged an important gap between sports science, coaching and recruiting. Positional information which is only available from the AFL competition was used to benchmark and develop scientific classification methods using only predictor variables that are also measured in lower tier competitions. Specifically, a Multinomial Logistic model was constructed to allocate players into four primary positions, followed by a Binary Logit model for further refinement. This novel technique of using more complete data from top tier competitions to help fill informational deficiencies in lower leagues could be extended to other sports that face similar issues.		[Barake, Adrian J.; Mitchell, Heather; Stavros, Constantino; Stewart, Mark F.; Srivastava, Preety] RMIT Univ, Sch Econ Finance & Mkt, Bldg 80 Level 11,445 Swanston St, Melbourne, Vic 3000, Australia; [Stewart, Mark F.] RMIT Univ, Sch Econ Finance & Mkt, Bldg 80 Level 11,445 Swanston St, Melbourne, Vic 3000, Australia								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000649136200001	18	Article; Article		
J	Rietveld, Thomas; Mason, Barry S.; Goosey-Tolfrey, Victoria L.; van der Woude, Lucas H. V.; de Groot, Sonja; Vegter, Riemer J. K.								Inertial measurement units to estimate drag forces and power output during standardised wheelchair tennis coast-down and sprint tests								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	8			968	986		10.1080/14763141.2021.1902555			AUG 2 2024	2024	The purpose of this study was to describe and explore an inertial measurement unit-based method to analyse drag forces and external power loss in wheelchair tennis, using standardised coast-down and 10 m sprint tests. Drag forces and power output were explored among different wheelchair-athlete combinations and playing conditions (tyre pressure, court-surface). Eight highly trained wheelchair tennis players participated in this study. Three inertial measurement units (IMUs) were placed on the frame and axes of the wheels of their wheelchair. All players completed a set of three standardised coast-down trials and two 10 m sprints with different tyre pressures on hardcourt surface. One athlete completed additional tests on a clay/grass tennis-court. Coast-down based drag forces of 4.8-7.2 N and an external power loss of 9.6-14.4 W at a theoretical speed of 2 m/s were measured on hardcourt surface. A higher tyre pressure led to lower drag forces during coast-down tests on hardcourt surface (F-r (4) = 10.7, p = 0.03). For the single athlete, there was an external power loss of 10.4, 15.6 and 49.4 W, respectively, for the hardcourt, clay and grass. The current prediction of power output was implemented during coast-down testing; unfortunately, the power prediction during 10 m sprints was difficult to accomplish.		[Rietveld, Thomas; van der Woude, Lucas H. V.; de Groot, Sonja; Vegter, Riemer J. K.] Univ Groningen, Univ Med Ctr Groningen, Ctr Human Movement Sci, Groningen, Netherlands; [Mason, Barry S.; Goosey-Tolfrey, Victoria L.; van der Woude, Lucas H. V.; Vegter, Riemer J. K.] Loughborough Univ, Sch Sport Exercise & Hlth Sci, Peter Harrison Ctr Disabil Sport, Loughborough, Leics, England; [van der Woude, Lucas H. V.] Univ Groningen, Univ Med Ctr, Ctr Rehabil, Groningen, Netherlands; [de Groot, Sonja] Amsterdam Rehabil Res Ctr Reade, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [de Groot, Sonja] Vrije Univ Amsterdam, Fac Behav & Movement Sci, Dept Human Movement Sci, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Rietveld, Thomas] Univ Groningen, Univ Med Ctr Groningen, Ctr Human Movement Sci, Groningen, Netherlands								22							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000643835200001	47	Article; Article		
J	Patel, Hansa; Woods, Lisa; Teesdale-Spittle, Paul; Dennison, Elaine								A cross-sectional study of the relationship between recreational sporting activity and calcaneal bone density in adolescents and young adults								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				50	3			218	226		10.1080/00913847.2021.1903819			MAY 4 2022	2022	Objective: Childhood and adolescence are critical periods of bone development. Sporting activity is thought to impact peak bone mass acquisition, but most studies have used dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA) to assess bone health and reported associations between bone mass and elite sporting activity. The objective of this study was instead to assess the relationship between recreational sporting activity (RSA) and another bone assessment, calcaneal quantitative ultrasound (cQUS), in adolescents and young adults. Methods: We related recreational sporting activity, assessed through a lifestyle questionnaire, to heel ultrasound bone parameters in a cohort of New Zealand students aged 16-35 years. Complete datasets with data on all relevant confounders (body mass index (BMI), pubertal timing, smoking status, and alcohol consumption) were available for 452 participants. cQUS was performed using a Lunar Achilles EX II machine to obtain bone parameters, broadband ultrasound attenuation (BUA), and speed of sound (SOS); stiffness index (SI) was derived from these measures. All descriptive statistics and statistical analyses were carried out using SPSS Statistics for Macintosh, Version 23.0 (IBM Corp., Armonk, NY, USA). Results are presented as p-values and 95% CI. Results: Reported lifetime sport participation declined after an individual's mid-teens. Bone cQUS parameters (SI and BUA and T-score) were all positively associated with BMI, and current physical activity (SI, SOS, BUA, T-score, and Z-score) with SI and SOS measures most strongly associated with current high impact and past recreational sporting activity (all p < 0.05). Conclusion: Calcaneal heel ultrasound bone parameters were associated with physical activity, with SI and SOS rather than BUA more strongly related to current and past recreational sporting activity in young New Zealand adults.		[Patel, Hansa; Woods, Lisa; Teesdale-Spittle, Paul; Dennison, Elaine] Victoria Univ Wellington, Sch Biol Sci, Wellington, New Zealand; [Dennison, Elaine] MRC Lifecourse Epidemiol Unit, Southampton, Hants, England; [Dennison, Elaine] Victoria Univ Wellington, Sch Biol Sci, Wellington, New Zealand; [Dennison, Elaine] Univ Southampton, MRC Lifecourse Epidemiol Unit, Southampton, Hants, England								6							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000642141100001	72	Article; Article		
J	van den Hurk, Loreen; van den Besselaar, Marijn; Scheltinga, Marc								Exercise induced neuropathic lower leg pain due to a tibial bone exostosis								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				49	3			363	366		10.1080/00913847.2021.1910006			JUL 3 2021	2021	Objectives: The differential diagnosis of chronic exercise induced lower leg pain in sporters includes compartment syndrome and medial tibial stress syndrome. However, severe discomfort may also be caused by nerve entrapment. Methods: Here we present a marathon runner who reports pain day and night in the lower leg. Deep palpation suggested the presence of a bony tumor deep in the calf musculature, and digital pressure on the soleal sling was painful and elicited paresthesias in the foot. A swab test indicated a hypo-esthetic sole of the foot. Imaging revealed the presence of a tibial exostosis that was hypothesized to narrow the soleal tunnel and irritate the tibial nerve. Results: Via a medial infragenual approach, the soleal tunnel was opened. A bony prominence was found in direct contact to the tibial nerve. Resection of the exostosis with tibial nerve neurolysis completely abolished all of his symptoms. Conclusion: An awkward lower leg discomfort that is present at night and worsens during exercise combined with altered foot sole skin sensation in the presence of a tibial bone exostosis may suggest tibial nerve neuropathy. If conservative therapies fail, resection and neurolysis is advised.		[van den Hurk, Loreen; Scheltinga, Marc] Maxima Med Ctr, Dept Surg, Run 4600, NL-5500 Veldhoven, Netherlands; [van den Besselaar, Marijn] Maxima Med Ctr, Dept Orthoped, Veldhoven, Netherlands; [Scheltinga, Marc] Maxima Med Ctr, Dept Surg, Run 4600, NL-5500 Veldhoven, Netherlands								2							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000642160900001	11	Article; Article		
J	Donnelly, Cyril J.; Weir, Gillian; Jackson, Chris; Alderson, Jacqueline; Rafeeuddin, Radin; Sharir, Raihana; Vanrenterghem, Jos; Robinson, Mark A.								The inter-laboratory equivalence for lower limb kinematics and kinetics during unplanned sidestepping								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	3			324	334		10.1080/14763141.2020.1860254			MAR 3 2024	2024	Much inter-intra-tester kinematic and kinetic repeatability research exists, with a paucity investigating inter-laboratory equivalence. The objective of this research was to evaluate the inter-laboratory equivalence between time varying unplanned kinematics and moments of unplanned sidestepping (UnSS). Eight elite female athletes completed an established UnSS procedure motion capture laboratories in the UK and Australia. Three dimensional time varying unplanned sidestepping joint kinematics and moments were compared. Discrete variables were change of direction angles and velocity. Waveform data were compared using mean differences, 1D 95%CI and RMSE. Discrete variables were compared using 0D 95% CI. The mean differences and 95%CI for UnSS kinematics broadly supported equivalence between laboratories (RMSE <= 5.1 degrees). Excluding hip flexion/extension moments (RMSE = 1.04 Nm/kg), equivalence was also supported for time varying joint moments between laboratories (RMSE <= 0.40 Nm/kg). Dependent variables typically used to characterise UnSS were also equivalent. When consistent experimental and modelling procedures are employed, consistent time varying UnSS lower limb joint kinematic and moment estimates between laboratories can be obtained. We therefore interpret these results as a support of equivalence, yet highlight the challenges of establishing between-laboratory experiments or data sharing, as well as establishing appropriate ranges of acceptable uncertainty. These findings are important for data sharing and multi-centre trials.		[Donnelly, Cyril J.] Rehabil Res Inst Singapore, Singapore, Singapore; [Donnelly, Cyril J.; Weir, Gillian; Jackson, Chris; Alderson, Jacqueline] Univ Western Australia, Sch Human Sci Sport & Exercise Sci, Perth, WA, Australia; [Weir, Gillian] Univ Massachusetts Amherst, Dept Kinesiol, Biomech Lab, Amherst, MA USA; [Rafeeuddin, Radin; Sharir, Raihana] Univ Teknol MARA Uitm, Fac Sport Sci & Recreat, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia; [Rafeeuddin, Radin; Sharir, Raihana; Vanrenterghem, Jos; Robinson, Mark A.] Liverpool John Moores Univ, Sch Sport & Exercise Sci, Liverpool, Merseyside, England; [Vanrenterghem, Jos] Katholieke Univ Leuven, Dept Rehabil Sci, Leuven, Belgium; [Donnelly, Cyril J.] Rehabil Res Inst Singapore, Singapore, Singapore; [Donnelly, Cyril J.] Univ Western Australia, Sch Human Sci Sport & Exercise Sci, Perth, WA, Australia								4							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000642531700001	34	Article; Article		
J	Weiss, Maureen R.; Moehnke, Hailee J.; Kipp, Lindsay E.								A united front: Coach and teammate motivational climate and team cohesion among female adolescent athletes								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	4			875	885	17479541211006905	10.1177/17479541211006905			AUG 2021	2021	Based on theory and research on athlete motivation and sport cohesion, this study examined the concurrent association of perceived coach and peer motivational climates with team cohesion among female adolescent athletes. Participants (N = 235) included 14- to 18-year-old competitive volleyball players who completed self-report measures of motivational climates and team cohesion in the latter part of the season. Canonical correlation analysis revealed that all coach and peer task-involving dimensions were positively related, and peer intra-team conflict (ego-involving dimension) was negatively related, to team cohesion. Task-involving dimensions of coach cooperative learning and peer effort and relatedness support contributed most strongly to the relationship as did task cohesion. Multiple regression analyses showed that elements of both coach and peer climates were related to task and social cohesion. Findings extend past research by simultaneously examining coaches and peers as social sources of team cohesion among female adolescent athletes. Specific strategies are offered for how coaches can enhance team cohesiveness by directly shaping a task-involving climate, minimizing an ego-involving climate, and fostering a teammate task-involving climate that promotes positive peer interactions and relationships.		[Weiss, Maureen R.; Moehnke, Hailee J.] Univ Minnesota, Sch Kinesiol, Minneapolis, MN USA; [Kipp, Lindsay E.] Texas State Univ, Dept Hlth & Human Performance, San Marcos, TX USA; [Weiss, Maureen R.] Univ Minnesota, 1900 Univ Ave S, Minneapolis, MN 55455 USA								19							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000641913900001	57	Article; Article		
J	Mendes, Sergio; Oliveira, Ema Patricia; Monteiro, Diogo; Travassos, Bruno								The Portuguese referee performance model								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	5			1117	1125	17479541211006321	10.1177/17479541211006321			OCT 2021	2021	The concern with the performance of football referees has opened lines of investigation in areas such as technical and physical performance. Theoretical and analytical gaps regarding the causes of their performances in a holistic perspective are scarce. The purpose of this study is to understand how various processes of personal, career development and contextual nature influences the classification of football referees. The literature review on excellence and the performance of the referees allowed to define a model that contemplates three distinct areas: 1) personal experience; 2) sports course; 3) surrounding context. The model to understand the causes of the performance of the Portuguese referees was obtained by comparing the classification of referees for national boards between the periods of 2009-10 and 2018-19 with the relative data to their age, experience as a federated player and referee, region density and proximity to peers of national board. The results show that the performance of the referees is influenced by a set of processes such as individual experience, sporting background and the context. This article opens a new perspective on the referees' training process. Its content may constitute an important insight for the implementation of referee training programs, namely at the base.		[Mendes, Sergio; Oliveira, Ema Patricia] Univ Beira Interior, Dept Psychol & Educ, Covilha, Portugal; [Oliveira, Ema Patricia] Univ Evora, CIEP UE, Res Ctr Educ & Psychol, Evora, Portugal; [Monteiro, Diogo] Polytech Leiria, ESECS, Leiria, Portugal; [Monteiro, Diogo; Travassos, Bruno] CIDESD, Res Ctr Sport Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev, Vila Real, Portugal; [Travassos, Bruno] Univ Beira Interior, Dept Sport Sci, Covilha, Portugal; [Travassos, Bruno] Portugal Football Sch, Portuguese Football Federat, Oeiras, Portugal; [Mendes, Sergio] Univ Beira Interior, Dept Psychol & Educ, Covilha, Portugal								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000641915400001	58	Article; Article		
J	Rodriguez-Negro, Josune; Llodio, Inaki; Castillo, Daniel; Romaratezabala, Estibaliz; Yanci, Javier								Changes in selected locomotor skills of young runners after one athletic season: Influence of sex and age								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	5			1152	1161	17479541211006676	10.1177/17479541211006676			OCT 2021	2021	The aim of the present research was to describe the changes in the locomotor competence [i.e. sprint, change of direction ability (CODA) and jump capacity] of young runners from an athletic training school after one season, according to runners' sex and age. Two hundred and forty-one young runners from an athletic training school were divided by sex (boys, n = 107, and girls, n = 134) and age [under 8 years old (U8, n = 70), under 10 years old (U10, n = 68), under 12 years old (U12, n = 45), under 14 years old (U14, n = 39) and under 16 years old (U16, n = 19)]. At the start of the training season (PRE) and at the end of the season (POST), the runners performed different tests in order to assess their locomotor competence. The results showed that boys and girls improved their performance during the season in the 5 m sprint (p = 0.000, ES = -0.58 to -0.74) and horizontal countermovement jump (HCMJ) (p = 0.000, ES = 0.51 to 1.02), and decreased it in the 15 m sprint test (p = 0.011 or p = 0.006, ES = 0.27 to 0.31), and only girls improved in change of direction ability (CODA) (p = 0.000, ES = -0.22 to -0.27). In addition, with respect to age categories, all groups improved their performance in the HCMJ (p = 0.000 - 0.005, ES > 0.40) and the 5 m sprint tests (p = 0.000 - 0.002, ES = -0.68 to -1.24). Although in the 505 test no group improved its result (p = 0.184 - 0.314, ES = -0.25 to 0.01), the U8 and U10 groups improved in the modified agility test (MAT) (p = 0.000 or p = 0.003, ES = -0.38 to -0.41). In conclusion, there are differences in the changes in the locomotor competence according to runners' sex and age, so perhaps age- and sex-dependent specialization in training is necessary.		[Rodriguez-Negro, Josune] Univ Basque Country, Fac Educ & Sport, Phys Educ & Sport Dept, UPV EHU, Vitoria, Spain; [Llodio, Inaki; Romaratezabala, Estibaliz; Yanci, Javier] Univ Basque Country, Fac Educ & Sport, Phys Educ & Sport Dept, Soc Sports & Phys Exercise Res Grp GIKAFIT,UPV EH, Vitoria, Spain; [Castillo, Daniel] Univ Isabel I, Fac Hlth Sci, Burgos, Spain; [Romaratezabala, Estibaliz] Univ Basque Country, Fac Educ & Sport, UPV EHU, Lasarte 71, Vitoria 01007, Spain								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000638965500001	71	Article; Article		
J	Akhigbe, Aigbe; Newman, Melinda; Whyte, Ann Marie								Is There a Differential Market Size Effect in US Free Agent Signings? Evidence From Localized Sentiment Trading								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				22	6			678	721	15270025211007193	10.1177/15270025211007193			AUG 2021	2021	We consider three professional sports and examine if there is a disparate return response to free agent signings with small versus big market franchises. After controlling for player ability, contract characteristics, and negotiation conditions, we find evidence of a more pronounced negative small market effect in response to both basketball and baseball signings, and a more pronounced negative big market effect in response to football signings. Our results suggest that differential market size sensitivities are complex, reflecting the influence of factors such as player ability and compensation in ways that are highly nuanced and unique to each league.		[Akhigbe, Aigbe; Newman, Melinda] Univ Akron, Akron, OH 44325 USA; [Whyte, Ann Marie] Univ Cent Florida, Orlando, FL 32816 USA; [Newman, Melinda] Univ Akron, Akron, OH 44325 USA								1							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000638951000001	50	Article; Article		
J	Paris, Hunter L.; Sinai, Erin C.; Leist, Margaret A.; Crain, Carrington M.; Keller, Alexandra M.; Malysa, William; Renzullo, Shelby C.								Warm up intensity influences running performance despite prolonged recovery								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	5			1196	1203	17479541211004248	10.1177/17479541211004248			OCT 2021	2021	When competing in road races, runners enter starting corrals long before the starting gun triggers. Athletes consequently must complete warm up routines well in advance of race commencement. To optimize performance readiness warm up intensity may need altered to account for the prolonged time between warm up and performance. This study tested the effectiveness of various warm up intensities on 1600 m run performance given a 20 min separation between warm up and time trial, and assessed the physiological bases for performance outcomes. In a randomized, crossover design, 14 athletic men and women [(age (mean +/- SEM) = 22 +/- 1 y; V center dot O(2)peak = 50.3 +/- 2.5 ml center dot kg(-1)center dot min(-1)] completed three warm up routines (light-, moderate-, or high-intensity warm up), rested for 20 min, and ran a 1600 m time trial. Warm up procedures were evaluated for their influence on performance, blood lactate, V center dot O-2, and alterations to neuromuscular function. Time trial performance was significantly faster (P < 0.03) following a moderate-intensity warm up (6:12 +/- 18 min:s center dot 1600 m(-1)) compared to a light-intensity warm up (6:30 +/- 18 min:s center dot 1600 m(-1)). Performance following the high-intensity warm up (6:18 +/- 24 min:s center dot 1600 m(-1)) fell between the light and moderate conditions. When stratified based on starting lactate concentrations, 1600 m performance was optimized when pre-time trial lactate was 2.0-4.9 mmol center dot l(-1). When a prolonged rest separates warm up exercise from time trial performance, warming up remains efficacious. Optimal warm up intensity may be identified using starting lactate as a gauge for performance readiness.		[Paris, Hunter L.; Sinai, Erin C.; Leist, Margaret A.; Crain, Carrington M.; Keller, Alexandra M.; Malysa, William; Renzullo, Shelby C.] Pepperdine Univ, Dept Sports Med, Malibu, CA 90263 USA; [Paris, Hunter L.] Pepperdine Univ, Dept Sports Med, Malibu, CA 90263 USA								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000638960300001	24	Article; Article		
J	Baker, Hayden P.; Satinsky, Alexander; Lee, Cody S.; Seidel, Henry; Dwyer, Emma; Athiviraham, Aravind								The targeting rule does not increase the rate of lower extremity injuries in NFL players over two seasons								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				50	3			239	243		10.1080/00913847.2021.1910873			MAY 4 2022	2022	Objectives: In 2018 the NFL instituted playing rule article 8, which aimed to help decrease sport related concussion (SRC) by broadening the helmet-hit rule, making it a foul when a player lowers his head to make contact with his helmet against an opponent. Previous studies have demonstrated that the rate of lower extremity injuries increased following the institution of the targeting rule in NCAA football. The objective of this study was to determine if playing rule article 8 unintentionally led to a significant increase in the rate of lower extremity injuries sustained by NFL players during regular season games. Methods: This study was a retrospective review of all NFL players who were placed on the publically available injury reports for a lower extremity injury from the 2016-2017 through 2019-2020 regular seasons. With article 8 taking effect starting with the 2018-2019 season, players were assigned to a pre- or post-rule cohort based on date of injury for purposes of injury rate comparison. Injury rates were calculated per 1000 athletic exposures (AE). Incidence rate ratio (RR) with 95% confidence intervals (CI) compared injury rates between the two cohorts. Results: There was a 3% decrease in the lower extremity injury rate in 2018-2019 to 2019-2020 compared with 2016-2017 to 2017-2018, however this was not statistically significant (33.6 versus 34.3/1000 AEs, respectively; RR, 0.97; 95% CI 0.92-1.04). There was a 40% decrease in the SRC rate when comparing the post- to the pre-article-8 cohort (3.3 vs. 5.5/1000 AEs, respectively; RR 0.60; 95% CI 0.50-0.73). Conclusions: The rate of lower extremity injuries and players placed on the injury reserve over the past two NFL seasons following the enactment of playing rule article 8 has not significantly increased. However, the average games missed due to lower extremity injuries significantly increased under playing rule article 8, which suggests that the severity of lower extremity injuries possibly increased.		[Baker, Hayden P.; Satinsky, Alexander; Lee, Cody S.; Seidel, Henry; Dwyer, Emma; Athiviraham, Aravind] Univ Chicago, Dept Orthopaed Surg, 5758 S Maryland Ave,4B, Chicago, IL 60637 USA; [Baker, Hayden P.] Univ Chicago, Dept Orthopaed Surg, 5758 S Maryland Ave,4B, Chicago, IL 60637 USA								4							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000636899500001	16	Article; Article		
J	Bryant, Lynne; Burson, Sheri L.; Fisher, Jenna; Killian, Chad M.; Mulhearn, Shannon C.; Nesbitt, Danielle; Pfledderer, Christopher D.; Castelli, Darla M.								Evidence Supporting the Essential Components of Physical Education as a Measure of Quality								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				92	2			259	269		10.1080/02701367.2021.1883505			APR 3 2021	2021	Purpose: The purpose of this article is to provide a summary of contemporary empirical evidence supporting the need for the essential components of physical education as the minimum threshold of quality. The collective findings from a series of systematic reviews conducted through university, community, and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) collaborations are timely and warranted given the current trends in physical inactivity and obesity among youth and emerging adults. Methods: Faculty and students from five doctoral physical education teacher education programs (D-PETE) conducted distinct but interrelated systematic reviews of the Essential Components of Physical Education-policy and environment, curriculum, instruction, and assessment. Using the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA) guidelines (identify, screen, determine eligibility, and include), relevant studies were extracted from six databases. Only peer-reviewed publications related to each essential component were examined. Full papers were included in the final analysis if they were published between January 2000 and May 1, 2020, had a primary outcome related to PreK-12 physical education, and were empirical and original investigations. Results: Each essential component, in part, was empirically supported. Some actionable criteria for a given component were underdeveloped and in need of more empirical research to advance our understanding of policy and environment, curriculum, instruction, and assessment in authentic contexts. Conclusions: Implications for the essential components of physical education and future directions for K-12 physical education, teacher education, and research are outlined in this article.		[Bryant, Lynne; Burson, Sheri L.; Castelli, Darla M.] Univ Texas Austin, Austin, TX 78712 USA; [Fisher, Jenna; Killian, Chad M.] Georgia State Univ, Atlanta, GA 30303 USA; [Mulhearn, Shannon C.] Univ Nebraska, Kearney, NE USA; [Nesbitt, Danielle] Fayetteville State Univ, Fayetteville, NC 28301 USA; [Pfledderer, Christopher D.] Univ Utah, Salt Lake City, UT USA; [Castelli, Darla M.] Univ Texas Austin, Dept Kinesiol & Hlth Educ, 2109 San Jacinto Blvd,Mail Code D3700, Austin, TX 78712 USA								8							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000652030300007	44	Article; Article		
J	Solomito, Matthew J.; Garibay, Erin J.; Golan, Elan; Nissen, Carl W.								Elbow flexion post ball release is associated with the elbow varus deceleration moments in baseball pitching								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				20	3			370	379		10.1080/14763141.2018.1560495			APR 3 2021	2021	The association between breaking pitches and elbow injury remains nebulous. Biomechanical studies have shown that throwing a fastball rather than a curveball results in greater elbow moments, despite some epidemiological studies and pitcher self-report indicating the opposite. This leads to the following question: Are biomechanical studies missing something that could explain this discrepancy? This study evaluated the association between elbow kinematics of baseball pitchers during the deceleration phase of the pitch and the elbow varus moment. Eighty-seven uninjured collegiate pitchers were analysed using 3-dimensional motion capture techniques. Results indicated that pitchers who remained in greater elbow flexion had greater post ball release elbow varus moments (EVMPBR) (p = 0.001). Regression analysis indicated that for every 10 degrees of increased elbow flexion during follow-through the EVMPBR increased by 5.4 Nm for the fastball and 8.2 Nm for the curveball (p < 0.001). This suggests a concerning second stress on the elbow joint occurring during the deceleration phase of the pitch. The results showed that maintaining greater elbow flexion during the deceleration phase of the pitch can substantially increase the elbow varus moment after ball release (BR), especially when pitching the curveball. The results reinforce the need to emphasise appropriate pitching mechanics.		[Solomito, Matthew J.; Garibay, Erin J.] Connecticut Childrens Med Ctr, Orthoped & Sports Med Res, Farmington, CT 06032 USA; [Golan, Elan] Maimonides Hosp, Orthopaed Surg, Brooklyn, NY 11219 USA; [Nissen, Carl W.] Connecticut Childrens Med Ctr, Elite Sports Med, Farmington, CT USA; [Solomito, Matthew J.] Connecticut Childrens Med Ctr, Orthoped & Sports Med Res, Farmington, CT 06032 USA								12							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000623646700008	25	Article; Article		
J	Azevedo, Ana Paula Silva; Brandina, Katia; Pennone, Juliana; Amadio, Alberto Carlos; Serrao, Julio Cerca								Perception of impact is affected by stimulus intensity								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				20	3			380	390		10.1080/14763141.2018.1553245			APR 3 2021	2021	Perception of external loads may be a central topic to understand adjustments to the mechanical demands during movement. Nevertheless, the association between the perceived and the real load received is still controversial. This study aimed to correlate vertical ground reaction force (vGRF) to the perception of impact in different regimens of stimulus application. Ten physically active men performed drop jumps from four different heights (0.20, 0.40, 0.60 and 0.80 m). A force plate measured the vGRF, while perception of impact was evaluated through Borg's Ratings of Perceived Exertion. Higher values of maximum vGRF (Fy_max) and impulse of the first 50 ms (I_50), and reduced time to reach Fy_max indicate increased external forces as drop jump height raised. Perception of impact increased gradually with increasing jump height for I_50. Fy_max and I_50 showed moderate to strong correlations to perceived load for 70% and 90% of participants, respectively. Higher and different intensity of stimulus facilitated the perception of impact, presenting moderate to strong correlations to kinetic parameters related to external load during landing from drop jump. Perception of higher impacts could be used as a surrogate to monitor 'real' impacts and possibly also for managing impact-related injury risk.		[Azevedo, Ana Paula Silva; Brandina, Katia; Pennone, Juliana; Amadio, Alberto Carlos; Serrao, Julio Cerca] Univ Sao Paulo, Sch Phys Educ & Sport, Lab Biomech, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Azevedo, Ana Paula Silva] Univ Sao Paulo, Sch Phys Educ & Sport, Lab Biomech, Sao Paulo, Brazil								3							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000623646700009	46	Article; Article		
J	Nagahara, Ryu; Kanehisa, Hiroaki; Matsuo, Akifumi; Fukunaga, Tetsuo								Are peak ground reaction forces related to better sprint acceleration performance?								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				20	3			360	369		10.1080/14763141.2018.1560494			APR 3 2021	2021	This study aimed to elucidate whether the peak (maximum) ground reaction force (GRF) can be used as an indicator of better sprint acceleration performance. Eighteen male sprinters performed 60-m maximal effort sprints, during which GRF for a 50-m distance was collected using a long force platform system. Then, step-to-step relationships of running acceleration with mean and peak GRFs were examined. In the anteroposterior direction, while the mean propulsive force was correlated with acceleration during the initial acceleration phase (to the 5th step) (r = 0.559-0.713), peak propulsive force was only correlated with acceleration at the 9th step (r = 0.481). Moreover, while the mean braking force was correlated with acceleration at the 20th and 22nd steps (r = 0.522 and 0.544, respectively), peak braking force was not correlated with acceleration at all steps. In the vertical direction, significant negative correlations of mean and peak vertical forces with acceleration were found at the same steps (16th, 20th and 22nd step). These results indicate that while the peak anteroposterior force cannot be an indicator of sprint acceleration performance, the peak vertical force is likely an indicator for achieving better acceleration during the later stage of maximal acceleration sprinting.		[Nagahara, Ryu; Kanehisa, Hiroaki; Matsuo, Akifumi; Fukunaga, Tetsuo] Natl Inst Fitness & Sports Kanoya, Kanoya, Japan; [Nagahara, Ryu] Natl Inst Fitness & Sports Kanoya, Kanoya, Japan								33							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000623646700007	19	Article; Article		
J	Garcia-Ramos, Amador; Perez-Castilla, Alejandro; Villar Macias, Francisco Javier; Latorre-Roman, Pedro A.; Parraga, Juan A.; Garcia-Pinillos, Felipe								Differences in the one-repetition maximum and load-velocity profile between the flat and arched bench press in competitive powerlifters								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				20	3			261	273		10.1080/14763141.2018.1544662			APR 3 2021	2021	This study aimed to compare the one-repetition maximum (1RM) and the velocity outcomes obtained against the same absolute and relative (%1RM) loads between the flat and arched bench press (BP) variants. Eleven competitive male powerlifters were evaluated in one session with the flat BP (natural lumbar arch and moderate scapular retraction) and in another session with the arched BP (pronounced lumbar arch and scapular retraction). An incremental loading test was used to determine the 1RM as well as the barbell's velocity against the different external loads. The main findings revealed that the 1RM did not significantly differ between the flat (115.9 +/- 17.9 kg) and arched (115.7 +/- 18.4 kg) BP variants (p = 0.942, effect size = 0.01), while there were no significant differences between BP variants either for the velocity outcomes obtained against the individual loads nor for the velocities associated with each %1RM (p > 0.05). These results suggest that competitive powerlifters do not necessarily present their higher 1RM performance using the arched BP variant. Finally, both BP variants could be used interchangeably when using movement velocity for testing upper-body strength as well as for prescribing the load during velocity-based resistance training routines.		[Garcia-Ramos, Amador; Perez-Castilla, Alejandro] Univ Granada, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Granada, Spain; [Garcia-Ramos, Amador] Catholic Univ Most Holy Concepcion, CIEDE, Fac Educ, Dept Sports Sci & Phys Conditioning, Concepcion, Chile; [Villar Macias, Francisco Javier; Latorre-Roman, Pedro A.; Parraga, Juan A.] Univ Jaen, Dept Corporal Express, Jaen, Spain; [Garcia-Pinillos, Felipe] Univ La Frontera, Dept Phys Educ Sports & Recreat, Temuco, Chile; [Garcia-Ramos, Amador] Univ Granada, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Granada, Spain; [Garcia-Ramos, Amador] Catholic Univ Most Holy Concepcion, CIEDE, Fac Educ, Dept Sports Sci & Phys Conditioning, Concepcion, Chile								25							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000623646700001	30	Article; Article		
J	Garcia-Ramos, Amador; Perez-Castilla, Alejandro; Jaric, Slobodan								Optimisation of applied loads when using the two-point method for assessing the force-velocity relationship during vertical jumps								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				20	3			274	289		10.1080/14763141.2018.1545044			APR 3 2021	2021	This study aimed to compare the reliability and validity of the force-velocity (F-V) relationship parameters obtained from two-point methods differing in the distance between experimental points, and to evaluate the acute change in unloaded jump height after a vertical jump testing procedure based on multiple loads. Totally, 18 men randomly performed two sessions of the squat jump (SJ) and two sessions of the countermovement jump (CMJ) exercises against five external loads (17, 30, 45, 60 and 75 kg). The unloaded jump height was evaluated before and after each testing procedure. Five two-point methods (0-17, 0-30, 0-45, 0-60 and 0-75 kg) and the multiple-point method (0-17-30-45-60-75 kg) were used to model the F-V relationship. The most distant two-point method (0-75 kg) revealed a comparable reliability (CV< 12.1%; ICC> 0.72) and high concurrent validity (r > 0.91) with respect to the multiple-point method (CV< 10.9%; ICC> 0.72). The reliability and validity of the two-point methods decreased with the proximity of the applied loads. Unloaded jump height was significantly reduced after both testing procedures (p < 0.05). These results support the two-point method based on distant loads as a quick and less prone to fatigue procedure for testing the F-V relationship through vertical jumps.		[Garcia-Ramos, Amador; Perez-Castilla, Alejandro] Univ Granada, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Granada, Spain; [Garcia-Ramos, Amador] Catholic Univ Most Holy Concepcion, Dept Sports Sci & Phys Conditioning, Fac Educ, CIEDE, Concepcion, Chile; [Jaric, Slobodan] Univ Delaware, Dept Kinesiol & Appl Physiol, Newark, DE USA; [Jaric, Slobodan] Univ Delaware, Biomech & Movement Sci Grad Program, Newark, DE USA; [Garcia-Ramos, Amador] Univ Granada, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Granada, Spain; [Garcia-Ramos, Amador] Catholic Univ Most Holy Concepcion, Dept Sports Sci & Phys Conditioning, Fac Educ, CIEDE, Concepcion, Chile								71							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000647698300001	32	Article; Article		
J	Iglesias-Soler, Eliseo; Mayo, Xian; Rial-Vazquez, Jessica; Haff, Guy G.								Inter-individual variability in the load-velocity relationship is detected by multilevel mixed regression models								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				20	3			304	318		10.1080/14763141.2018.1548640			APR 3 2021	2021	The main aim of this study was to explore the variability in the load-velocity relationship through the use of multilevel mixed regression models. The relationship between relative load (% of one repetition maximum: %1RM) and velocity was obtained in a sample of high-level judokas and rugby players (8 women and 13 men) for the bench press (BP) and parallel squat (SQ). The load-velocity relationship for the squat was obtained for the external load (barbell load) and for the system mass (barbell plus body mass). The data were fitted by different multilevel mixed regression models. Including the sex factor in the models improved the goodness of fit for the BP but not for the squat exercises. All the models detected significant inter-individual variability in both intercepts and slopes (p < 0.05 in all the cases). A decrease of 0.15, 0.10 and 0.16 m/s of velocity for each 10% of increment in the relative load were estimated for BP and squat considering the external load and the system mass, respectively. The multilevel mixed regression models detected significant inter-individual variability in the slope and intercept of the load-velocity relationship what entails differences in the velocity associated with a fixed percentage (%) of the one-repetition maximum load.		[Iglesias-Soler, Eliseo; Mayo, Xian] Univ A Coruna, Fac Sports Sci & Phys Educ, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, La Coruna, Spain; [Mayo, Xian; Rial-Vazquez, Jessica] King Juan Carlos Univ, Ctr Sport Studies, Observ Hlth & Act Living Spain Act Fdn, Madrid, Spain; [Haff, Guy G.] Edith Cowan Univ, Ctr Exercise & Sports Sci Res, Joondalup, Australia; [Iglesias-Soler, Eliseo] Univ A Coruna, Fac Sports Sci & Phys Educ, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, La Coruna, Spain								14							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000623646700003	32	Article; Article		
J	Vannatta, C. Nathan; Kernozek, Thomas W.								Sex differences in gluteal muscle forces during running								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				20	3			319	329		10.1080/14763141.2018.1548641			APR 3 2021	2021	Sex differences in common sports injuries to the lower extremity have been reported. Biomechanical factors of the hip have been investigated between sexes with regard to running-related injury. This study investigates gluteal muscle forces between sexes to aid in our understanding of sex-related biomechanical factors in running. Twenty-one healthy male and female runners were participants. Each ran at a controlled speed of 3.52-3.89 m/s down a 20-m runway. Kinetic and kinematic data were utilised to estimate muscle forces. Multivariate analysis of variance tests were utilised to detect differences in gluteal and hamstring muscle forces, hip and pelvic kinematics, and hip kinetic variables between sexes. Males produced greater peak gluteus maximus force, but lesser peak gluteus medius, minimus, and hamstring force than females during running. Males also demonstrated less hip adduction and greater hip flexion and anterior pelvic tilt than females. Finally, males produced lesser peak hip abduction and external rotation moments than females. Males and females demonstrate differences in gluteal muscle forces and hip kinetics and kinematics during running. Further understanding of underlying muscle forces may offer further insight into biomechanical differences in running between males and females.		[Vannatta, C. Nathan] Gundersen Hlth Syst, Sports Phys Therapy Dept, Onalaska, WI 54650 USA; [Vannatta, C. Nathan; Kernozek, Thomas W.] Univ Wisconsin, La Crosse Inst Movement Sci, Phys Therapy Program, Dept Hlth Profess, La Crosse, WI 54601 USA; [Kernozek, Thomas W.] Univ Wisconsin, Phys Therapy Program, Dept Hlth Profess, La Crosse, WI 54601 USA; [Vannatta, C. Nathan] Gundersen Hlth Syst, Sports Phys Therapy Dept, Onalaska, WI 54650 USA; [Vannatta, C. Nathan] Univ Wisconsin, La Crosse Inst Movement Sci, Phys Therapy Program, Dept Hlth Profess, La Crosse, WI 54601 USA								13							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000623646700004	26	Article; Article		
J	Uhm, Jun-Phil; Lee, Hyun-Woo; Han, Jin-Wook; Kim, Dong-Kyu								Effect of background music and hierarchy-of-effects in watching women's running shoes advertisements								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				23	1			41	58		10.1108/IJSMS-09-2020-0159			JAN 11 2022	2022	Purpose The purpose of this study is to examine the effect of background music on consumer's psychological and physiological responses when watching sports advertisements. We investigated how consumers' exposure to background music affects emotional arousal, attention, brand attitude and purchase intentions; and further tested consumers' information processing by using the same measures. Effects of music on viewer responses were hypothesized using arousal theory while the information processing was hypothesized using hierarchy-of-effects model. Design/methodology/approach We employed a between-subjects experimental design with random assignment. Fifty-four participants were recruited with 27 in an experimental group and 27 in a control group. Quantitative electroencephalogram (qEEG) and self-report measures were used to assess information processing. A multivariate analysis of covariance was conducted to compare the mean differences of variables between the groups. Partial least squares algorithm and bootstrapping were performed to further explore the relationships among the measures. Findings Mean differences indicated that the background music exposed group's emotional arousal, attention, brand attitude and purchase intention were significantly higher than those of the non-exposure group. Path analysis showed that the level of arousal induced by watching sports advertisements affected attention, attention affected brand attitude and brand attitude affected purchase intention. Indirect paths from arousal to brand attitude and attention to purchase intention were significant. Originality/value This study provides practical implications for sports marketers regarding methods to increase the effectiveness of sport advertisement. Results might contribute theoretically to the sports advertisement field by demonstrating the relationship between physiological and marketing-effect factors. Our method of measuring physiological response using qEEG is also expected to influence physiological measurement in sports marketing.		[Uhm, Jun-Phil; Lee, Hyun-Woo] Texas A&M Univ, Dept Hlth & Kinesiol, College Stn, TX USA; [Han, Jin-Wook; Kim, Dong-Kyu] Kyung Hee Univ, Grad Sch Phys Educ, Global Campus, Yongin, South Korea; [Kim, Dong-Kyu] Kyung Hee Univ, Grad Sch Phys Educ, Global Campus, Yongin, South Korea								18							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000636748800001	82	Article; Article		
J	Hernandez-Stender, C. L.; Molina-Rueda, F.; Cuesta-Gomez, A.; Alguacil-Diego, I. M.								Lower limb muscle activation during outdoor running: differences between sprinters, middle-distance and long-distance runners								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	7			949	960		10.1080/14763141.2021.1902554			JUL 2 2024	2024	Running is one of the most popular sport practices in the world. However, to our knowledge, none of the previous research about the characteristics of outdoor running makes a distinction between the different modalities of runners. Sixty-five healthy runners classified in sprinters, middle distance and long-distance runners performed five series of 100 metres on the synthetic outdoor track at competition pace. Muscle activity of lower limb muscles at initial contact and toe-off, involving the gluteus medius (GMED), gluteus maximus (GMAX), biceps femoris (BF), rectus femoris (RF), tiabilis anterior (TA) and medial gastrocnemius (MGAS), and spatiotemporal parameters were analysed. Sprinters showed high percentages of muscle activity at initial contact, in particular, the TA activity was the highest. The RF activity was significantly the lowest activity registered. At toe-off, sprinters showed the highest activity in all muscles analysed. Middle-distance runners had the highest activity of GMAX, BF and MGAS during the initial contact. In long-distance runners, the GMED and RF activity during the initial contact is highlighted, showing the highest activity of this phase. Different patterns of lower limb muscle activity and spatiotemporal parameters exist depending on the modality of the runner.		[Hernandez-Stender, C. L.; Molina-Rueda, F.; Cuesta-Gomez, A.; Alguacil-Diego, I. M.] Univ Rey Juan Carlos, Hlth Sci Fac, Dept Physiotherapy Occupat Therapy Rehabil & Phys, Madrid, Spain; [Cuesta-Gomez, A.] Univ Rey Juan Carlos, Hlth Sci Fac, Dept Physiotherapy Occupat Therapy Rehabil & Phys, Madrid, Spain								6							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000635393900001	32	Article; Article		
J	Dijksma, Iris; Sharma, Jagannath; Gabbett, Tim J.								Training Load Monitoring and Injury Prevention in Military Recruits: Considerations for Preparing Soldiers to Fight Sustainably								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				43	2			23	30		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000632			APR 2021	2021	Musculoskeletal injuries (MSIs) during basic military training (BMT), frequently resulting in dropout, are well-recognized as a substantial problem both logistically and financially. Seven key evidence-informed principles of load management to minimize the risk of injury have been proposed in sport. A pertinent question is whether these principles can also be applied to military recruits by reducing the incidence and impact of MSIs and attrition from training. In this review, we address the challenges and possibilities of applying load management principles to BMT and suggest practical applications for military strength and conditioning professionals.		[Dijksma, Iris] Master Evidence Based Practice Hlth Care, Epidemiol & Data Sci, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Dijksma, Iris] Netherlands Armed Forces, Def Hlth Care Org, Utrecht, Netherlands; [Sharma, Jagannath] Infantry Training Ctr, Def Primary Healthcare, Med Ctr, Catterick Garrison, England; [Sharma, Jagannath] 251 Med Squadren, Sunderland, England; [Sharma, Jagannath] Univ Manchester, Div Populat Hlth, Manchester, Lancs, England; [Gabbett, Tim J.] Gabbett Performance Solut, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [Gabbett, Tim J.] Univ Southern Queensland, Ctr Hlth Res, Ipswich, Qld, Australia; [Dijksma, Iris] Master Evidence Based Practice Hlth Care, Epidemiol & Data Sci, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Dijksma, Iris] Netherlands Armed Forces, Def Hlth Care Org, Utrecht, Netherlands								16							Sport Sciences	WOS:000656630200003	58	Article; Article		
J	Toresdahl, Brett; McElheny, Kathryn; Metzl, Jordan; Kinderknecht, James; Quijano, Brianna; Ammerman, Brittany; Fontana, Mark Alan								Factors associated with injuries in first-time marathon runners from the New York City marathon								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				50	3			227	232		10.1080/00913847.2021.1907257			MAY 4 2022	2022	Objectives: To determine how baseline characteristics of first-time marathon runners and training patterns are associated with risk of injuries during training and the race. Methods: First-time adult marathon runners who were registered for the 2017 New York City Marathon were monitored starting 12 weeks prior to the race. Baseline data collection included demographics and running experience. Running frequency, distance, and injury occurrence were self-reported using online surveys every 2 weeks. Results: A total of 720 runners participated of which 675 completed the study. There were 64/675 (9.5%) who had major injuries during training or the race that preventing starting or finishing the race. An additional 332 (49.2%) had minor injuries interfering with training and/or affecting race performance. Injury incidence was not significantly different based on age or sex. Runners who completed a half marathon prior to the study were less likely to report getting injured [multivariable odds ratio (OR) 0.40, (0.22, 0.76), p= 0.005]. Runners who averaged <4 training runs per week during the study were less likely to report getting injured compared to those who averaged >= 4 per week [relative risk 1.36, (1.13-1.63), p= 0.001]. Longest training run distance during the study was inversely associated with race-day injury incidence [OR 0.87 (0.81, 0.94), pConclusion: Injuries are common among first-time marathon runners. We found that risk of injury during training was associated with lack of half marathon experience and averaging >= 4 training runs per week. Longer training runs were associated with a lower incidence of race-day injuries. These results can inform the development of targeted injury-prevention interventions.		[Toresdahl, Brett; McElheny, Kathryn; Metzl, Jordan; Kinderknecht, James; Quijano, Brianna] Hosp Special Surg, Primary Care Sports Med Serv, 535 E 70th St, New York, NY 10021 USA; [Ammerman, Brittany] Penn State Coll Med, Hershey, PA USA; [Fontana, Mark Alan] Ctr Advancement Value Musculoskeletal Care Hosp S, New York, NY USA; [Fontana, Mark Alan] Weill Cornell Med Coll, Dept Populat Hlth Sci, New York, NY USA; [Toresdahl, Brett] Hosp Special Surg, Primary Care Sports Med Serv, 535 E 70th St, New York, NY 10021 USA								11							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000635389000001	42	Article; Article		
J	Knuckles, Allison M.; Torp, Danielle M.; Hubbard-Turner, Tricia; Donovan, Luke; Thomas, Abbey C.								Multi-axis destabilisation device influences plantar pressure distribution in adults with chronic ankle instability								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				21	4			501	516		10.1080/14763141.2021.1896773			APR 21 2022	2022	Patients with chronic ankle instability (CAI) walk with increased lateral plantar pressure, precipitating future injuries. Gait retraining to medially shift plantar pressure may prevent recurrent injury. We assessed if a multi-axis destabilisation device changed plantar pressure and muscle activity in patients with CAI during walking. Twelve adults with CAI (age: 23.6 +/- 5.0 years; body mass index: 26.7 +/- 4.5 kg/m2) participated. Insole plantar pressure and electro-myography were collected synchronously during treadmill walking. The destabilisation device had a half-sphere under both the rearfoot and forefoot. Two 30s walking trials were recorded at baseline, first without and second with the destabilisation device. After 20 min of walking with the destabilisation device, two 30s post-walking trials were collected, first with and second without the destabilisation device. The middle 10 steps of each trial were extracted, plantar pressure quantified, and data averaged across steps for repeated measures ANOVA analysis. Electromyographic data wereextracted from 50 ms pre- through 200 ms post-initial contact. The centre of pressure shifted medially during destabilisation device use (P < 0.002) versus baseline. This shift was notretained upon device removal. Thus, the device capably shifts plantar pressure while worn. Its effects beyond a single sessionare unknown.		[Knuckles, Allison M.; Torp, Danielle M.; Hubbard-Turner, Tricia; Donovan, Luke; Thomas, Abbey C.] Univ North Carolina Charlotte, Dept Kinesiol, Biodynam Res Lab, Charlotte, NC 28223 USA; [Thomas, Abbey C.] Univ North Carolina Charlotte, Dept Kinesiol, Biodynam Res Lab, Charlotte, NC 28223 USA								3							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000634586500001	43	Article; Article		
J	Lee, Younghan; Kim, Dae-eun								The influence of technological interactivity and media sociability on sport consumer value co-creation behaviors via collective efficacy and collective intelligence								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				23	1			18	40		10.1108/IJSMS-04-2020-0058			JAN 11 2022	2022	Purpose The current study aims to explain the influence of technological interactivity and media sociability on sport consumer value co-creation behavior via collective efficacy and collective intelligence. Design/methodology/approach Subjects were individuals who have a mobile smart device and experience of accessing sport-related community websites (n = 513). A face-to-face self-administered survey was employed based on the convenience sampling method. A structural equation modeling test was conducted to examine the relationships between the variables. Findings Technological interactivity and media sociability based on mobile smart devices improve sport consumers' collective efficacy, and media sociability positively affects collective intelligence. Also, perceived collective efficacy and collective intelligence in virtual communities induce consumers to engage in the value co-creation process more actively (i.e. consumer participation behavior and citizenship behavior). One of the key findings includes the significant role of media sociability in the process of value co-creation between consumers and sport organizations. Media sociability is more likely to contribute to improving sport consumers' collective efficacy and the development of intelligence than the properties of technological interactivity. Originality/value Research findings contribute to extending the body of knowledge in interactivity studies related to sport consumers' value co-creation behaviors in the virtual environment context.		[Lee, Younghan; Kim, Dae-eun] Mississippi State Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Starkville, MS 39762 USA; [Kim, Dae-eun] Mississippi State Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Starkville, MS 39762 USA								24							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000631041700001	102	Article; Article		
J	Gutman, Michael J.; Gutman, Brian S.; Joyce, Christopher D.; Kirsch, Jacob M.; Sherman, Matthew B.; Namdari, Surena								Performance in major league baseball pitchers after surgical treatment of thoracic outlet syndrome								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				50	2			141	146		10.1080/00913847.2021.1880251			MAR 4 2022	2022	Introduction : Thoracic outlet syndrome (TOS) can be a career-threatening injury for Major League Baseball (MLB) pitchers, often requiring surgical management. The purpose of this study is to determine the efficacy of surgical management for TOS as a function of return to play and quantitative pitching metrics. Methods : 27 MLB pitchers underwent surgical treatment for TOS between January 2001 and December 2017. Analysis of pre and postoperative pitching metrics were used to assess the effect of surgery on 20 pitchers who returned to pitch in MLB. All pitching metrics were compared via assessing performance two years prior to surgery and two years after surgery. For 20 pitchers who returned to pitch, MLB pitching metrics of earned run average (ERA), walks plus hits per innings pitched (WHIP), wins above replacement (WAR), and average fastball velocity were used to assess a pitcher's ability to return to preoperative performance level. Results : Of the 27 pitchers, 20 pitchers were diagnosed with neurogenic thoracic outlet syndrome (NTOS) and seven with venous thoracic outlet syndrome (VTOS). The average age of onset of TOS was 28.6 years. There was no significant difference between the age of onset between the NTOS and VTOS populations (p = 0.272). Of the 27 pitchers, 20 (74.1%) were able to return to MLB play at a mean of 297 days (range, 105-638 days) after surgery. Pitching metrics demonstrated that pitcher ERA remained inferior postoperatively compared to baseline preoperative performance (3.66 vs 4.50, p = 0.03). Fastball velocity (p = 0.94) and strike percentage (p = 0.50) were equivalent to pre-injury performance. Conclusion : 74% of professional pitchers who undergo surgical intervention for TOS are able to return to play at the MLB level. With regards to performance, the majority of metrics were unchanged from prior to surgery, indicating return at a similar functional level.		[Gutman, Michael J.; Gutman, Brian S.; Joyce, Christopher D.; Kirsch, Jacob M.; Sherman, Matthew B.; Namdari, Surena] Thomas Jefferson Univ, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Rothman Inst, Philadelphia, PA 19107 USA; [Gutman, Michael J.] Thomas Jefferson Univ, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Rothman Inst, Shoulder & Elbow Surg, 925 Chestnut St,5th Floor, Philadelphia, PA 19107 USA								11							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000631416400001	24	Article; Article		
J	Qiu, Xiao; Veiga, Santiago; Lorenzo, Alberto; Kibele, Armin; Navarro, Enrique								Differences in the key parameters of the individual versus relay swimming starts								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	5			598	610		10.1080/14763141.2021.1878262			MAY 3 2024	2024	The purpose of the present study was twofold: (i) to compare the kinematic characteristics of individual and relay swimming starts; and (ii) to relate the kinematic variables to 5 m performance for both starts. Twelve elite-level swimmers performed 2 x 25 m at maximal effort (one with an individual and one with a relay start randomly). Two-dimensional direct linear transformation algorithms were used to calculate swimmers' centre of mass (CM) kinematics during each subphase. The results indicated moderate to much faster 5 m, 10 m 15 and 15 m times (29.4, 10.7 and 6.5%) for relay than individual starts as well as the differences at specific parameters, but no differences in take-off horizontal velocity between start techniques. Large correlations to performance times were found in block time, horizontal take-off velocity, take-off velocity and entry angle (r = 0.77 to 0.83) 20 for individual start, but in changeover time, take-off height and entry distance (r = 0.69 to 0.90) for relay start. Differences on swim start regulations between individual and relay events were in line with different key parameters related to start performances in each event. This should be considered by swimmers and coaches when addressing the starting improvement.		[Qiu, Xiao; Veiga, Santiago; Lorenzo, Alberto; Navarro, Enrique] Tech Univ Madrid, Fac Phys Act & Sports Sci, Dept Social Sci, Madrid, Spain; [Qiu, Xiao; Kibele, Armin] Univ Kassel, Inst Sports & Sport Sci, Kassel, Germany; [Veiga, Santiago] Tech Univ Madrid, Fac Phys Act & Sports Sci, Dept Social Sci, Madrid, Spain								8							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000629425900001	30	Article; Article		
J	Goldman, Michael; Brown, Brandon; Schwarz, Eric C.								Collaborative consumption sport hosting: value and consumption constraints								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				23	1			1	17		10.1108/IJSMS-10-2020-0183			JAN 11 2022	2022	Purpose The purpose of this paper is to find evidence of the benefits and constraints of collaborative consumption experiences by investigating the perceptions of hosts and visitors that attended professional regular season basketball and baseball games in the USA. Design/methodology/approach Data were collected through four focus groups with 37 total participants and were analyzed through qualitative content analysis. Findings The results show that participants in a collaborative consumption experience perceive four types of value: social interaction and belonging, new fandom, travel bucket list experiences and local and sport knowledge. In addition, the results provide evidence of five consumption constraints related to collaborative consumption: expenses, average experiences, seat location, interpersonal disconnects and personal risk. Research limitations/implications The selection of only two sites for the study limited the data triangulation that was possible. This study should be replicated across a wider range of teams and countries to confirm the main findings of the study. Practical implications Practitioners can use this initial study to better understand the benefits hosts and visitors perceive in the experience, and therefore the kind of experience design that would encourage increased purchases and loyalty. Originality/value This paper provides qualitative insights into the benefits and detriments of a collaborative consumption sport experience, based on participants' involvement in an innovative peer-to-peer platform.		[Goldman, Michael] Univ San Francisco, Sport Management, San Francisco, CA 94117 USA; [Goldman, Michael] Univ Pretoria, Gordon Inst Business Sci, Johannesburg, South Africa; [Brown, Brandon] NYU, Preston Robert Tisch Inst Global Sport, New York, NY USA; [Schwarz, Eric C.] Victoria Univ, Coll Sport & Exercise Sci, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Goldman, Michael] Univ San Francisco, Sport Management, San Francisco, CA 94117 USA; [Goldman, Michael] Univ Pretoria, Gordon Inst Business Sci, Johannesburg, South Africa								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000628755400001	44	Article; Article		
J	Oguchi, Takahisa; Ae, Michiyoshi; Schwameder, Hermann								Step characteristics of international-level skeleton athletes in the starting phase of official races								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	6			803	816		10.1080/14763141.2021.1893375			JUN 2 2024	2024	The step characteristics of the starting motion of international-level skeleton athletes were investigated in official races as well as the relationship between the start and finish times. The starting motion of 26 male athletes was recorded with four video cameras in Intercontinental and Europe Cups, 2018 and their starting motion was analysed by a three-dimensional direct linear transformation method. The start time showed significant correlation with the finish time (rho = 0.87, p < 0.001), as well as the sled speed at the 4 m (rho = -0.43, p = 0.029) and 9 m (rho = -0.79, p < 0.001) marks. The athletes were divided into two types according to the sled position and the foot for the 1st step: ipsilateral type and contralateral type. The sled speed of the ipsilateral type athletes in the 1st step was higher than that of the contralateral-type athletes. Step length from the 2nd to 5th and 7th steps showed a significant negative correlation with the start time (rho = -0.70 to -0.46, p = 0.001 to 0.032). The international-level skeleton athletes gained a shorter start time due to a large running speed by acquiring the large SL.		[Oguchi, Takahisa] Nippon Sport Sci Univ, Grad Sch Hlth & Sport Sci, Setagaya Ku, Tokyo, Japan; [Ae, Michiyoshi] Nippon Sport Sci Univ, Fac Hlth & Sport Sci, Setagaya Ku, Tokyo, Japan; [Schwameder, Hermann] Univ Salzburg, Dept Sport & Exercise Sci, Salzburg, Austria; [Oguchi, Takahisa] Nippon Sport Sci Univ, Grad Sch Hlth & Sport Sci, Setagaya Ku, Tokyo, Japan								2							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000627608500001	20	Article; Article		
J	Lombard, Wayne P.; Cai, Xudan; Lambert, Michael, I; Chen, Xiaoping; Mao, Lijuan								Relationships between physiological characteristics and match demands in elite-level male field hockey players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	4			985	993	1747954121998065	10.1177/1747954121998065			AUG 2021	2021	This study investigated the physical characteristics, match demands and their relationships in elite-level male field hockey players (n = 23; 24 +/- 3 years). Testing data were collected to investigate the physiological profiles of the players, while match demands were quantified with GPS data over 26 matches. There were significant differences (p = <0.05) between positional groups for pull ups, relative and absolute lower body strength, and body composition. Average total match distance for all the players was (5420 +/- 1518 m). There were significant differences between positional groups for defenders (5770 +/- 1419 m) vs strikers (4739 +/- 1409 m) and midfielders (5549 +/- 1545 m) vs strikers. The most high-speed-running (>4.5 ms(-1)) distance was covered by midfielders (950 +/- 275 m) and strikers (908 +/- 284 m). Midfielders (116 +/- 15 m min) and strikers (120 +/- 20 m min) achieved higher intensities during matches compared to defenders (105 +/- 13 m min). There were small differences between positional groups for physiological variables, but large variation between positional groups for match demands. There was a significant negative relationship between 2.4 km time trial vs high-speed running (p = <0.05), player load.min and match speed (p = <0.001). Also, there was a negative association between repeat sprint ability total time and high-speed running distance (p = <0.02) and match speed (p = <0.02). The countermovement jump height was associated with match speed (p = <0.05) and there was a negative relationship between body fat % and match speed (p = <0.02). When considering key performance indicators while using GPS devices, match speed (m.min) provides the most valuable information in field hockey players.		[Lombard, Wayne P.; Lambert, Michael, I] Univ Cape Town, Fac Human Biol, Div Exercise Sci & Sports Med, Cape Town, South Africa; [Cai, Xudan] Nanjing Normal Univ, Nanjing, Peoples R China; [Cai, Xudan] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Phys Educ & Sport Training, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Chen, Xiaoping] Ningbo Univ, Fac Phys Educ, Ningbo, Peoples R China; [Chen, Xiaoping; Mao, Lijuan] China Inst Sport Sci, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Lombard, Wayne P.] APA Training Syst Pty Ltd, POB 16380, ZA-1201 Nelspruit, South Africa								13							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000628957400001	35	Article; Article		
J	Changstrom, Bradley; McBride, Andrew; Khodaee, Morteza								Epidemiology of racket and paddle sports-related injuries treated in the United States emergency departments, 2007-2016								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				50	3			197	204		10.1080/00913847.2021.1892467			MAY 4 2022	2022	Objective: Racket and paddle sports are popular worldwide. Although there are several epidemiologic studies on tennis, there are limited epidemiologic studies on injuries in badminton, squash, racquetball, table tennis, pickleball and other racket and paddle sports. We aimed to analyze acute racket and paddle sports injuries that presented to emergency departments. Design: Descriptive epidemiologic study; level of evidence 3. Setting: United States emergency departments (USEDs) Methods: Data from National Electronic Injury Surveillance System (NEISS) were queried to characterize racket and paddle sports-related (RPSR) injuries that presented to USEDs over a 10-year period. Results: From 2007 to 2016, there were 7,723 cases of racket and paddle sports-related (RPSR) injuries that presented to USEDs. This data provides a weighted estimate of 301,038 RPSR injuries in USEDs over the 10-year study period. The majority (60.3) of these injuries were in men. Men had a higher percentage of injuries of most body parts except the lower arm, wrist, and ankle. The mean age at the time of injury was 37 years. The highest percentage of sprains, strains, and lower extremity injuries occurred in athletes between ages 18-40 years. Between sports, table tennis had highest percentage of skin and internal organ injuries while badminton had the highest percentage of sprains, strains, fractures, and dislocations. Conclusion: This study is the largest nationally representative study of RPSR injuries to date. RPSR injuries are varied in their presentation based on age, sex, body location, and type of injury.		[Changstrom, Bradley] Univ Colorado, Sch Med, Dept Med Gen Internal Med, Dept Orthoped, Denver, CO 80204 USA; [McBride, Andrew] Boulder Community Hlth Boulder, Boulder, CO USA; [Khodaee, Morteza] Univ Colorado, Sch Med Denver, Dept Orthoped, Dept Family Med, Denver, CO USA; [McBride, Andrew] Univ Colorado, Sch Med, Dept Med Gen Internal Med, Dept Orthoped, Denver, CO 80204 USA								29							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000626424800001	26	Article; Article		
J	Williams, Benjamin K.; Sanders, Ross H.; Ryu, Joong Hyun; Graham-Smith, Philip; Sinclair, Peter J.								Racket orientation angle differences between accurate and inaccurate squash shots, as determined by a racket embedded magnetic-inertial measurement unit								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	6			817	829		10.1080/14763141.2021.1892175			JUN 2 2024	2024	Ascertaining how racket orientation angle differences at ball-impact influence the accuracy of different squash strokes could assist player skill development and possibly reduce the number of unforced errors hit within a match. The purpose of this study was to identify differences in racket orientation angles of accurate and inaccurate forehand and backhand drive, volley and drop shots. A magnetic-inertial measurement unit embedded in a racket output orientation angles of twelve male junior players, with five accurate and five inaccurate shots per player per stroke analysed. Paired samples t-tests revealed that inaccurate backhand drop shots exhibited significantly (p < 0.05) less racket roll angle (racket face less open) at impact than accurate shots, indicating this parameter was a determining factor in the accuracy of this stroke. Racket orientation angle differences between accurate and inaccurate shots of the remaining strokes were too small to be used to distinguish shot accuracy. There was significantly greater variability in racket orientation angles during inaccurate forehand drop and backhand drive shots compared to accurate shots. These findings demonstrate how racket orientation angle differences at ball-impact can influence the accuracy of shots and highlights the need for consistent racket orientations to allow for an accurate shot.		[Williams, Benjamin K.; Ryu, Joong Hyun; Graham-Smith, Philip] Aspire Acad, Sport Sci Dept, Doha, Qatar; [Williams, Benjamin K.; Sanders, Ross H.; Sinclair, Peter J.] Univ Sydney, Fac Med & Hlth, Discipline Exercise & Sport Sci, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Graham-Smith, Philip] Univ Canberra, Res Inst Sport & Exercise, Canberra, ACT, Australia; [Williams, Benjamin K.] Aspire Acad, Sport Sci Dept, Doha, Qatar; [Williams, Benjamin K.] Univ Sydney, Fac Med & Hlth, Discipline Exercise & Sport Sci, Sydney, NSW, Australia								8							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000625707300001	42	Article; Article		
J	Hebert-Losier, Kim; Wardell, George Leslie								Acute and persistence of the effects of the SuperSpeed Golf™ weighted-club warm-up on golf driving performance and kinematics								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	6			709	727		10.1080/14763141.2021.1887344			JUN 2 2024	2024	High-level golfers use various warm-up strategies to enhance clubhead and ball speed, including weighted equipment. We investigated the acute effects of the SuperSpeed Golf (TM) weighted-club warm-up on clubhead, ball, and swing kinematics, and the persistence of any acute effects in subsequent sets. Twelve competitive golfers (handicap < 3.0) completed five sets of five swings using their own drivers under two randomised warm-up conditions (Control and SuperSpeed). We compared swing, peak segment and club angular velocity, and centre of mass (COM) parameters collected using a 3D motion capture system (500 Hz) between conditions. The temporal persistence of any meaningful (Cohen's d >= small) and significant (p <= 0.05) effect detected in the first set was investigated in subsequent sets. SuperSpeed led to small significant changes in clubhead speed (2.6 mph); downswing time; peak angular velocities of the torso, lead arm, and club; and two COM variables in the initial set. There was no significant change in ball speed, resulting in a large negative change in smash factor acutely (d - 0.82, p= 0.009). Nearly all changes observed were no longer meaningful or significant in subsequent sets. Overall, golfers can expect an increase in driving clubhead speed on the first tee using the SuperSpeed Golf (TM) vs Control warm-up, with trivial effects from the second tee onwards.		[Hebert-Losier, Kim; Wardell, George Leslie] Univ Waikato, Te Huataki Waiora Sch Hlth, Div Hlth Engn Comp & Sci, Tauranga, New Zealand; [Hebert-Losier, Kim] Univ Waikato, Te Huataki Waiora Sch Hlth, Div Hlth Engn Comp & Sci, Tauranga, New Zealand								6							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000625690600001	54	Article; Article		
J	Yang, Wen-Wen; Liu, Ya-Chen; Chen, Wei-Han; Tai, Hsing-Hao; Sato, Kimitake; Ma, Hsi-Pin; Liu, Chiang								Hitting weighted baseball enhances the experience of bat-ball contacts								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	6			728	739		10.1080/14763141.2021.1890196			JUN 2 2024	2024	Bat-ball contacts are critical in the baseball hitting process. However, an effective training method for increasing the impact perception of a bat-ball contact is currently unavailable. Although not widely used, hitting a stationary weighted baseball can be an appropriate method for batters to simulate the perception of hitting a moving baseball. Therefore, swing velocity, wrist vibration, and forearm muscle activation for hitting stationary weighted, stationary regulation, and pitched baseballs were investigated in this study. Twelve position players hit a stationary weighted, stationary regulation, and pitched baseball at a speed of 70.28 +/- 3.84 km/h in a random order. The swing velocity, wrist vibration, forearm muscle activation, and co-contraction ratio during hitting phases were analysed. The results indicated that the swing velocity during each specific phase demonstrated no significant differences between the different conditions. Hitting weighted and pitched baseballs caused higher wrist vibration, muscle activation, and co-contraction ratio during the contact phase than hitting regulation balls (p < 0.05). The conclusion was that hitting weighted baseballs could mimic the impact condition of hitting pitched baseballs without changing the pattern of swing velocity, which suggested that this method has potential as a hitting drill for improving hitting perception at bat-ball contact.		[Yang, Wen-Wen] China Med Univ, Dept Sports Med, Taichung, Taiwan; [Liu, Ya-Chen] Chung Hua Univ, Off Phys Educ, Hsinchu, Taiwan; [Chen, Wei-Han; Liu, Chiang] Univ Taipei, Grad Inst Sports Equipment Technol, Taipei, Taiwan; [Tai, Hsing-Hao] Chien Hsin Univ Sci & Technol, Off Phys Educ, Taoyuan, Taiwan; [Sato, Kimitake] Peak Force USA, Johnson City, TN USA; [Ma, Hsi-Pin] Natl Tsing Hua Univ, Dept Elect Engn, Hsinchu, Taiwan; [Ma, Hsi-Pin; Liu, Chiang] Natl Tsing Hua Univ, Ctr Sport Sci & Technol, Hsinchu, Taiwan; [Liu, Chiang] Natl Baseball Res & Dev Ctr, Taipei, Taiwan; [Liu, Chiang] Univ Taipei, Grad Inst Sports Equipment Technol, Taipei, Taiwan; [Liu, Chiang] Natl Tsing Hua Univ, Ctr Sport Sci & Technol, Hsinchu, Taiwan; [Liu, Chiang] Natl Baseball Res & Dev Ctr, Taipei, Taiwan								4							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000625711700001	29	Article; Article		
J	Ruiz-Navarro, Jesus J.; Cano-Adamuz, Marta; Andersen, Jordan T.; Cuenca-Fernandez, Francisco; Lopez-Contreras, Gracia; Vanrenterghem, Jos; Arellano, Raul								Understanding the effects of training on underwater undulatory swimming performance and kinematics								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	6			772	787		10.1080/14763141.2021.1891276			JUN 2 2024	2024	In swimming, the underwater phase after the start and turn comprises gliding and dolphin kicking, with the latter also known as underwater undulatory swimming (UUS). Swimming performance is highly dependent on the underwater phase; therefore, understanding the training effects in UUS and underwater gliding can be critical for swimmers and coaches. Further, the development of technique in young swimmers can lead to exponential benefits in an athlete's career. This study aimed to evaluate the effects of a training protocol on UUS and underwater gliding performance and kinematics in young swimmers. Seventeen age group swimmers (boys = 10, girls = 7) performed maximal UUS and underwater gliding efforts before and after a seven-week training protocol. Time to reach 10 m; intra-cyclic mean, peak, and minimum velocities; and gliding performance improved significantly after the training protocol. The UUS performance improvement was mostly produced by an improvement of the upbeat execution, together with a likely reduction of swimmers' hydrodynamic drag. Despite the changes in UUS and gliding, performance was also likely influenced by growth. The findings from this study highlight kinematic variables that can be used to understand and quantify changes in UUS and gliding performance.		[Ruiz-Navarro, Jesus J.; Cano-Adamuz, Marta; Cuenca-Fernandez, Francisco; Lopez-Contreras, Gracia; Arellano, Raul] Univ Granada, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sports, Aquat Lab, Granada, Spain; [Andersen, Jordan T.] Univ Sydney, Sydney Sch Hlth Sci, Fac Med & Hlth, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Vanrenterghem, Jos] Katholieke Univ Leuven, Dept Rehabil Sci, Leuven, Belgium; [Arellano, Raul] Univ Granada, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sports, Aquat Lab, Granada, Spain								33							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000625711800001	33	Article; Article		
J	van Oeveren, Ben T.; de Ruiter, Cornelis J.; Beek, Peter J.; van Dieen, Jaap H.								The biomechanics of running and running styles: a synthesis								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	4			516	554		10.1080/14763141.2021.1873411			APR 2 2024	2024	Running movements are parametrised using a wide variety of devices. Misleading interpretations can be avoided if the interdependencies and redundancies between biomechanical parameters are taken into account. In this synthetic review, commonly measured running parameters are discussed in relation to each other, culminating in a concise, yet comprehensive description of the full spectrum of running styles. Since the goal of running movements is to transport the body centre of mass (BCoM), and the BCoM trajectory can be derived from spatiotemporal parameters, we anticipate that different running styles are reflected in those spatiotemporal parameters. To this end, this review focuses on spatiotemporal parameters and their relationships with speed, ground reaction force and whole-body kinematics. Based on this evaluation, we submit that the full spectrum of running styles can be described by only two parameters, namely the step frequency and the duty factor (the ratio of stance time and stride time) as assessed at a given speed. These key parameters led to the conceptualisation of a so-called Dual-axis framework. This framework allows categorisation of distinctive running styles (coined 'Stick', 'Bounce', 'Push', 'Hop', and 'Sit') and provides a practical overview to guide future measurement and interpretation of running biomechanics.		[van Oeveren, Ben T.; de Ruiter, Cornelis J.; Beek, Peter J.; van Dieen, Jaap H.] Vrije Univ Amsterdam, Amsterdam Movement Sci, Fac Behav & Movement Sci, Dept Human Movement Sci, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [de Ruiter, Cornelis J.] Vrije Univ Amsterdam, Amsterdam Movement Sci, Fac Behav & Movement Sci, Dept Human Movement Sci, Amsterdam, Netherlands								122							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000625778900001	170	Article; Article		
J	Maughan, Patrick C.; MacFarlane, Niall G.; Swinton, Paul A.								Quantification of training and match-play load across a season in professional youth football players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	5			1169	1177	17479541211000328	10.1177/17479541211000328			OCT 2021	2021	The purpose of this study was to quantify load across an entire season for professional youth football players and assess the effects of stage of season, playing position and training day relative to match day (MD). Data from ratings of perceived exertion and seven global positioning system (GPS) derived measures of external training load were collected from 20 players across a 47-week season. Mixed linear models were used to assess the effects of stage of season, training proximity to match day (e.g. MD-1, MD-2) and position across each dependent variable. Training proximity to match day was found to have the most substantive effect with effect sizes ranging from small (eta(2)(G) = 0.08) to large (eta(2)(G) = 0.29). Across training load measures, mean values collected on match day were on average 47% higher than all other sessions. Whilst significant regression coefficients were obtained for playing position (p <= 0.003) and stage of season (p <= 0.049), effect sizes were close to zero (eta(2)(G) < 0:01) in each instance. This study provides insight into the season-long training and match-play demands of a professional youth football team. It highlights the significant impact of match-play on load and supports the use of multiple methods of collecting training load data. Overall, there was limited variation in mean values of dependent variables across playing position, stage of the season and loading during midweek training. These findings highlight the need for future research to investigate whether greater systematic variations in training load can be used to increase physical fitness and maximise physical performance during competition.		[Maughan, Patrick C.] Aberdeen Football Club, Aberdeen, Scotland; [Maughan, Patrick C.; MacFarlane, Niall G.] Robert Gordon Univ, Sch Hlth Sci, Garthdee Rd, Aberdeen AB10 7QG, Scotland; [Maughan, Patrick C.; Swinton, Paul A.] Univ Glasgow, Sch Life Sci, Glasgow, Lanark, Scotland; [Maughan, Patrick C.] Robert Gordon Univ, Sch Hlth Sci, Garthdee Rd, Aberdeen AB10 7QG, Scotland								20							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000626255200001	30	Article; Article		
J	LoSarah, Ladule Lako; Jagodinsky, Adam E.; Torry, Michael; Smith, Peter J.								Effects of attentional focus cues on lower extremity kinematics during inside of the foot soccer trap among expert soccer players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	4			957	967	1747954121994691	10.1177/1747954121994691			AUG 2021	2021	Numerous studies have demonstrated improved performance results for sport skills through attentional focus instructions. However, few studies have examined the effects of cueing on expert kinematic performance, and this is the first to assess cueing's kinematic effects on expert soccer players performing .common techniques This study assessed the lower extremity kinematics of an inside of the foot soccer trap via motion capture cameras under different attentional focus cues to analyze how the cues affect the movement pattern among expert performers. 10 NCAA Division 1 soccer players trapped a launched ball on a scoring mat after receiving coaching cues inducing an internal, external, holistic, or control focus of attention. Statistical analysis revealed movement differences between the internal and external cue conditions for the ankle and knee joints during the movement. The difference at the knee was a steeper flexion followed by a correction and, at the ankle, a steeper flexion, both during the internal cue condition. Attentional focus cues inducing a conscious control of the movement may disrupt the movement patterns of highly skilled expert performers. Coaches should be acutely aware of the language they use in instruction, even among expert performers.		[LoSarah, Ladule Lako] Texas A&M Int Univ, Dept Athlet, Mens Soccer, Laredo, TX USA; [Jagodinsky, Adam E.; Torry, Michael; Smith, Peter J.] Illinois State Univ, Dept Kinesiol & Recreat, Normal, IL 61761 USA; [LoSarah, Ladule Lako] Texas A&M Int Univ, 7550 Country Club Dr,Apt 5206, Laredo, TX 78041 USA								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000625639500001	24	Article; Article		
J	O'Dwyer, Anne; Bowles, Richard								"I'm valuing the journey as much as the destination": Exploring shared reflection to support novice coach learning								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	4			1035	1044	1747954121999759	10.1177/1747954121999759			AUG 2021	2021	This paper provides an insight into the trajectory of coach learning over two seasons through a shared reflective process. It describes how a collaborative process in a volunteer, amateur coach setting was supported and sustained. The coach-researchers had coached a university sports team together for two years prior to formalising the collaborative process. They adopted a collaborative self-study methodology to support and structure their reflective practice and learning throughout the study. Weekly individual and collaborative reflections were written by both coaches. They engaged with a critical friend to offer alternative perspectives on their reflections, and they planned their coaching strategies together. This paper illustrates the collaborative reflective process that supported the trajectory of the novice coach learning. This journey is represented using Fuller's concern based model to map concern for self, concern for the task and concern for the learners. The reflective process and learning trajectory are outlined to exemplify the value of informal collaborative reflection to support coach learning. Implications are outlined for shared reflective practice to enhance learning opportunities for other coaching partners and small groups or in other educational domains.		[O'Dwyer, Anne; Bowles, Richard] Mary Immaculate Coll, Limerick, Ireland; [Bowles, Richard] Mary Immaculate Coll, Limerick, Ireland								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000625638500001	53	Article; Article		
J	Edwards, Suzi; Tahu, Timana; Buchanan, Matthew; Tucker, Ross; Fuller, Gordon; Gardner, Andrew								Can prior instruction successfully alter the tackle type executed by a player?								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	4			944	956	1747954121996946	10.1177/1747954121996946			AUG 2021	2021	The tackle is the in-game activity with the greatest risk for injury in collision sports. Qualitative match analysis has associated injury risk with tackle technique (e.g. tackle height, head position before contact). This exploratory study used gold-standard three-dimensional (3D) motion capture to investigate whether prior instructions to a tackler to execute different torso tackle types altered their tackle technique. Fifteen amateur-level rugby code players performed four sets of 10 tackle trials after instructions from an expert coach: two Australian National Rugby League (NRL) coaching manual instructions on upper and lower torso tackle height (UpperNRL, LowerNRL); and two novel variants that altered the tackler's contact with the ball carrier's upper torso (UpperPop) via a vertical 'pop action', or mid-torso (MidTorso) via increasing the contact height to the mid-torso. 3 D motion capture confirmed a favourable 'head up and forward' gaze focus on ball carrier before contact and a 'straight back' posture was more evident in UpperPop instruction than other instructions, with the least flexion for the head, trunk, trunk-pelvis, thoracolumbar and lumbopelvic (p < 0.01). MidTorso also attained a more optimal 'head up and forward' and a 'straight back' posture than a LowerNRL (p < 0.001). 'Leg drive on contact' revealed ankle, hip (p < 0.01) and thigh angles (p < 0.05) differences, likely to reflect the UpperPop 'pop action' instruction than other instructions. For coaches, this study demonstrated that amateur-level rugby-code players could follow instruction from an expert coach to execute tackling techniques within a session. Inclusion of tackle specific coaching instruction training program may be a viable injury reduction strategy.		[Edwards, Suzi; Tahu, Timana; Buchanan, Matthew] Univ Newcastle, Sch Environm & Life Sci, 10 Chittaway Rd, Ourimbah, NSW 2258, Australia; [Edwards, Suzi; Tahu, Timana; Gardner, Andrew] Univ Newcastle, Prior Res Ctr Stroke & Brain Injury, Callaghan, NSW, Australia; [Edwards, Suzi] Univ Newcastle, Prior Res Ctr Phys Act & Nutr, Callaghan, NSW, Australia; [Tucker, Ross] World Rugby Pty Ltd, Dublin, Ireland; [Fuller, Gordon] Univ Sheffield, Sch Hlth & Related Res, Emergency Med Res Sheffield Grp, Sheffield, S Yorkshire, England; [Gardner, Andrew] Univ Newcastle, Sch Med & Publ Hlth, Callaghan, NSW, Australia; [Gardner, Andrew] Hunter New England Local Hlth Dist Sports Concuss, Newcastle, NSW, Australia; [Edwards, Suzi] Univ Newcastle, Sch Environm & Life Sci, 10 Chittaway Rd, Ourimbah, NSW 2258, Australia								12							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000625638700001	52	Article; Article		
J	Niespodzinski, Bartlomiej; Grad, Rafal; Kochanowicz, Andrzej; Mieszkowski, Jan; Marina, Michel; Zasada, Mariusz; Kochanowicz, Kazimierz								The Neuromuscular Characteristics of Gymnasts' Jumps and Landings at Particular Stages of Sports Training								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				78	1			15	28		10.2478/hukin-2021-002715			MAR 2021	2021	Safe and proper landings are crucial elements of gymnastics events. Long-term training leads to specific neuromuscular adaptations which are yet to be explored in terms of gymnastic landings. The aim of the study was to assess differences in landings' neuromuscular characteristics between gymnasts at three subsequent gymnastic training stages and age-matched non-athletes. Forty-six gymnasts (G) and 58 controls (C) performed countermovement jumps on a force plate with simultaneous surface electromyography (SEMG) of lower body muscles, measured during the pre -(100 ms) and post-landing phase (0-100 and 0-200 ms). Three age groups participated in the study: 8-10 (G1, C1), 12- 14 (G2, C2), 18-25 (G3, C3) years. Analysis included the normalized root mean square (NRMS) SEMG signal and ground reaction forces (GRFs). Gymnasts achieved 13% higher values (p = 0.04) of relative peak GRFs in comparison with controls. It was especially seen in 8-10-year-olds: G1 presented 33% higher (p = 0.03) results than C1 and G2. In SEMG analysis, gymnasts showed overall lower NRMS values in comparison with the controls. In the pre-landing phase, the NRMS in the rectus femoris was from 1.6 up to 3.4 times higher for C1 (p = 0.02) than for C2, G2, C3, and G3. Gymnasts across subsequent training stages exhibit different patterns of neuromuscular coordination during landings. The highest GRF observed in the youngest gymnasts may be a potential risk factor of injuries. Therefore, further injury-focused investigation is recommended to monitor landing strategies among gymnasts of different stages with particular emphasis on the beginners.		[Niespodzinski, Bartlomiej] Kazimierz Wielki Univ, Inst Phys Educ, Dept Anat & Biomech, Bydgoszcz, Poland; [Grad, Rafal; Kochanowicz, Andrzej; Mieszkowski, Jan] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, Dept Gymnast & Dance, Gdansk, Poland; [Marina, Michel] INEFC Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain; [Zasada, Mariusz] Kazimierz Wielki Univ, Inst Phys Educ, Dept Sports, Bydgoszcz, Poland; [Kochanowicz, Kazimierz] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, Dept Theory Sport, Gdansk, Poland; [Niespodzinski, Bartlomiej] Kazimierz Wielki Univ, Inst Phys Educ, Dept Anat & Biomech, Bydgoszcz, Poland								11							Sport Sciences	WOS:000681305600002	41	Article; Article		
J	Sha, Zhanxin; Zhou, Zhaoxian; Dai, Boyi								Analyses of Countermovement Jump Performance in Time and Frequency Domains								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				78	1			41	48		10.2478/hukin-2021-0028			MAR 2021	2021	This study aimed to analyze counter-movement jump (CMJ) performance in time and frequency domains. Fortyfour Division I American football players participated in the study. Kinetic variables were collected from both dominant and non-dominant legs using two force plates. Normalized peak power, normalized net impulse, and normalized peak force significantly correlated with jump height (r = .960, r = .998, r = .725, respectively with p < .05). The mean frequency component was significantly correlated with CMJ performance (r = .355 with p < .05). The reliability of the frequency variables was higher than the time domain variables. Frequency domain variables showed weaker correlations with jump height compared with time domain variables. Frequency domain analysis provides frequency components, which represent the rate of energy transmission from the eccentric phase to the end of the push-off phase. Frequency component information may provide additional information for the analyses of CMJ performance for athletes.		[Sha, Zhanxin] Univ Southern Mississippi, Coll Educ & Human Sci, Sch Kinesiol & Nutr, Hattiesburg, MS 39401 USA; [Zhou, Zhaoxian] Univ Southern Mississippi, Coll Art & Sci, Sch Comp, Hattiesburg, MS 39401 USA; [Dai, Boyi] Univ Wyoming, Div Kinesiol & Hlth, Laramie, WY USA; [Sha, Zhanxin] Univ Southern Mississippi, Coll Educ & Human Sci, Sch Kinesiol & Nutr, Hattiesburg, MS 39401 USA								9							Sport Sciences	WOS:000681305600004	51	Article; Article		
J	Picon-Martinez, Moises; Chulvi-Medrano, Ivan; Manuel Cortell-Tormo, Juan; Alonso-Aubin, Diego A.; Alakhdar, Yasser; Laurentino, Gilberto								Acute Effects of Resistance Training with Blood Flow Restriction on Achilles Tendon Thickness								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				78	1			101	109		10.2478/hukin-2021-0032101			MAR 2021	2021	The Achilles tendon is one of the strongest and thickest tendons of the human body. Several studies have reported an immediate decrease in Achilles tendon thickness after a single bout of resistance training. However, the effects of blood flow restriction training on Achilles tendon thickness have not been investigated. The purpose of this study was to investigate the acute effects of different regimens of resistance training on Achilles tendon thickness. Fiftytwo participants (27.3 +/- 7 years; 177.6 +/- 11 cm; 72.2 +/- 13.7 kg) were randomly allocated into one of the three groups: low-intensity exercise without (LI, n = 13) and with blood flow restriction (LI-BFR, n = 24), and high-intensity exercise (HI, n = 15). Participants from LI and LI-BFR groups performed four sets (1 x 30 + 3 x 15 reps) at 30% 1RM, while the HI group performed four sets (1 x 30 with 30% 1RM + 3 x 10 reps with 75% 1RM). All groups performed a plantar flexion exercise. For the LI-BFR group, a blood pressure cuff was placed on the dominant calf and inflated at 30% of the individual ' s occlusion pressure (47.6 +/- 19.8 mmHg). Sonographic images of Achilles tendon thickness were taken at pre, immediately after, 60 min and 24 h following acute bouts of exercise. Achilles tendon thickness was significantly reduced immediately after, 60 min and 24 h post-LI-BFR exercise (pre: 4.4 +/- 0.4 mm vs. IA: 3.8 +/- 0.4 mm vs. 60 min: 3.7 +/- 0.3 mm vs. 24 h: 4.1 +/- 0.3 mm; p 0.001), whereas Achilles tendon thickness was unchanged for HI and LI groups (p 0.05). These results suggest that blood flow restriction training may be an effective strategy to stimulate a positive response in Achilles tendon thickness.		[Picon-Martinez, Moises; Chulvi-Medrano, Ivan; Manuel Cortell-Tormo, Juan; Alonso-Aubin, Diego A.] Univ Alicante, Dept Gen & Specif Didact, Carretera San Vicente Raspeig,S-N, Alicante 03690, Spain; [Alakhdar, Yasser] Univ Valencia, Dept Phys Therapy, Valencia, Spain; [Laurentino, Gilberto] Univ Sao Paulo, Sch Phys Educ & Sport, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Manuel Cortell-Tormo, Juan] Univ Alicante, Dept Gen & Specif Didact, Carretera San Vicente Raspeig,S-N, Alicante 03690, Spain								12							Sport Sciences	WOS:000681305600010	55	Article; Article		
J	Kerivel, Thibault; Bossard, Cyril; Kermarrec, Gilles								Applying the Input-Process-Outcome Model to Team Learning in Sport Sciences: An Exploratory Qualitative Study on Twenty Soccer Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				78	1			251	262		10.2478/hukin-2021-0040			MAR 2021	2021	In sport science literature, referring to the Input-Process-Outcome (IPO) model, few studies demonstrated links between team training and team learning despites several calls for empirical studies. Thus, this study aimed at exploring systemically the building process of the interpersonal coordination by focusing on (1) a specific antecedent (i.e., video feedback during practice), (2) the influence of this antecedent on the team learning process, and (3) outcomes from this process as shared cognitive contents. Thus, this study was original by examining empirically the IPO model in a sport-training context. Our study showed that Input influenced the specific learning Process during practice (five processes) and video feedback sessions (five processes) and produced Outcomes (six typical shared cognitive contents). Finally, results are discussed in relation to team learning processes theoretically identified in the literature and an IPO soccer model adapted to team learning in a soccer context is proposed.		[Kerivel, Thibault] Univ Nantes, Movement Interact Performance Lab, UFR STAPS, 25Bis Blvd Guy Mollet, F-44322 Nantes, France; [Kerivel, Thibault; Bossard, Cyril; Kermarrec, Gilles] Univ West Brittany, Res Ctr Educ Learning & Didact, 20 Ave Victor Le Gorgeu, F-29200 Brest, France; [Kerivel, Thibault] Univ Nantes, Movement Interact Performance Lab, UFR STAPS, 25Bis Blvd Guy Mollet, F-44322 Nantes, France								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:000681305600024	30	Article; Article		
J	Witkowski, Mateusz; Tomczak, Ewa; Bojkowski, Lukasz; Borysiuk, Zbigniew; Tomczak, Maciej								Do Expert Fencers Engage the Same Visual Perception Strategies as Beginners?								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				78	1			49	58		10.2478/hukin-2021-004549			MAR 2021	2021	An effective visual perception strategy helps a fencer quickly react to an opponent's actions. This study aimed to examine and compare visual perception strategies used by high-performance foil fencers (experts) and beginners. In an eye tracking experiment, we analysed to which areas beginning and expert fencers paid attention during duels. Novices paid attention to all examined areas of interest comprising the guard, foil (blade and tip), armed hand, lower torso, and upper torso of their opponents. Experts, however, paid significantly less attention to the foil, picking up information from other areas, mainly the upper torso and the armed hand. These results indicate that expert fencers indeed engage different visual perception strategies than beginners. The present findings highlight the fact that beginner fencers should be taught already in the early stages of their careers how to pick up information from various body areas of their opponents.		[Witkowski, Mateusz] Adam Mickiewicz Univ, Poznan, Poland; [Tomczak, Ewa] Adam Mickiewicz Univ, Fac English, Poznan, Poland; [Bojkowski, Lukasz; Tomczak, Maciej] Poznan Univ Phys Educ, Dept Psychol, Krolowej Jadwigi 27-39, PL-61871 Poznan, Poland; [Borysiuk, Zbigniew] Opole Univ Technol, Opole, Poland; [Bojkowski, Lukasz] Poznan Univ Phys Educ, Dept Psychol, Krolowej Jadwigi 27-39, PL-61871 Poznan, Poland								7							Sport Sciences	WOS:000681305600005	40	Article; Article		
J	Derek, Antonijo; Karnincic, Hrvoje; Franchini, Emerson; Krstulovic, Sasa; Kuvacic, Goran								Different Training Methods Cause Similar Muscle Damage in Youth Judo Athletes								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				78	1			79	87		10.2478/hukin-2021-0030			MAR 2021	2021	It is well known that different factors can contribute to muscle damage in judo matches or training. Previous research analyzed only the effects of simulated judo combat or judo training on biochemical markers of muscle damage without determining its specific causes. Our objective was to identify possible differences in biochemical markers of muscular damage in response to different training methods in youth judo athletes. Twelve high-level male judo athletes were randomly assigned to a standing (SP, n = 6, age = 16.6 +/- 1.1 years) or a groundwork (GP, n = 6, age = 17.8 +/- 0.8 years) position combat practice group. Both groups had the same protocol of four 4-minute combat practice bouts separated by 1-minute rest intervals. Before and immediately after combat practice blood samples were taken to assess muscle damage markers: creatine kinase (CK), lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), aspartate aminotransferase (AST) and alanine aminotransferase (ALT). There were significant increases in AST, LDH, and CK after the standing and groundwork training sessions compared with resting values in both groups. Additionally, no significant differences in the enzyme's activity between SP and GP groups were found. These results showed that standing and groundwork randori training (free sparring or free practice) causes similar muscle damage in adolescent judo athletes. Future research should assess the effects of the same damage mechanisms over a longer period of time		[Derek, Antonijo; Karnincic, Hrvoje; Krstulovic, Sasa; Kuvacic, Goran] Univ Split, Fac Kinesiol, Teslina 6, Split 21000, Croatia; [Franchini, Emerson] Univ Sao Paulo, Sport Dept, Martial Arts & Combat Sports Res Grp, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Kuvacic, Goran] Univ Split, Fac Kinesiol, Teslina 6, Split 21000, Croatia								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:000681305600008	33	Article; Article		
J	Castillo, Daniel; Raya-Gonzalez, Javier; Yanci, Javier; Manuel Clemente, Filipe								Influence of Pitch Size on Short-Term High Intensity Actions and Body Impacts in Soccer Sided Games								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				78	1			187	196		10.2478/hukin-2021-0037			MAR 2021	2021	The aim of this study was to compare external training loads between small-sided games (SSGs) and largesided games (LSGs) in soccer players. Twenty outfield soccer players (14.8 +/- 0.6 years old) who competed in the Spanish U16 Provincial Division and belonged to the same team participated in the study. The soccer sided games were played at different individual interaction space (IIS) per player (i.e., SSG = 100 m(2) and LSG = 200 m(2)) and were disputed in the same format (five-a-side plus goalkeepers) on two different pitch sizes (i.e., 38 x 26 vs. 53 x 37 m) defending an official soccer-goal. The sided games' duration was 4 bouts of 6 min with 2 min rest intervals between bouts. The results of this study showed no meaningful differences in the total distance and intensity of accelerations and decelerations between SSGs and LSGs except for the lower distance covered at medium intensity (2.5 - 4 m.s(-2)) observed during LSGs (-10.2%; ES (effect size): -0.51). Players registered greater sprints, maximum velocity (Vel(max)) and body impacts at different intensities (i.e., I5-6g, I6-6.5g, I6.5-7g, I7-8g, I8-10g,) in LSGs in comparison to SSGs. These findings suggest that an increase in the pitch size (i.e., IIS per player) can induce higher external loads for soccer players.		[Castillo, Daniel; Raya-Gonzalez, Javier] Univ Isabel I, Fac Hlth Sci, Fernan Gonzalez 76, Burgos 09003, Spain; [Yanci, Javier] Univ Basque Country, Fac Educ & Sport, Soc Sports & Phys Exercise Res Grp GIKAFIT, Phys Educ & Sport Dept,UPV EHU, Vitoria, Spain; [Manuel Clemente, Filipe] Inst Politecn Viana Castelo, Escola Super Desporto & Lazer, Rua Escola Ind & Comercial Alvares, Viana Do Castelo, Portugal; [Raya-Gonzalez, Javier] Univ Isabel I, Fac Hlth Sci, Fernan Gonzalez 76, Burgos 09003, Spain								16							Sport Sciences	WOS:000681305600018	40	Article; Article		
J	Filip-Stachnik, Aleksandra; Krzysztofik, Michal; Kaszuba, Magdalena; Leznicka, Katarzyna; Kostrzewa, Maciej; Del Coso, Juan; Wilk, Michal								Effects of Acute Caffeine Intake on Power Output and Movement Velocity During a Multiple-Set Bench Press Exercise Among Mild Caffeine Users								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				78	1			219	228		10.2478/hukin-2021-0044219			MAR 2021	2021	The main goal of this study was to evaluate the effectiveness of an acute dose of caffeine (6 mg/kg body mass (b.m.)) on power output and bar velocity during a bench press multiple-set resistance training session in participants with mild daily caffeine consumption (in the range of 1 to 3 mg/kg/b.m). Thirteen recreationally active male participants (age: 21.9 +/- 1.2 years, body mass: 74.4 +/- 5.3 kg, body mass index: 23.1 +/- 1.6 kg/m(2), bench press onerepetition maximum (1RM): 79.2 +/- 14.9 kg), with daily caffeine ingestion of 1.56 +/- 0.56 mg/kg/b.m., participated in the study with a randomized double-blind experimental design. Each participant performed two identical experimental sessions, 60 min after the intake of a placebo (PLAC) or 6 mg/kg/b.m. of caffeine (CAF-6). In each experimental session, participants performed 5 sets of 5 repetitions of the bench press exercise with a load equivalent to 70% 1RM. The eccentric and concentric phases of the bench press exercise were performed at maximal possible velocity in each repetition. Bar velocity was recorded with a linear position transducer and power output was calculated using velocity and load data. A two-way repeated measures ANOVA indicated no significant substance x set interaction for mean power output (MP), mean bar velocity (MV), peak power output (PP) and peak bar velocity (PV). However, there was a significant main effect of substance on MP (p < 0.01; eta(2) = 0.47) and MV (p < 0.01; eta(2) =0.45). Post hoc analysis for main effect revealed that MP and MV values in the CAF-6 group were higher than in the PLAC group in all 5 sets of the exercise (p < 0.05). In conclusion, this study demonstrated that an acute dose of caffeine before resistance exercise increased mean power output and mean bar velocity during a multiple-set bench press exercise protocol among mild caffeine users.		[Filip-Stachnik, Aleksandra; Krzysztofik, Michal; Kaszuba, Magdalena; Kostrzewa, Maciej; Wilk, Michal] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Inst Sport Sci, Ul Mikolowska 72a, PL-40065 Katowice, Poland; [Leznicka, Katarzyna] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, Fac Phys Educ, Gdansk, Poland; [Del Coso, Juan] Rey Juan Carlos Univ, Ctr Sport Studies, Fuenlabrada, Spain; [Filip-Stachnik, Aleksandra] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Inst Sport Sci, Ul Mikolowska 72a, PL-40065 Katowice, Poland								19							Sport Sciences	WOS:000681305600021	45	Article; Article		
J	Gorgulu, Recep; Gokcek, Eslem								The Effects of Avoiding Instructions Under Pressure: An Examination of the Volleyball Serving Task								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				78	1			239	249		10.2478/hukin-2021-0039239			MAR 2021	2021	Wegner predicts that under pressure self-avoiding instructions not to perform in a certain manner will break down precisely where it is least desired that is the hypothesis of the present study. Specifically, the aim was to test the hypothesis that when instructed not to serve into a certain zone, ironic error would be more prevalent under pressure. Our sample comprised 43 female participants between the age of 13 and 16 (M-age = 14.51, SD = 1.35) who were active volleyball players (M-training years = 5.40, SD = 2.38). We measured the participants' psychophysiological indications of anxiety via the heart rate, heart rate variability as well as the self-reported Mental Readiness Form-3. To measure performance, we counted the number of target and non-target serving zones under different anxiety conditions. Participants scored +5 points for serving into the target zone, scored -5 points for serving to the out or hitting the net and 1 point for serving into the court except the target zone. A 2 (anxiety) x 3 (serving zone) fully repeated measures ANOVA revealed a significant anxiety x serving zone interaction F (2, 84) = 36.52, p <.001. When instructed not to serve in a certain zone, players' overall performance did not change across anxiety conditions t (42) =.68, p =.50. Results did not provide support for the Wegner's theory as expected, but instead revealed evidence for the Woodman et al.'s (2015) differentiation of ironic performance error. The results demonstrate that the theory of ironic processes may account for practical instruction-based solution for reducing the susceptibility to ironic errors in the serving type of task in volleyball.		[Gorgulu, Recep; Gokcek, Eslem] Bursa Uludag Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Elite Performance Sport Res Grp, TR-16059 Bursa, Turkey; [Gokcek, Eslem] Hacettepe Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Ankara, Turkey; [Gorgulu, Recep] Bursa Uludag Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Elite Performance Sport Res Grp, TR-16059 Bursa, Turkey								8							Sport Sciences	WOS:000681305600023	51	Article; Article		
J	Steffl, Michal; Kinkorova, Ivana; Talar, Karolina; Jandova, Tereza; Moulisova, Karolina; Omcirk, Dan; Malecek, Jan; Chrudimsky, Jan; Wilk, Michal; Stastny, Petr; Petr, Miroslav								The Effects of High Mineral Alkaline Water Consumed over Three Consecutive Days on Reaction Time Following Anaerobic Exercise - A Randomized Placebo-Controlled Crossover Pilot Study								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				78	1			111	119		10.2478/hukin-2021-0046111			MAR 2021	2021	Drinking alkaline water after intense anaerobic exercise may enhance both cognitive and physical performance. This study aimed to investigate the effect of high mineral alkaline water consumed over three consecutive days on reaction time after anaerobic exercise in twelve healthy young males (aged 21.1 +/- 1.3 years) with a valid sports medical examination. Participants were excluded when they took any medications or performance-enhancing supplements for the period of at least four weeks before the study commenced. Participants were randomly divided into two groups in this double-blind, placebo-controlled crossover pilot study. They ingested either alkaline water (AW) or regular table water (RTW) for three consecutive days before anaerobic exercise. The anaerobic exercise consisted of two 2-min high-intensity step-tests with a passive rest interval of 3 minutes between the two bouts of exercise. Performance in the step-test (W), reaction time for visual and auditory signals, the rate of perceived exertion (RPE), urine specific gravity, and lactate concentration were analysed. No effect of AW was found on reaction time and the other variables except anaerobic performance. An-aerobic performance was significantly higher after ingestion of AW in both step-tests (p < 0.05). The ingestion of AW for three consecutive days before anaerobic exercise seems to positively affect anaerobic performance.		[Steffl, Michal; Kinkorova, Ivana; Jandova, Tereza; Moulisova, Karolina; Omcirk, Dan; Malecek, Jan; Chrudimsky, Jan; Stastny, Petr; Petr, Miroslav] Charles Univ Prague, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Prague 16252, Czech Republic; [Talar, Karolina] Univ Phys Educ Krakow, Fac Motor Rehabil, PL-31571 Krakow, Poland; [Wilk, Michal; Stastny, Petr; Petr, Miroslav] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, PL-40065 Katowice, Poland; [Stastny, Petr] Charles Univ Prague, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Prague 16252, Czech Republic; [Stastny, Petr] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, PL-40065 Katowice, Poland								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:000681305600011	42	Article; Article		
J	Gomes, Ana Carolina; Tosini, Laura; Oliveira, Dalton; Lage, Guilherme; Franchini, Emerson; Meira Jr, Cassio								Caffeine Produces Neutral Effects on Extraverts' and Introverts' Performance of Fundamental Motor Skills								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				78	1			229	237		10.2478/hukin-2021-0038229			MAR 2021	2021	Extraverts are active and talkative, while introverts are quiet and calm. This difference has been attributed to the cortical activation level (arousal), which is low in extraverts and high in introverts. Thus, to reach an optimal level of arousal, extraverts seek stimulation and introverts avoid it. As caffeine increases arousal levels, our primary aim was to investigate the effect of caffeine on the performance of extraverted and introverted university students in the execution of stability, manipulative, and locomotor tasks. Considering the above, we evaluated side effects, such as restlessness and trembling of hands, we also analyzed the individual's perception regarding caffeine intake and the placebo. Forty two volunteers were classified as 21 extraverts and 21 introverts by the Eysenck Personality Questionnaire. Participants performed three tasks on two different days, having previously ingested caffeine and a placebo in counterbalanced order. A double-blind technique was employed. The dependent variable was the execution time to perform the tasks. The analyses of variance [2 (extraversion/introversion) x 2 (caffeine x placebo)] for each task did not show significant differences. Regarding the secondary aim, the chi-square test showed that introverts had a better perception of the substance they had ingested than did extraverts. Our findings indicate that in the execution of stability, manipulative, and locomotor tasks, either caffeine or the placebo produced the same effect, regardless of the participants' extraversion score. In addition, introverts were more sensitive to perceive which substance was ingested, caffeine or the placebo, than extraverts.		[Gomes, Ana Carolina; Tosini, Laura; Oliveira, Dalton; Meira Jr, Cassio] Univ Sao Paulo, Sch Arts Sci & Humanities, 141 Nossa Senhora de Lourdes, Guarulhos, SP, Brazil; [Lage, Guilherme] Univ Fed Minas Gerais, Sch Phys Educ Physiotherapy & Occupat Therapy, Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil; [Franchini, Emerson] Univ Sao Paulo, Sch Phys Educ & Sport, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Gomes, Ana Carolina] Univ Sao Paulo, Sch Arts Sci & Humanities, 141 Nossa Senhora de Lourdes, Guarulhos, SP, Brazil								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:000681305600022	30	Article; Article		
J	Toro-Roman, Victor; Munoz, Diego; Siquier-Coll, Jesus; Bartolome, Ignacio; Concepcion Robles, Maria; Maynar-Marino, Marcos								Influence of a Maximal Incremental Test Until Exhaustion on the Urinary Excretion of Steroid Hormones in Trained Cyclists								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				78	1			121	129		10.2478/hukin-2021-0033			MAR 2021	2021	This study aimed to assess the effect of a maximum incremental stress test through urinary concentrations of steroid hormones in trained cyclists. Twenty male cyclists participated in the study (23.83 +/- 2.3 years; 1.76 +/- 0.03 m; 66.94 +/- 3.59 kg; training volume: 20.50 +/- 2.35 h/week). Athletes performed a maximum incremental test until exhaustion on a cycle ergometer and urine samples were collected at three different time points: before, immediately after, and 48 h after the test. Lactate, creatinine and urinary concentrations of testicular and adrenal androgens were obtained as well as urinary concentrations of glucocorticoid hormones. An increase in lactate was observed after the test (p < 0.01). There were decreases in the urinary excretion of androgenic hormones after the test, which were significant in testosterone, androsterone, androstenedione, total adrenal androgen and total testicular androgen (p < 0.05). The values were restored after 48 h (p < 0.05). Urinary cortisol concentrations decreased after the test (p < 0.05). A decrease was also observed in the ratio of anabolic/catabolic hormones (p < 0.05) increasing 48 h after the test (p < 0.05). Increased acute physical exercise until exhaustion causes variations in the urinary excretions of steroid hormones which were restored 48 h after exercise. Urinary excretion of steroid hormones could be a valid method of monitoring training loads.		[Toro-Roman, Victor; Siquier-Coll, Jesus; Bartolome, Ignacio; Maynar-Marino, Marcos] Univ Extremadura, Sch Sport Sci, Dept Physiol, Badajoz, Spain; [Munoz, Diego; Concepcion Robles, Maria] Univ Extremadura, Sch Teacher Training, Dept Didact Mus Plast & Corporal Express, Badajoz, Spain; [Munoz, Diego] Univ Extremadura, Sch Teacher Training, Dept Didact Mus Plast & Corporal Express, Badajoz, Spain								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:000681305600012	30	Article; Article		
J	Gjestvang, Christina; Stensrud, Trine; Paulsen, Goran; Haakstad, Lene A. H.								Stay True to Your Workout: Does Repeated Physical Testing Boost Exercise Attendance? A One-Year Follow-Up Study								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				20	1			35	44					MAR 2021	2021	No prospective studies have investigated if repeated testing of physical performance and body composition are associated with exercise attendance or patterns in fitness club members. This study aimed to investigate if repeated physical testing was associated with exercise attendance and patterns in gym members and to report prospective data on use of the fitness club's facilities and products. Untrained new members were recruited and divided into a test group (n = 125) and as controls (n = 125). All participants answered a survey including exercise involvement, at onset, and after 3, 6, and 12 months follow-up. The test group also measured body composition, maximal oxygen uptake, and maximal muscle strength (onset, and after 3 and 12 months). In total 73.6% answered all surveys, and in the test group, 44.8% completed all physical tests. Regular exercise attendance was defined as >= 2 sessions/week. Repeated testing showed no association with long-term regular exercise attendance (test group: 19.6%, controls: 19.8%; p = 0.638). At 3 months, a lower proportion in the test group reported engagement in resistance exercise (35.3% and 60.2%; p = 0.003) and had lower exercise frequency (2.0 and 2.6 days/week; p = 0.008) than controls. The test group had higher participation in group exercise classes (28.0% and 13.6%; p = 0.040). Exercise frequency decreased from onset to 12 months (from 2.6 to 2.2 days/week; p = 0.025) At 3, 6, and 12 months, 51.8%, 37.6%, and 37.4% reported regular exercise attendance, and 16.9% at all follow-ups. At all time-points, most common workout mode was individual resistance exercise (43.8% to 46.3%). Few attended group exercise classes (7.5% to 13.8%) or used a personal trainer (22.5% to 27.5%). Repeated physical testing did not improve exercise attendance, and we found no changes in members' use of the fitness club's facilities and products. Only 16.9% reported regular exercise attendance throughout the first year of membership.		[Gjestvang, Christina; Stensrud, Trine; Haakstad, Lene A. H.] Norwegian Sch Sports Sci, Dept Sports Med, Oslo, Norway; [Paulsen, Goran] Norwegian Sch Sports Sci, Dept Phys Performance, Oslo, Norway; [Gjestvang, Christina] Norwegian Sch Sport Sci, Ulleval Stad, Sch Sport Sci, POB 4014, N-0806 Oslo, Norway								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:000613352600005	53	Article; Article		
J	Stien, Nicolay; Saeterbakken, Atle Hole; Andersen, Vidar								Electromyographic Comparison of Five Lower-Limb Muscles between Single-and Multi-Joint Exercises among Trained Men								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				20	1			56	61					MAR 2021	2021	Resistance-training exercises can be classified as either single- or multi joint exercises and differences in surface electromyography (EMG) amplitude between the two training methods may identify which muscles can benefit from either training modality. This study aimed to compare the surface EMG amplitude of five hipand knee extensors during one multi-joint (leg press) and two single-joint exercises (knee extension and kickback). Fifteen resistance-trained men completed one familiarization session to determine their unilateral six repetitions maximum (6RM) in the three exercises. During the following experimental session, EMG amplitudes of the vastus lateralis, vastus medialis, rectus femoris, gluteus maximus and biceps femoris of the left leg were measured while performing three repetitions on their respective 6RM loads. The multi joint exercise leg press produced higher EMG amplitude of the vastus lateralis (ES = 0.92, p = 0.003) than the single-joint exercise knee extension, whereas the rectus femoris demonstrated higher EMG amplitude during the knee extension (ES = 0.93, p = 0.005). The biceps femoris EMG amplitude was higher during the single-joint exercise kickback compared to the leg press (ES = 2.27, p < 0.001), while no significant differences in gluteus maximus (ES = 0.08, p = 0.898) or vastus medialis (ES = 0.056, p = 0.025 were observed between exercises. The difference in EMG amplitude between single- and multi joint exercises appears to vary depending on the specific exercises and the muscle groups tested. Leg press is a viable and time-efficient option for targeting several hip- and knee extensors during resistance training of the lower limbs, but the single-joint exercises may be preferable for targeting the rectus femoris and biceps femoris.		[Stien, Nicolay; Saeterbakken, Atle Hole; Andersen, Vidar] Western Norway Univ Appl Sci, Fac Educ Arts & Sports, Bergen, Norway; [Stien, Nicolay] Western Norway Univ Appl Sci, Fac Educ Arts & Sports, Bergen, Norway								14							Sport Sciences	WOS:000613352600008	41	Article; Article		
J	Nakamura, Masatoshi; Onuma, Remi; Kiyono, Ryosuke; Yasaka, Koki; Sato, Shigeru; Yahata, Kaoru; Fukaya, Taizan; Konrad, Andreas								The Acute and Prolonged Effects of Different Durations of Foam Rolling on Range of Motion, Muscle Stiffness, and Muscle Strength								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				20	1			62	68					MAR 2021	2021	"Foam Rolling" has been used in sports settings to increase range of motion and decrease muscle stiffness without decreasing muscle strength and athletic performance. However, there has been no study investigating the acute and prolonged effect of different durations of foam rolling intervention on muscle stiffness, and the minimum foam rolling intervention duration required to decrease muscle stiffness is unclear. Therefore, the purpose of this study was to investigate the acute and prolonged effect of different durations of foam rolling intervention on ROM, muscle stiffness, and muscle strength. The 45 participants were randomly allocated to 1 of 3 groups (30 s x 1 times group vs 30 s x 3 times group vs 30 s x 10 times group). The outcome measures were dorsiflexion range of motion, shear elastic modulus of medial gastrocnemius, and muscle strength before, 2 min and 30 min after foam rolling intervention. There were no significant differences before and 2 min after foam rolling intervention in 30 s x 1 time group, whereas dorsiflexion range of motion was increased in both 30 s x 3 times group (p = 0.042, d = 0.26) and 30 s x 10 times group (p < 0.01, d = 0.33). However, the increase in dorsiflexion range of motion was returned to baseline value after 30 minutes in both 30 s x 3 times group and 30 s x 10 times group. In addition, there were no significant changes in shear elastic modulus and muscle strength in all groups. This study suggested that foam rolling for more than 90 s or more of foam rolling was effective in order to increase the range of motion immediately without changing muscle stiffness and muscle strength.		[Nakamura, Masatoshi; Kiyono, Ryosuke; Sato, Shigeru; Yahata, Kaoru; Fukaya, Taizan] Niigata Univ Hlth & Welf, Inst Human Movement & Med Sci, Niigata, Japan; [Nakamura, Masatoshi; Onuma, Remi; Yasaka, Koki] Niigata Univ Hlth & Welf, Dept Phys Therapy, Niigata, Japan; [Fukaya, Taizan] Kyoto Kujo Hosp, Dept Rehabil, Minami Ku, 10 Karahashirajoumoncho, Kyoto 6018453, Japan; [Konrad, Andreas] Karl Franzens Univ Graz, Inst Human Movement Sci Sport & Hlth, Mozartgasse 14, A-8010 Graz, Austria; [Konrad, Andreas] Karl Franzens Univ Graz, Inst Human Movement Sci Sport & Hlth, Mozartgasse 14, A-8010 Graz, Austria								75							Sport Sciences	WOS:000613352600009	37	Article; Article		
J	Filipovic, Michelle; Munten, Stephanie; Herzig, Karl-Heinz; Gagnon, Dominique D.								Maximal Fat Oxidation: Comparison between Treadmill, Elliptical and Rowing Exercises								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				20	1			170	178					MAR 2021	2021	Fat oxidation during exercise is associated with cardio-metabolic benefits, but the extent of which whole-body exercise modality elicits the greatest fat oxidation remains unclear. We investigated the effects of treadmill, elliptical and rowing exercise on fat oxidation in healthy individuals. Nine healthy males participated in three, peak oxygen consumption tests, on a treadmill, elliptical and rowing ergometer. Indirect calorimetry was used to assess maximal oxygen consumption ((V) over dotO(2)peak), maximal fat oxidation (MFO) rates, and the exercise intensity MFO occurred (Fat(max)). Mixed venous blood was collected to assess lactate and blood gases concentrations. While (V) over dotO(2)peak was similar between exercise modalities, MFO rates were higher on the treadmill (mean +/- SD; 0.61 +/- 0.06 g.min(-1)) compared to both the elliptical (0.41 +/- 0.08 g.min(-1), p = 0.022) and the rower (0.40 +/- 0.08 g.min(-1), p = 0.017). Fat(max) values were also significantly higher on the treadmill (56.0 +/- 6.2 %(V) over dotO(2)peak) compared to both the elliptical (36.8 +/- 5.4 %(V) over dotO(2)peak, p = 0.049) and rower (31.6 +/- 5.0 %(V) over dotO(2)peak, p = 0.021). Post-exercise blood lactate concentrations were also significantly lower following treadmill exercise (p = 0.021). Exercising on a treadmill maximizes fat oxidation to a greater extent than elliptical and rowing exercises, and remains an important exercise modality to improve fat oxidation, and consequently, cardio-metabolic health.		[Filipovic, Michelle; Munten, Stephanie; Gagnon, Dominique D.] Laurentian Univ, Sch Kinesiol & Hlth Sci, Lab Environm Exercise Physiol, Sudbury, ON, Canada; [Filipovic, Michelle] Northern Ontario Sch Med, Sudbury, ON, Canada; [Munten, Stephanie; Gagnon, Dominique D.] Laurentian Univ, Ctr Res Occupat Hlth & Safety, Sudbury, ON, Canada; [Herzig, Karl-Heinz] Univ Oulu, Oulu Univ Hosp, Fac Med, Inst Biomed,Med Res Ctr, Oulu, Finland; [Herzig, Karl-Heinz] Poznan Univ, Dept Gastroenterol & Metab, Poznan, Poland; [Gagnon, Dominique D.] Sch Kinesiol & Hlth Sci, 935 Ramsey Lake Rd,Ben Avery Bldg, Sudbury, ON P3E 2C6, Canada								13							Sport Sciences	WOS:000613352600021	51	Article; Article		
J	Mazalan, Nur Shakila; Landers, Grant Justin; Wallman, Karen Elizabeth; Ecker, Ullrich								Head Cooling Prior to Exercise in the Heat Does Not Improve Cognitive Performance								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				20	1			69	76					MAR 2021	2021	This study investigated the effectiveness of head cooling on cognitive performance after 30 min and 60 min of running in the heat. Ten moderately-trained, non-heat-acclimated, male endurance athletes (mean age: 22 +/- 6.6 y; height: 1.78 +/- 0.10 m; body-mass: 75.7 +/- 15.6 kg; <(V)over dot>O-2peak: 51.6 +/- 4.31 mL(-1).kg(-1).min) volunteered for this study. Participants performed two experimental trials: head cooling versus no-cooling (within-subjects factor with trial order randomized). For each trial, participants wore a head-cooling cap for 15 min with the cap either cooled to 0 degrees C (HC) or not cooled (22 degrees C; CON). Participants then completed 2 x 30 min running efforts on a treadmill at 70% <(V)over dot>O-2peak in hot conditions (35 degrees C, 70% relative humidity), with a 10 min rest between efforts. Working memory was assessed using an operation span (OSPAN) task immediately prior to the 15 min cooling/no-cooling period (22 degrees C, 35% RH) and again after 30 min and 60 min of running in the heat. Numerous physiological variables, including gastrointestinal core temperature (T-c) were assessed over the protocol. Scores for OSPAN were similar between trials, with no interaction effect or main effects for time and trial found (p = 0.58, p = 0.67, p = 0.54, respectively). Forehead temperature following precooling was lower in HC (32.4 +/- 1.6 degrees C) compared with CON (34.5 +/- 1.1 degrees C) (p = 0.01), however, no differences were seen in Te, skin temperature, heart rate and ratings of perceived exertion between HC and CON trials at any time point assessed (p > 0.05). In conclusion, despite HC reducing forehead temperature prior to exercise, it did not significantly improve cognitive performance during (half-time break) or after subsequent exercise in hot environmental conditions, compared to a no cooling control.		[Mazalan, Nur Shakila; Landers, Grant Justin; Wallman, Karen Elizabeth] Univ Western Australia, Sch Human Sci Exercise & Sports Sci, Crawley, WA, Australia; [Ecker, Ullrich] Univ Western Australia, Sch Psychol Sci, Crawley, WA, Australia; [Mazalan, Nur Shakila] Natl Univ Malaysia, Fac Educ, Bangi, Selangor, Malaysia; [Mazalan, Nur Shakila] Univ Western Australia, Sch Human Sci Exercise & Sports Sci, Crawley, WA, Australia								7							Sport Sciences	WOS:000613352600010	33	Article; Article		
J	Schulze, Erniel; Julian, Ross; Skorski, Sabrina								The Accuracy of a Low-Cost GPS System during Football-Specific Movements								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				20	1			126	132					MAR 2021	2021	An affordable player monitoring solution could make the evaluation of external loading more accessible across multiple levels of football (soccer). The present study aimed to determine the accuracy of a newly designed and low-cost Global Positioning System (GPS) whilst performing match-specific movement patterns. Sixteen professional male football players (24 +/- 3 years) were assigned a GPS device (TT01, Tracktics GmbH, Hotheim, Germany) and completed two experimental trials. In each trial, a continuous protocol including seven movements (sideways cornering, diagonal cornering, accelerating, decelerating, backwards jogging, shuttle miming, and skipping) adding up to 500 m, was completed. Time-motion data was compared with criterion distance and velocity (photo-cell timing gates and radar). Validity was assessed through the standard error of the estimate (SEE) and reliability through the coefficient of variation (CV; both with 95% confidence limits). For the total distance covered during the protocol, the system was found to be valid (SEE = 3.1% [2.2; 5.8]) and reliable (intra-device CV = 2.0% [1.2; 7.6]). Similar results were found for velocity (SEE = 3.4% [2.6; 4.8], CV = 4.7% [3.2; 8.5]). In conclusion, the present GPS system, a low-cost solution, was found to be a valid and reliable tool for measuring physical loading during football-specific movements.		[Schulze, Erniel; Julian, Ross; Skorski, Sabrina] Saarland Univ, Inst Sports & Prevent Med, Campus B8-2, D-66123 Saarbrucken, Germany; [Julian, Ross] Univ Munster, Inst Neuromotor Behav & Exercise, Munster, Germany; [Julian, Ross] Univ Gloucestershire, Exercise & Sport Res Ctr, Sch Sport & Exercise, Cheltenham, Glos, England; [Schulze, Erniel] Saarland Univ, Inst Sports & Prevent Med, Campus B8-2, D-66123 Saarbrucken, Germany								8							Sport Sciences	WOS:000613352600016	30	Article; Article		
J	Umehara, Jun; Nakamura, Masatoshi; Saeki, Junya; Tanaka, Hiroki; Yanase, Ko; Fujita, Kosuke; Yamagata, Momoko; Ichihashi, Noriaki								Acute and Prolonged Effects of Stretching on Shear Modulus of the Pectoralis Minor Muscle								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				20	1			17	25					MAR 2021	2021	Increased muscle stiffness of the pectoralis minor (PMi) could deteriorate shoulder function. Stretching is useful for maintaining and improving muscle stiffness in rehabilitation and sport practice. However, the acute and prolonged effect of stretching on the PMi muscle stiffness is unclear due to limited methodology for assessing individual muscle stiffness. Using shear wave elastography, we explored the responses of shear modulus to stretching in the PMi over time. The first experiment (n = 20) aimed to clarify the acute change in the shear modulus during stretching. The shear modulus was measured at intervals of 30 s x 10 sets. The second experiment (n = 16) aimed to observe and compare the prolonged effect of different durations of stretching on the shear modulus. Short and long stretching duration groups underwent 30s x 1 set and 30s x 10 sets, respectively. The assessments of shear modulus were conducted before, immediately after, and at 5, 10, and 15 min post-stretching. In experiment I, the shear modulus decreased immediately after a bout (30 s) of stretching (p < 0.001, change: -2.3 kPa, effect size: r = 0.72) and further decreased after 3 repetitions (i.e., 90 s) of stretching (p = 0.03, change: -1.0 kPa, effect size: r = 0.53). In experiment II, the change in the shear modulus after stretching was greater in the long duration group than in the short duration group (p = 0.013, group mean difference: -2.5 kPa, partial eta(2) = 0.36). The shear modulus of PMi decreased immediately after stretching, and stretching for a long duration was promising to maintain the decreased shear modulus. The acute and prolonged effects on the PMi shear modulus provide information relevant to minimum and persistent stretching time in rehabilitation and sport practice.		[Umehara, Jun; Saeki, Junya; Tanaka, Hiroki; Yanase, Ko; Yamagata, Momoko; Ichihashi, Noriaki] Kyoto Univ, Grad Sch Med, Human Hlth Sci, Sakyo Ku, Kyoto, Japan; [Umehara, Jun; Saeki, Junya; Yamagata, Momoko] Japan Soc Promot Sci, Tokyo, Japan; [Umehara, Jun] Natl Inst Informat & Commun Technol, Ctr Informat & Neural Networks, Osaka, Japan; [Nakamura, Masatoshi] Niigata Univ Hlth & Welf, Inst Human Movement & Med Sci, Niigata, Japan; [Saeki, Junya] Waseda Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Saitama, Japan; [Tanaka, Hiroki] Kyoto Univ Hosp, Rehabil Unit, Kyoto, Japan; [Fujita, Kosuke] Nagoya Univ, Grad Sch Med, Dept Community Healthcare & Geriatr, Nagoya, Aichi, Japan; [Yamagata, Momoko] Kobe Univ, Grad Sch Human Dev & Environm, Kobe, Hyogo, Japan; [Umehara, Jun] Kyoto Univ, Grad Sch Med, Dept Phys Therapy, Human Hlth Sci,Sakyo Ku, 53 Kawahara Cho, Kyoto 6068507, Japan								17							Sport Sciences	WOS:000613352600003	49	Article; Article		
J	James, Carl; Dhawan, Aishwar; Jones, Timothy; Pok, Christopher; Yeo, Vincent; Girard, Olivier								Minimal Agreement between Internal and External Training Load Metrics across a 2-wk Training Microcycle in Elite Squash								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				20	1			101	109					MAR 2021	2021	This study investigated the relationships between internal and external training load metrics across a 2-week 'in-season' microcycle in squash. 134 on-court and 32 off-court 'conditioning' sessions were completed by fifteen elite squash players with an average (+/- SD) of 11 +/- 3 per player. During every session, external load was captured using a tri-axial accelerometer to calculate Playerload; i.e., the instantaneous rate of change of acceleration across 3-dimensional planes. Internal load was measured using heart rate (HR), global (sRPE) and differential RPE (dRPE-Legs, dRPE-Breathing). Additionally, HR was used to calculate Banister's, Edward's and TEAM TRIMPs. Across 166 training sessions, Playerload was moderately correlated with TRIMPBanister (r = 0.43 [95% CI: 0.29-0.55], p < 0.001) and TRIMPEdwards (r = 0.50 [0.37-0.61], p < 0.001). Association ofPlayerload with TRIMP-TEAM (r = 0.24 [0.09-0.38], p = 0.001) was small. There was a moderate correlation between sRPE and Playerload (r = 0.46 [0.33-0.57], p < 0.001). Association of sRPE was large with TRIMP-Banister (r = 0.68 [0.59-0.76], p = 0.001), very large with TRIMP-Edwards (r = 0.79 [0.72-0.84], p < 0.001) and moderate with TRIMP-TEAM (r = 0.44 [0.31-0.56], p < 0.001). Both dRPE-Legs (r = 0.95 [0.93-0.96], p < 0.001) and dRPE-Breathing (r = 0.92 [0.89-0.94], p < 0.001) demonstrated nearly perfect correlations with sRPE and with each other (r = 0.91 [0.88-0.93], p < 0.001). Collection of both internal and external training load data is recommended to fully appreciate the physical demands of squash training. During a training microcycle containing a variety of training sessions, interpreting internal or external metrics in isolation may underestimate or overestimate the training stress a player is experiencing.		[James, Carl; Jones, Timothy; Pok, Christopher] Inst Sukan Negara, Kuala Lumpur 57000, Malaysia; [Dhawan, Aishwar] EDGE10 Grp Ltd, 10 D Printing House Yard,Hackney Rd, London, England; [Yeo, Vincent] Republ Polytech, Sch Sports Hlth & Leisure, Singapore, Singapore; [Girard, Olivier] Univ Western Australia, Sch Human Sci Exercise & Sport Sci, Crawley, WA, Australia; [James, Carl] Inst Sukan Negara, Kuala Lumpur 57000, Malaysia								17							Sport Sciences	WOS:000613352600014	42	Article; Article		
J	Watkins, Ross; Young, Georgina; Western, Max; Stokes, Keith; McKay, Carly								"I think we need to empower people to manage it better themselves" : A qualitative interview study exploring UK healthcare practitioners ' perspectives on treating young adults following a sport-related knee injury								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				48				121	127		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.12.022			MAR 2021	2021	Objectives: To elicit healthcare practitioners' views on treatment following sport-related knee injury in young adults (18-35) and the potential for individuals to self-manage joint health. Design: Semi-structured interviews were audio-recorded, transcribed and analysed systematically using an inductive approach. Setting: South West UK. Participants: Twelve healthcare practitioners with experience of treating young adults. Main outcome measures: Understanding how healthcare practitioners treat young adults following knee injury and to what extent individuals may be able to self-manage knee health. Results: Participants' perceptions were encapsulated in three consistent themes: [1] Treating patients; [2] Maintaining physical activity; and [3] Education and support. All participants described how staying physically active and maintaining a healthy weight were integral to conserving knee health, and that post-injury education was necessary to "empower" patients to self-manage knee health. A need for greater access to support, advice and guidance for patients was also articulated. Conclusions: Healthcare practitioners should tailor their treatment to young adults to account for individual characteristics, aspirations for sport and exercise participation, and their emotional wellbeing. Fulfilment of individuals' educational and supportive needs is key to the establishment of self management behaviours that may help to conserve knee health. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Watkins, Ross; Western, Max; Stokes, Keith; McKay, Carly] Univ Bath, Dept Hlth, Bath BA2 7AY, Avon, England; [Watkins, Ross; Young, Georgina; Stokes, Keith; McKay, Carly] Ctr Sport Exercise & Osteoarthrit Res Versus Arth, Nottingham, England; [Watkins, Ross; Western, Max; McKay, Carly] Univ Bath, Ctr Motivat & Hlth Behav Change, Bath BA2 7AY, Avon, England; [Watkins, Ross] Univ Bath, Dept Hlth, Bath BA2 7AY, Avon, England								1							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000618034700016	32	Article; Article		
J	Triplett, Ashley N.; Kuenze, Christopher M.								Characterizing body composition, cardiorespiratory fitness, and physical activity in women with anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				48				54	59		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.12.014			MAR 2021	2021	Objectives: The purpose was to compare body composition, cardiorespiratory fitness, and physical activity (PA) engagement between women with ACLR and healthy controls. Design: Cross-sectional study. Setting: University laboratory. Participants: Ten women with ACLR (time since surgery = 33.0 +/- 18.3 months; age = 21.4 +/- 3.8 years) and 10 healthy women (age = 21.9 +/- 3.1 years) matched based on age (+/- 2 years) and Tegner Activity Level (+/- 2) participated. Main outcome measures: Body fat percentage (%BF) was estimated using air displacement plethysmography, cardiorespiratory fitness was assessed via a graded cycle test, and PA was assessed using accelerometers worn for 7 days. Groups were compared using Mann-Whitney U tests. Time (minutes/week) spent in moderate-to-vigorous PA and step count (steps/day) were compared between groups using a one-way ANCOVA with 7-day total wear time as the only covariate. Statistical significance was established a priori as alpha <= 0.05. Results: Women with ACLR had significantly higher %BF than controls (ACLR = 32.7 +/- 6.7%, healthy = 22.6 +/- 4.9%; p < 0.01) and participated in less steps per day (ACLR = 6650 +/- 3227 steps/day, healthy = 9361 +/- 2626 steps/day; p = 0.02). Conclusions: There may be persistent negative effects on body composition and PA engagement for women following ACLR. Low PA and high %BF have adverse consequences for premature mortality and morbidity; therefore, it is crucial to assess these characteristics and determine interventions to maintain PA and healthy body composition following ACLR. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.YY		[Triplett, Ashley N.; Kuenze, Christopher M.] Michigan State Univ, Dept Kinesiol, E Lansing, MI 48824 USA; [Kuenze, Christopher M.] Michigan State Univ, Dept Orthopaed, E Lansing, MI 48824 USA; [Triplett, Ashley N.] 308 W Circle Dr, E Lansing, MI 48824 USA								19							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000618034700007	37	Article; Article		
J	Brown, Daniel A.; Grant, Gary; Evans, Kerrie; Leung, Felix T.; Hides, Julie A.								The association of concussion history and symptom presentation in combat sport athletes								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				48				101	108		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.12.019			MAR 2021	2021	Objective: The purpose of this study was to describe the concussion-related symptoms reported among combat sport athletes with and without a history of concussion, and a history of neck injury. Design: Cross-sectional survey. Setting: Data were collected using an online survey instrument. Participants: Three hundred and nine adult combat sport athletes. Main outcome measures: Self-reported 12-month concussion history and neck injury history and a 22 item symptom checklist. Results: A history of concussion was reported by 19.1% of athletes, a history of neck injury was reported by 23.0%, and 13.6% reported both injuries. Neck pain was the most frequently reported symptom. Athletes with a history of injury had significantly greater proportions of 'high' total symptoms and symptom severity scores compared with athletes with no history of injury. Athletes with a history of concussion had 2.35 times higher odds of reporting 'high' total symptoms and symptoms severity scores. Conclusion: Athletes with a history of concussion or neck injury have greater odds of presenting with higher symptom scores. The presence of high total symptom scores and high symptom severity scores may indicate a need for further investigation into domains commonly associated with concussion. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Brown, Daniel A.; Leung, Felix T.; Hides, Julie A.] Griffith Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Sci, Bldg N55 170 Kessels Rd, Brisbane, Qld 4111, Australia; [Grant, Gary] Griffith Univ, Sch Pharm & Pharmacol, 1 Parklands Dr, Southport, Qld 4215, Australia; [Evans, Kerrie] Univ Sydney, Fac Med & Hlth, 75 East St, Lidcombe, NSW 2141, Australia; [Evans, Kerrie] Healthia Ltd, 25 Montpelier Rd, Bowen Hills, Qld 4006, Australia; [Brown, Daniel A.] Griffith Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Sci, Bldg N55 170 Kessels Rd, Brisbane, Qld 4111, Australia								11							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000618034700013	50	Article; Article		
J	Hietamo, J.; Pasanen, K.; Leppanen, M.; Steffen, K.; Kannus, P.; Heinonen, A.; Vm, Mattila; Parkkari, J.								Association between lower extremity muscle strength and acute ankle injury in youth team-sports athletes								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				48				188	195		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.01.007			MAR 2021	2021	Objectives: To investigate lower extremity muscle strength as risk factor for an acute ankle injury in youth athletes. Design: Cohort study. Setting: Basketball and floorball clubs. Participants: 188 youth (<= 21) male and 174 female athletes. Main outcome measures: 1RM leg press, maximal concentric isokinetic quadriceps and hamstrings as well as maximal isometric hip abductor strength were measured and athletes were followed for an acute ankle injury up to three years. Cox regression models were used in statistical analyses. Results: In males, greater 1RM leg press and maximal quadriceps strength increased the risk of any type of acute ankle injury (Hazard ratio [HR] for 1 SD increase, 1.63 [95% CI, 1.12-2.39] and 1.43 [95% CI, 1.01-2.01], respectively). In females, greater 1RM leg press and difference between legs in hip abduction strength increased the risk of acute non-contact ankle injury (HR for 1 SD increase, 1.44 [95% CI, 1.03-2.02] and 1.44 [95% CI, 1.03-2.0 0], respectively). However, ROC curve analyses showed AUC:s of 0.57 0.64 indicating "fail" to "poor" combined sensitivity and specifity of these tests. Conclusion: Greater strength in both sexes along with asymmetry in hip abductor strength in females increased the risk of acute ankle injury. (C) 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Hietamo, J.; Pasanen, K.; Leppanen, M.; Kannus, P.; Parkkari, J.] Tampere Res Ctr Sport Med, UKK Inst Hlth Promot Res, Tampere, Finland; [Hietamo, J.] KHKS, Hameenlinna, Finland; [Steffen, K.] Norwegian Sch Sport Sci, Oslo Sports Trauma Res Ctr, Dept Sports Med, Oslo, Norway; [Heinonen, A.] Univ Jyvaskyla, Jyvaskyla, Finland; [Kannus, P.; Vm, Mattila; Parkkari, J.] Tampere Univ Hosp, Dept Orthoped & Traumatol, Tampere, Finland; [Kannus, P.; Vm, Mattila; Parkkari, J.] Univ Tampere, Fac Med & Hlth Technol, Tampere, Finland; [Pasanen, K.] Univ Calgary, Fac Kinesiol, Sport Injury Prevent Res Ctr, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Pasanen, K.] Univ Calgary, Alberta Childrens Hosp Res Inst, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Pasanen, K.] Univ Calgary, Cumming Sch Med, McCaig Inst Bone & Joint Hlth, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Hietamo, J.] Tampere Res Ctr Sport Med, UKK Inst Hlth Promot Res, Tampere, Finland								12							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000618034700023	53	Article; Article		
J	Tomsovsky, Lubos; Reid, Duncan; Whatman, Chris; Borotkanics, Robert; Fulcher, Mark								The effect of a neuromuscular warm-up on the injury rates in New Zealand amateur futsal players								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				48				128	135		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.12.015			MAR 2021	2021	Objectives: To investigate the effectiveness of a futsal-specific warm-up to reduce injuries in amateur teams. Design: Quasi-experimental. Setting: Two futsal centres followed over one season using a specific report card. Participants: 878 teams (Intervention group, n = 458; Control group, n = 420) of both genders and three age groups (U13, U17, adults). Intervention: A futsal-specific warm-up consisting of cardiovascular exercises, dynamic stretches, and game-related skills. Main outcome measures: The incidence rate and severity of all injuries, lower extremity (LE) injuries and contact injuries. A multivariate Poisson regression analysis was used to compare between-group rates. Results: The rate of all injuries was lower in the intervention group (rate ratio (RR) = 0.72, 95% CI = 0.59 to 1.06), yet not significant. There was a significantly lower rate of contact injuries in the intervention group (RR = 0.68, 95% CI = 0.51 to 0.98). Subgroup analysis, based on the warm-up adherence of intervention teams (low, intermediate, high), showed a lower rate of all injuries (RR = 0.52, 95% CI = 0.29 to 0.97), and LE injuries (RR = 0.32, 95% CI = 0.14 to 0.81) in the high compared to low adherence group. Conclusion: A futsal-specific warm-up can reduce the rate of contact injuries in amateur players. With high adherence the rate of all injuries and LE injuries may also reduce. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Tomsovsky, Lubos; Whatman, Chris; Borotkanics, Robert] Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand, Auckland, New Zealand; [Tomsovsky, Lubos; Whatman, Chris; Borotkanics, Robert] Auckland Univ Technol AUT, Sch Sport & Recreat, Auckland, New Zealand; [Reid, Duncan] Auckland Univ Technol AUT, Sch Clin Sci, Auckland, New Zealand; [Fulcher, Mark] Axis Sports Med Specialists, Auckland, New Zealand; [Fulcher, Mark] New Zealand Football, Auckland, New Zealand; [Tomsovsky, Lubos] Auckland Univ Technol, Fac Hlth & Environm Sci, AUT Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand, Auckland 92006, New Zealand								5							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000618034700017	45	Article; Article		
J	Nunez Lisboa, M.; Penailillo, L. E.; Cancino, J.; Zbinden-Foncea, H.; Dewolf, A. H.								Influence of sports background on the bouncing mechanism of running								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	5			670	681		10.1080/14763141.2021.1884284			MAY 3 2024	2024	During running, the mechanical energy of the centre of mass of the body (COM) oscillates throughout the step like a spring-mass system, where part of its mechanical energy is stored during negative phases to be released during the following positive phases. This storage-release of energy improves muscle-tendon efficiency, which is related to lower-limb stiffness. This study explores the effect of sports background on the bouncing mechanism, by examining differences in stiffness and step spatiotemporal parameters between swimmers and football athletes. All athletes performed three consecutive running bouts on an instrumented treadmill at three different speeds (3.9, 4.4 and 5.0 m center dot s(-1)). The ground reaction forces were recorded. Vertical stiffness and step spatiotemporal parameters were analysed and compared using a two-way ANOVA. Vertical stiffness of football players was on average 21.0 +/- 1.1% higher than swimmers. The modification of step spatiotemporal parameters also suggests a more elastic rebound by increasing the stretch of tendons relative to muscle within muscle-tendon units in football players. Compared to swimmers, they (1) decrease the effective contact time by 9.7 +/- 2.4% and (2) decrease the duration of the push by 15.0 +/- 6.4%, suggesting that background training adaptations influence spring-mass behaviour during running.		[Nunez Lisboa, M.; Penailillo, L. E.; Cancino, J.; Zbinden-Foncea, H.] Fac Med, Sch Kinesiol, Exercise Sci Lab, Santiago, Chile; [Zbinden-Foncea, H.] Clin Santa Maria, Santiago, Chile; [Dewolf, A. H.] Univ Roma Tor Vergata, Dept Syst Med, Rome, Italy; [Dewolf, A. H.] Univ Roma Tor Vergata, Ctr Space Biomed, Rome, Italy; [Dewolf, A. H.] Inst NeuroSci, Lab Biomech & Physiol Locomot, Louvain La Neuve, Belgium; [Dewolf, A. H.] Univ Roma Tor Vergata, Dept Syst Med, Rome, Italy; [Dewolf, A. H.] Univ Roma Tor Vergata, Ctr Space Biomed, Rome, Italy; [Dewolf, A. H.] Inst NeuroSci, Lab Biomech & Physiol Locomot, Louvain La Neuve, Belgium								5							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000625679100001	43	Article; Article		
J	Ramasamy, Yuvaraj; Usman, Juliana; Sundar, Viswanath; Towler, Harley; King, Mark								Kinetic and kinematic determinants of shuttlecock speed in the forehand jump smash performed by elite male Malaysian badminton players								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	5			582	597		10.1080/14763141.2021.1877336			MAY 3 2024	2024	Badminton is the fastest racket sport in the world with smash speeds reaching over 111 m/s (400 kph). This study examined the forehand jump smash in badminton using synchronised force plates and full-body motion capture to quantify relationships to shuttlecock speed through correlations. Nineteen elite male Malaysian badminton players were recorded performing forehand jump smashes with the fastest, most accurate jump smash from each player analysed. The fastest smash by each participant was on average 97 m/s with a peak of 105 m/s. A correlational analysis revealed that a faster smash speed was characterised by a more internally rotated shoulder, a less elevated shoulder, and less extended elbow at contact. The positioning of the arm at contact appears to be critical in developing greater shuttlecock smash speeds. Vertical ground reaction force and rate of force development were not correlated with shuttlecock speed, and further investigation is required as to their importance for performance of the jump smash e.g., greater jump height and shuttle angle. It is recommended that players/coaches focus on not over-extending the elbow or excessively elevating the upper arm at contact when trying to maximise smash speed.		[Ramasamy, Yuvaraj; Usman, Juliana] Univ Malaya, Fac Engn, Dept Biomed Engn, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia; [Ramasamy, Yuvaraj; Sundar, Viswanath] Natl Sports Inst Malaysia, Sports Biomech Dept, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia; [Usman, Juliana] Univ Malaya, Ctr Appl Biomech, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia; [Towler, Harley; King, Mark] Loughborough Univ, Sch Sport Exercise & Hlth Sci, Loughborough, Leics, England; [Usman, Juliana] Univ Malaya, Fac Engn, Dept Biomed Engn, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia; [Usman, Juliana] Univ Malaya, Ctr Appl Biomech, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia								22							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000625763500001	45	Article; Article		
J	Smith, Nathan D. W.; Burke, Dave J.								Influence of angular position on radar gun peak cricket ball speed measurements								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	6			695	708		10.1080/14763141.2021.1887343			JUN 2 2024	2024	The purpose of this study was to determine the agreement in peak ball speed measured using a radar gun and motion capture system then examine the influence of angular position. Peak ball speed was recorded with the radar gun in-line with the ball trajectory (0 degrees offset) and at 5 degrees offsets up to 35 degrees. Agreement between devices was calculated at 0 degrees and for grouped offset bins (0-5 degrees, 10-15 degrees, 20-25 degrees, and 30-35 degrees). At 0 degrees, a strong correlation (r = 0.99) and intraclass correlation coefficient (.984) were observed with a systematic overestimation by the radar gun (1.7 +/- 0.8 m/s). The residual speed between devices at the 30-35 degrees offset was significantly different to both 0-5 degrees (p < .001) and 10-15 degrees (p < .001) offsets. The radar gun consistently overestimated peak ball speed up to a similar to 20 degrees offset and thus can be positioned out of the line-of-throw to avoid obstructions.		[Smith, Nathan D. W.; Burke, Dave J.] Loughborough Univ, Sch Sport Exercise & Hlth Sci, Loughborough, Leics, England; [Smith, Nathan D. W.] Murdoch Univ, Ctr Hlth Aging, Perth, WA, Australia; [Smith, Nathan D. W.] Murdoch Univ, Murdoch Appl Sports Sci Lab, Perth, WA, Australia; [Smith, Nathan D. W.] Loughborough Univ, Sch Sport Exercise & Hlth Sci, Loughborough, Leics, England; [Smith, Nathan D. W.] Murdoch Univ, Ctr Hlth Aging, Perth, WA, Australia; [Smith, Nathan D. W.] Murdoch Univ, Murdoch Appl Sports Sci Lab, Perth, WA, Australia								10							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000625682500001	45	Article; Article		
J	Ishida, Tomoya; Koshino, Yuta; Yamanaka, Masanori; Ueno, Ryo; Taniguchi, Shohei; Ino, Takumi; Kasahara, Satoshi; Samukawa, Mina; Tohyama, Harukazu								Larger hip external rotation motion is associated with larger knee abduction and internal rotation motions during a drop vertical jump								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	5			640	654		10.1080/14763141.2021.1881151			MAY 3 2024	2024	Associations among hip motions, knee abduction and internal rotation motion during a drop vertical jump (DVJ), which increases the risk of anterior cruciate ligament injury, remain unclear. The purpose of this study was to examine associations among knee abduction, internal rotation and hip joint motions during a DVJ. Fifty-seven young female participants performed a DVJ from a 30-cm height. Hip and knee kinematics and kinetics were analysed using a three-dimensional motion analysis system and force plates. Multiple regression analysis showed that peak knee abduction angle was negatively associated with knee internal rotation and hip internal rotation excursions from initial contact (IC) to peak knee flexion, and positively associated with peak knee abduction moment (R-2 = 0.465, P< 0.001). Peak knee internal rotation angle was negatively associated with the hip flexion excursion from IC to peak knee flexion and peak hip adduction moment (R-2 = 0.194, P= 0.001). In addition, hip internal rotation excursion was negatively associated with knee abduction and internal rotation excursion from IC to 50 ms after IC. To avoid a large knee abduction and internal rotation motion during jump-landing training, it might be beneficial to provide landing instructions to avoid a large hip external rotation motion.		[Ishida, Tomoya; Koshino, Yuta; Taniguchi, Shohei; Kasahara, Satoshi; Samukawa, Mina; Tohyama, Harukazu] Hokkaido Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, Sapporo, Hokkaido, Japan; [Yamanaka, Masanori] Hokkaido Chitose Coll Rehabil, Fac Hlth Sci, Chitose, Japan; [Ueno, Ryo] Univ Innsbruck, Dept Sport Sci, Innsbruck, Austria; [Ino, Takumi] Hokkaido Univ Sci, Fac Hlth Sci, Sapporo, Hokkaido, Japan; [Samukawa, Mina] Hokkaido Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, Sapporo, Hokkaido, Japan								13							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000625773800001	43	Article; Article		
J	Rewilak, Johan								The (non) determinants of Olympic success								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				22	5			546	570	1527002521992833	10.1177/1527002521992833			JUN 2021	2021	This paper empirically examines the determinants of Summer Olympic success during the period 1996-2016. By modifying the panel Tobit estimator using the Mundlak transform, the results find that population size and the host effect are the only statistically significant determinants of Olympic attainment. We also show that participating in front of a home crowd will stimulate athletic performance equally for each gender, but the impact of population differs between the sexes. These findings are confirmed using a hurdle estimator. This relaxes the assumption that the factors determining Olympic success are the same as those that influence the quantity of success.		[Rewilak, Johan] Aston Univ, Aston Business Sch, Birmingham B4 7ET, W Midlands, England; [Rewilak, Johan] Aston Univ, Aston Business Sch, Birmingham B4 7ET, W Midlands, England								24							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000621142500001	28	Article; Article		
J	Martin, Chelsea L.; Shanley, Ellen; Harnish, Chris; Knab, Amy; Christopher, Shefali; Vallabhajosula, Srikant; Bullock, Garrett								The relationship between flourishing, injury status, and resilience in collegiate athletes								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	4			925	933	1747954121994559	10.1177/1747954121994559			AUG 2021	2021	Background Flourishing is a multi-dimensional construct that encompasses physical, psychological and social well-being. A proposed positive attribute of flourishing is resilience, which is the ability to bounce back despite the presence of stressors. A common stressor among athletes is overuse injuries, which may negatively affect well-being. Objective To examine the relationships of resilience and overuse injury with flourishing in collegiate athletes. Materials and methods 253 college athletes participated. The Flourishing Scale, Oslo Sports Trauma Research Center Overuse Injury Questionnaire (OSTRC), and Brief Resilience Scale (BRS) were administered via online questionnaire. For OSTRC scores, athletes were classified into injury and participation status groups. For BRS scores, athletes were classified into low resilience (LR), normal resilience (NR), and high resilience (HR) groups. Results Median flourishing score was 50.0 (46.5-53.5); mean BRS score was 21.6 (SD 4.3). Overuse injury and substantial overuse injury incidence proportion (IP) were 25.4 (95% CI: 20.3, 30.5) and 9.1 (95% CI: 7.0, 11.2). The IP for participants unable to play was 15.1 (95% CI: 12.9, 17.2). Significant differences were found in flourishing among resilience groups (p = 0.002) but not among overuse injury groups (p = 0.140) or participation variables (p = 0.205). Conclusion College athletes demonstrated high flourishing scores. Flourishing demonstrated a significant relationship with resilience across all groups but not among overuse injury or participation status. This finding indicates that college athlete well-being is strongly associated with resilience. Future longitudinal studies are needed to determine if resilience can be modified to positively influence athlete well-being.		[Martin, Chelsea L.; Shanley, Ellen] ATI Phys Therapy, 200 Patewood Dr C250, Greenville, SC 29615 USA; [Harnish, Chris] Mary Baldwin Univ, Dept Exercise Sci, Staunton, VA USA; [Knab, Amy] Queens Univ, Kinesiol Dept, Charlotte, NC USA; [Christopher, Shefali; Vallabhajosula, Srikant] Elon Univ, Dept Phys Therapy Educ, Elon, NC USA; [Bullock, Garrett] Univ Oxford, Ctr Sport Exercise & Osteoarthrit Res Versus Arth, Oxford, England; [Bullock, Garrett] Univ Oxford, Nuffield Dept Orthopaed Rheumatol & Musculoskelet, Oxford, England; [Bullock, Garrett] Wake Forest Sch Med, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Winton Salem, NC USA; [Martin, Chelsea L.] ATI Phys Therapy, 200 Patewood Dr C250, Greenville, SC 29615 USA								8							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000620759200001	38	Article; Article		
J	Guerrero-Calderon, Berni; Klemp, Maximilian; Morcillo, Jose Alfonso; Memmert, Daniel								How does the workload applied during the training week and the contextual factors affect the physical responses of professional soccer players in the match?								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	4			994	1003	1747954121995610	10.1177/1747954121995610			AUG 2021	2021	The aim of this study was to examine whether match physical output can be predicted from the workload applied in training by professional soccer players. Training and match load records from two professional soccer teams belonging to the Spanish First and Second Division were collected through GPS technology over a season (N = 1678 and N = 2441 records, respectively). The factors playing position, season period, quality of opposition, category and playing formation were considered into the analysis. The level of significance was set at p <= .05. The prediction models yielded a conditional R-squared in match of 0.51 in total distance (TD); 0.58 in high-intensity distance (HIRD, from 14 to 24 km center dot h(-1)); and 0.60 in sprint distance (SPD, >24 km center dot h(-1)). The main finding of this study was that the physical output of players in the match was predicted from the training-load performed during the previous training week. The training-TD negatively affected the match physical output while the training-HIRD showed a positive effect. Moreover, the contextual factors - playing position, season period, division and quality of opposition - affected the players' physical output in the match. Therefore, these results suggest the appropriateness of programming lower training volume but increasing the intensity of the activity throughout the weekly microcycle, and considering contextual factors within the load programming.		[Guerrero-Calderon, Berni] Univ Granada, Dept Phys Educ & Sports, Granada, Spain; [Klemp, Maximilian; Memmert, Daniel] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Exercise Sci & Comp Sci Sports, Cologne, Germany; [Morcillo, Jose Alfonso] Univ Jaen, Dept Phys Educ & Sports, Jaen, Spain; [Guerrero-Calderon, Berni] Univ Granada, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Ctra Alfacar S-N, Granada 18011, Spain								18							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000620306000001	40	Article; Article		
J	Donmez, Gurhan; Ozkan, Omer; Menderes, Yigitcan; Torgutalp, Serife Seyma; Karacoban, Levend; Denerel, Nevzad; Kudas, Savas								The effects of home confinement on physical activity level and mental status in professional football players during COVID-19 outbreak								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				50	2			157	163		10.1080/00913847.2021.1888630			MAR 4 2022	2022	Objectives: The coronavirus outbreak caused significant changes in football around the world, such as the suspension of leagues and home isolation of players, etc. The main purpose of the present study was to assess the psychological impacts of lockdown and similar restrictions on professional football players during the coronavirus pandemic. Materials and methods: The players from 36 professional football teams (n = 977) among Turkish Super League and First League teams were invited to complete a questionnaire including the Center for Epidemiologic Studies Depression Scale (CES-D), Impact of Event Scale-Revised Scores (IES-R) and short form of International Physical Activity Questionnaire (IPAQ). Results: The online survey was completed by 237 players (24.3%). The mean number of self-quarantine day of participants was 26.9 +/- 6.2 days. The median CES-D Scale and IES-R scores were 6.0 (min:0, max:42) and 23.0 (min:0, max:59), respectively. IPAQ scores of the players showed that four-fifths of the players still maintain high physical activity levels. There were negative, very weak and significant correlations between CES-D score and being married (r = -0.146, p = 0.024), as well as between CES-D score and IPAQ-Walking (r = -0.189, p = 0.004). A significant positive very weak correlation was observed between CES-D score and self-quarantine days (r = 0.148, p = 0.024). IPAQ-Walking was an independent predictor of CES-D. Conclusion: These findings support that maintaining regular physical activity and routinely exercising in a safe home environment is one of the most important strategies to ensure healthy mental state.		[Donmez, Gurhan; Ozkan, Omer; Menderes, Yigitcan; Karacoban, Levend] Hacettepe Univ, Dept Sports Med, Fac Med, Ankara, Turkey; [Donmez, Gurhan] Genclerbirligi Sports Club, Ankara, Turkey; [Torgutalp, Serife Seyma] Gaziler Phys Therapy & Rehabil Training & Res Hos, Ankara, Turkey; [Denerel, Nevzad] Yeni Malatyaspor Sports Club, Malatya, Turkey; [Kudas, Savas] Osmanlispor Football Club, Ankara, Turkey; [Donmez, Gurhan] Hacettepe Univ, Spor Hekimligi AD, Tip Fak Hastaneleri, Ankara, Turkey								22							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000620037100001	47	Article; Article		
J	Li, Yumeng; Koldenhoven, Rachel M.; Jiwan, Nigel C.; Zhan, Jieyun; Liu, Ting								Intra-trunk and arm coordination displayed by Olympic rowing athletes								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	5			655	669		10.1080/14763141.2021.1883728			MAY 3 2024	2024	The purpose was to assess the intra-trunk and arm coordination of Olympic athletes during rowing on an ergometer. Rowing was performed at three stroke rates (18, 26, and 32 strokes/min). The sagittal plane motions of trunk segments and upper arm were collected for 59 Olympic athletes (32 females and 27 males) from the Chinese National Rowing Team. The coupling angles between the three pairs of segments (lumbar-pelvis, thorax-lumbar, upper arm-thorax) were generated using a vector coding method. The coupling angles were classified: in-phase, anti-phase, superior-phase, and inferior-phase. Three-way, mixed-model ANOVA were used to test the time spent in each coordination pattern. The trunk segments and upper arms demonstrated an in-phase coordination pattern for most of the time. During the drive phase, the time spent in in-phase was increased at higher stroke rates. Athletes are encouraged to use this in-phase pattern, especially between the pelvis and lumbar spine during training with high demands of stroke repetitions or time. During the recovery phase, the trunk segments were rotating mostly in-phase whereas the upper arm was flexing dominantly to maintain stroke length at higher stroke rates. Female and male rowers exhibited similar intra-trunk coordination patterns except for the upper arm-thorax pair.		[Li, Yumeng; Koldenhoven, Rachel M.; Jiwan, Nigel C.; Zhan, Jieyun; Liu, Ting] Texas State Univ, Dept Hlth & Human Performance, San Marcos, TX 78666 USA; [Li, Yumeng] Texas State Univ, Dept Hlth & Human Performance, San Marcos, TX 78666 USA								11							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000625729100001	37	Article; Article		
J	Mao, Min; Yin, Yan; Luo, Dongmei; Liu, Hui; Yu, Bing								Evaluation of dynamic postural control during single-leg landing tasks using initial impact force, landing leg stiffness and time to stabilisation								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	2			182	195		10.1080/14763141.2020.1833969			FEB 1 2024	2024	Time to stabilisation (TTS) provides limited information to evaluate the dynamic postural control for individuals with functional ankle instability in single-leg landing task. More information is needed to understand TTS and evaluate the dynamic postural control better. The purpose is to develop a method estimating TTS, initial impact force (IIF) and landing leg stiffness (LLS) through fitting ground reaction force (GRF) decay in single leg landing with exponential vibration decay function (EVDF), and investigate effects of landing directions and GRF components on these parameters. Thirty-nine healthy participants were recruited. EVDF was used to fit GRF decays in different single-leg landings. TTS, IIF, and LLS were compared across landing directions and GRF components. The mean regression determinants of fitting GRF decays with EVDF were greater than 0.50. TTS was sensitive to GRF components (P = 0.041 females, P = 0.028 males). IIF was sensitive to GRF components (P = 0.001) for both genders. LLS was sensitive to GRF components (P = 0.023) for males. This method showed a moderate to strong feasibility for reporting GRF decay during landing, and provided movement characteristic information for better understanding of dynamic postural control together with TTS during landing.		[Mao, Min; Yu, Bing] Univ N Carolina, Div Phys Therapy, Chapel Hill, NC 27515 USA; [Yin, Yan] Beijing Univ Post & Telecommun, Dept Phys Educ, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Luo, Dongmei; Liu, Hui] Beijing Sport Univ, Coll Human Movement Sci, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Yu, Bing] Univ N Carolina, Div Phys Therapy, Chapel Hill, NC 27515 USA								3							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000619036400001	31	Article; Article		
J	Severin, Anna C.; Barnes, Sally G.; Tackett, Stewart A.; Barnes, C. Lowry; Mannen, Erin M.								The required number of trials for biomechanical analysis of a golf swing								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				20	2			238	246		10.1080/14763141.2018.1554085			FEB 17 2021	2021	The increasing interest in the biomechanical analysis of the golf swing warrants establishing the minimum number of trials required to obtain reliable data. Several such methods have been suggested previously for other movement tasks, and it has been shown that the number of required trials depends on the method used and on the task examined. This study aimed to compare three methods of reliability: a sequential average, intraclass correlations, and a modified version of the standard error of measurement (SEMind). Kinematic and kinetic data of 10 recreational golfers performing 15 shots with both a six-iron and a driver was collected using a ten-camera motion capture system and force platforms. Range-of-motion, velocity, joint moments, and ground reaction forces were extracted and analysed using the three methods. The sequential average method yielded the highest number of required trials (12), while the intraclass correlations and SEMind both resulted in lower numbers of required trials (4). Considering the variability between participants and strengths and limitations of the various methods, we conclude that 8 trials is sufficient for biomechanical analyses of a golf swing and recommend the SEMind method for determining how many swings should be collected.		[Severin, Anna C.; Barnes, Sally G.; Tackett, Stewart A.; Barnes, C. Lowry; Mannen, Erin M.] Univ Arkansas Med Sci, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Little Rock, AR 72205 USA; [Mannen, Erin M.] Univ Arkansas Med Sci, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Little Rock, AR 72205 USA								12							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000613833000009	29	Article; Article		
J	Pena Garcia-Orea, Guillermo; Belando-Pedreno, Noelia; Andres Merino-Barrero, Juan; Jimenez-Ruiz, Abel; Ramon Heredia-Elvar, Juan								Validation of an opto-electronic instrument for the measurement of weighted countermovement jump execution velocity								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				20	2			150	164		10.1080/14763141.2018.1526316			FEB 17 2021	2021	The purpose of this study was to analyse the reliability and validity of an opto-electronic sensor system (Velowin) compared to a linear velocity transducer (T-Force System) considered as the gold standard. Mean velocity (MV) and peak velocity (PV) generated in the Smith machine bar placed on the shoulders in counter-movement jump exercise (CMJ) were analysed. The study was conducted with a sample of 21 men with experience in resistance training. Five measurements were analysed for CMJ exercise in concentric phase using a progressive loading increase. Three jumps were made per load with a 3-4 min recovery between loads. The analysis of the variance confirmed that there were no significant differences (p > 0.05) in the execution velocity between Velowin and T-Force with each of the loads. The reliability analysis showed, with each of the loads, high values of the intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC = 0.95-0.99) and a 'substantial' Lin ' s concordance coefficient in MV (CCC >= 0.96) and between 'substantial' (CCC = 0.98) and 'almost perfect' (CCC = 0.99) in PV. These results confirm the reliability and validity of the Velowin device is reliable for measuring the execution velocity in loaded CMJ exercise.		[Pena Garcia-Orea, Guillermo; Ramon Heredia-Elvar, Juan] Int Inst Phys Exercise Sci & Hlth, Sports Sci Res Dept, Alicante, Spain; [Belando-Pedreno, Noelia] Univ Europea Madrid, Fac Biomed & Hlth Sci, Madrid, Spain; [Andres Merino-Barrero, Juan; Jimenez-Ruiz, Abel] Univ Murcia, Phys Act & Sports, Murcia, Spain; [Pena Garcia-Orea, Guillermo] Int Inst Phys Exercise Sci & Hlth, Sports Sci Res Dept, Alicante, Spain								15							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000613833000002	41	Article; Article		
J	Kons, Rafael Lima; Da Silva Junior, Jorge Nelson; Follmer, Bruno; Guarise Katcipis, Luiz Felipe; Almansba, Ramdane; Detanico, Daniele								Validity of judo-specific tests to assess neuromuscular performance of judo athletes								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				20	2			178	189		10.1080/14763141.2018.1527942			FEB 17 2021	2021	Uchi-komi Fitness Test (UFT) is a specific judo test that evaluates physiological fitness of judo athletes in similar conditions to judo matches. Neuromuscular parameters obtained by generic and judo-specific tests would aid to get more information about its criterion validity. This study aimed to analyse the relationship between UFT and shoulder external (PTEX) and internal (PTINT) rotation torque, handgrip strength (HGS) and vertical jumps (VJs) performance. The relationship between UFT and Judogi grip strength test (JGST) was also investigated. Eighteen male judo athletes participated in this study. Athletes performed neuromuscular tests (VJ, PTEX, PTINT and HGS) and judo-specific tests (JGST and UFT). Pearson's correlation was used with the level set at p < 0.05. Significant correlation was found between UFT and all VJ variables (r = 0.50-0.72, p < 0.004), UFT a + b (two first series of UFT) and PTEX (r = 0.49, p = 0.033), UFT and PTINT (r = 0.47, p = 0.044). Also, UFT was correlated to JGST (r = 0.50-0.72, p < 0.044, respectively). We conclude that muscle power of lower limbs, PTEX and PTINT was related to UFT. Strength-endurance in the upper limbs (JGST) was also related to the UFT performance.		[Kons, Rafael Lima; Da Silva Junior, Jorge Nelson; Follmer, Bruno; Guarise Katcipis, Luiz Felipe; Detanico, Daniele] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Phys Educ Dept, Biomech Lab, Florianopolis, SC, Brazil; [Almansba, Ramdane] Univ Quebec Montreal, Dept Phys Act Sci, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Kons, Rafael Lima] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Phys Educ Dept, Biomech Lab, Florianopolis, SC, Brazil								9							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000613833000004	32	Article; Article		
J	Liu, Rixu; Qian, Dongyang; Chen, Yushu; Zou, Jianyu; Zheng, Shicong; Bai, Bo; Lin, Zefeng; Zhang, Yu; Chen, Yi								Investigation of normal knees kinematics in walking and running at different speeds using a portable motion analysis system								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	4			417	430		10.1080/14763141.2020.1864015			APR 2 2024	2024	Walking and running at different speeds are common in daily life. This study investigated 6 degrees of freedom (DOF) kinematics of normal knees of Chinese during walking and running. Forty healthy participants were investigated in 4 conditions: comfortable walking, normal walking, slow running and ordinary running. The range of motion (ROM) and peak values in 6 DOF kinematics were analysed. As the speed increased, a general increase in flexion, lateral and proximal translations occurred. Significant increases of ROM in flexion/extension, axial rotation and medial/lateral translations were observed. The ROM of adduction/abduction, anterior/posterior and proximal/distal translations were greatest during normal walking. The maximum and minimum flexion/extension, maximum internal rotation and tibial lateral translations increased with the increase of speed. The maximum and minimum tibial proximal translations in running were found being greater than walking. A phenomenon between walking and running was observed: both tibial proximal/distal and medial/lateral translations increased when changed from walking to running. Non-linear transition exists in 6 DOF kinematics during walking to running. Discoveries in this study may have potential clinical values to serve as references of normal walking and running in the management of knee injury and knee rehabilitation.		[Liu, Rixu; Qian, Dongyang; Chen, Yushu; Zou, Jianyu; Zheng, Shicong; Bai, Bo; Chen, Yi] Guangzhou Med Univ, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Affiliated Hosp 1, Guangzhou, Peoples R China; [Liu, Rixu; Qian, Dongyang; Chen, Yushu; Zou, Jianyu; Zheng, Shicong; Bai, Bo; Lin, Zefeng; Zhang, Yu; Chen, Yi] Guangdong Key Lab Orthopaed Technol & Implant Mat, Guangzhou, Peoples R China; [Liu, Rixu] Jinan Univ, Inst Orthopaed Dis, Guangzhou, Peoples R China; [Lin, Zefeng; Zhang, Yu] Guangzhou Gen Hosp Guangzhou Mil Command, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Guangzhou, Peoples R China; [Chen, Yi] Guangzhou Med Univ, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Affiliated Hosp 1, Guangzhou, Peoples R China; [Chen, Yi] Guangdong Key Lab Orthopaed Technol & Implant Mat, Guangzhou, Peoples R China								20							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000617953600001	39	Article; Article		
J	Pratile, Taylor; Marshall, Cameron; DeMatteo, Carol								Examining how time from sport-related concussion to initial assessment predicts return-to-play clearance								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				50	2			132	140		10.1080/00913847.2021.1879603			MAR 4 2022	2022	Objective: (i) To analyze data of adolescents who have sustained a sport-related concussion (SRC) through the use of Complete Concussion Management Inc. (CCMI) concussion database system; and (ii) to determine an optimal time to assess and manage an athlete with an SRC by prospectively analyzing data from CCMI concussion database system. Method: A cohort of patients, ages 8-18 years, who sustained an SRC, assessed 30 days or less from injury and were treated at partnered CCMI clinics across Canada were prospectively followed. The primary outcome measure was recovery, defined as CCMI discharge, which includes an athlete having completed all return-to-school and return-to-play steps and passed the Gapski-Goodman test without symptom exacerbation. Results: 1213 athletes (482 female) were included for analysis. Days between injury and initial assessment (p = 0.00), male sex (p = 0.00), and previous concussion history (p = 0.00) were significant predictors of time to discharge. A log-rank test revealed a significant difference (p = 0.00) in time to discharge with athletes assessed <10 days of injury discharged at a mean of 23.5 days (95% CI, 22.5, 24.5) and those assessed at day 10 to 30 were discharged at a mean of 37.1 days (95% CI, 33.7, 40.5). Athletes who were assessed at 0 to 9 days from injury were two times more likely to be discharged sooner compared to those athletes assessed 10 to 30 days from injury (HR 2.03, p = 0.00). Conclusion: Time from SRC to initial assessment significantly predicted time to discharge, with those being evaluated earlier experiencing a faster discharge. The results aid in establishing recommended timelines for evaluation following an SRC in order to prevent or mitigate athletes experiencing a prolonged recovery and encourage timely access to care and a quicker return to life post-concussive injury.		[Pratile, Taylor; DeMatteo, Carol] McMaster Univ, Dept Rehabil Sci, Hamilton, ON, Canada; [Marshall, Cameron] Complete Concuss Management Inc, Dept Res, Oakville, ON, Canada; [Pratile, Taylor] McMaster Univ, Fac Sci, Sch Rehabil Sci, 1400 Main St West,Room 403, Hamilton, ON L8S 1C7, Canada								20							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000617957200001	30	Article; Article		
J	Alberton, Cristine Lima; Fonseca, Bruna Amaral; Nunes, Gabriela Neves; Bergamin, Marco; Pinto, Stephanie Santana								Magnitude of vertical ground reaction force during water-based exercises in women with obesity								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	4			470	483		10.1080/14763141.2021.1872690			APR 2 2024	2024	Individuals with obesity are recommended to practice physical activity with reduced weight bearing, such as water-based exercises. However, the magnitude of the vertical ground reaction force (Fz) during these exercises is unknown in this population. This study aimed to verify the magnitude of peak Fz (Fz(peak)) in women with obesity during different exercises performed in water and on land and at different intensities. Ten adult women with obesity class 1 (body mass index: 31.6 +/- 0.57 kg center dot m(-2)) completed two randomised sessions, one performed on land and other in water, composed by three exercises (stationary running, frontal kick, butt kick) performed at cadences of 80 b center dot min(-1), 100 b center dot min(-1) and maximal. Fz(peak) value was determined in each situation. Data were analysed using repeated-measures three-way ANOVA (alpha = 0.05). Significant lower Fz(peak) values were observed in water (p < 0.001), with no significant differences between the exercises. A significant difference in the Fz(peak) was verified between maximal cadence and 80 b center dot min(-1) (p = 0.01). Water-based exercises performed by women with obesity revealed a Fz(peak) reduction from land to water corresponding to 41-67%. Also, the three water-based exercises resulted in similar Fz(peak) values, while an increase was observed 80 b center dot min(-1) to the maximal cadence.		[Alberton, Cristine Lima; Fonseca, Bruna Amaral; Nunes, Gabriela Neves; Pinto, Stephanie Santana] Univ Fed Pelotas, Dept Sports, Pelotas, RS, Brazil; [Bergamin, Marco] Univ Padua, Dept Med, Sport & Exercise Med Div, Padua, Italy; [Alberton, Cristine Lima] Univ Fed Pelotas, Dept Sports, Pelotas, RS, Brazil								6							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000617172200001	50	Article; Article		
J	Hanley, Brian; Tucker, Catherine B.; Bissas, Athanassios; Merlino, Stephane; Gruber, Allison H.								Footstrike patterns and race performance in the 2017 IAAF World Championship men's 10,000 m final								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	3			314	323		10.1080/14763141.2020.1856916			MAR 3 2024	2024	Midfoot- (MFS) and forefoot-striking (FFS) runners usually switch to rearfoot-striking (RFS) during marathons. However, world-class runners might resist modifications during shorter races. The purpose of this study was to analyse footstrike patterns, ground contact times and running speeds in a World Championship men's 10,000 m final. Footstrike patterns and contact times of the top 12 finishing men (24 +/- 5 years) were recorded (150 Hz) during laps 1, 5, 11, 15, 20 and 25. Split times for each 100-m segment were obtained. No RFS patterns were observed; there was no difference between the number of FFS and MFS athletes at any distance (p >= 0.581) and no change in the proportions of FFS and MFS occurred (p = 0.383). No link between race performance and footstrike pattern appeared given the similar number who used FFS or MFS and their similar finishing times. Despite slower running speeds and longer contact times in the middle of the race (p <= 0.024), no effect on footstrike patterns occurred. The prevalence of anterior footstrike patterns in this world-class race reflects the capability of maintaining fast paces (>22 km/h). Changes in footstrike pattern might accompany the physiological and neuromuscular effects of fatigue over longer distances.		[Hanley, Brian; Tucker, Catherine B.; Bissas, Athanassios] Leeds Beckett Univ, Carnegie Sch Sport, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England; [Bissas, Athanassios] Univ Gloucestershire, Appl Sport & Exercise Sci, Gloucester, England; [Merlino, Stephane] World Athlet, Dev Dept, Monte Carlo, Monaco; [Gruber, Allison H.] Indiana Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Bloomington, IN 47405 USA; [Hanley, Brian] Leeds Beckett Univ, Carnegie Sch Sport, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England								15							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000616839800001	27	Article; Article		
J	Stone, Joseph Antony; Smith, Adam; Barry, Anthony								The undervalued set piece: Analysis of soccer throw-ins during the English Premier League 2018-2019 season								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	3			830	839	1747954121991447	10.1177/1747954121991447			JUN 2021	2021	Set pieces in soccer (i.e., free kicks and corners) have been examined in detail and are a common focus for coaches during training and performance preparation. However, limited evidence is available on the impact of throw-ins on soccer performance and if coaches should dedicate time in training towards this specific set piece. Therefore, this research aimed to firstly examine if throw-in performance is linked with soccer performance, and secondly the effect throw-in direction and length has on first contact success rate, possession retention, mean time in possession and shot creation. 16,154 throw-ins from 380 English Premier League matches during the 2018-2019 season were analysed. Higher final league position was correlated to increased throw-in first contact success and possession retention. 83% of throw-in's resulted in a successful first contact, 54% resulted in possession being retained and 8.8% of throw-ins led to a shot at goal from the possession achieved after a successful first contact. Throw-in's which went backwards or laterally in direction resulted in increased first contact success, retaining of possession, and shot creation. The least efficient throw-in was forwards and long, which resulted in both reduced first contact success and possession retention. Findings highlight, that throwing the ball laterally or backwards should be a focus for coaches and players during attacking training. In contrast, a team's defensive strategy should reduce the opportunities to throw backwards or laterally with a higher press and look to force a long forward throw-in, therefore, increasing the likelihood of winning possession and counter attacking.		[Stone, Joseph Antony] Sheffield Hallam Univ, Sport & Human Performance Res Grp, Sport & Phys Act Res Ctr, Sheffield, S Yorkshire, England; [Smith, Adam] Wigan Athlet Football Club, Wigan, England; [Barry, Anthony] Chelsea Football Club, London, England; [Stone, Joseph Antony] Sheffield Hallam Univ, Sport & Phys Act Res Ctr, Sheffield, S Yorkshire, England								16							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000619962300001	21	Article; Article		
J	Murphy, Jessica; Sullivan, Philip								Factors associated with coach-athlete conversations about mental health in intercollegiate sport								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	3			509	518	1747954121993455	10.1177/1747954121993455			JUN 2021	2021	Increasing conversation about mental health is one way to decrease stigma and prevent/treat maladaptive processes within the context of sport. Due to their proximity and influence over athletes, coaches can increase conversation and change team culture. The objective of this study was to apply the Theory of Planned Behavior (TPB) to explore the factors associated with coach-athlete conversation about mental health. A total of 136 Canadian coaches completed a demographic questionnaire as well as a TPB-based survey measuring Attitudes, Perceived Behavioral Control (PBC), Social Norms and Intention. Intention was measured as Role perception, if a coach believed it was their role to be involved in athlete mental health. Behavior was measured as talking with an athlete(s) about mental health. Approximately 68% of coaches had spoken to athletes about mental health in the last season. The linear regression model predicted a significant amount (42.7%) of the variance in Intention (p < .05) from the three TPB constructs. Logistic regression found a significant interaction effect of PBC and Intention on Behavior (p < .01). Measured TPB construct scores were influenced by previous mental health training, personal experience with mental illness, age group and the act of talking (p < .05). Although a promising amount of coaches spoke to athletes about mental health, improvement is still possible. Mental health training should continue to be promoted to all members of the athletic community. As attitude scores were generally positive, this training should potentially focus more on improving capabilities and social norms.		[Murphy, Jessica; Sullivan, Philip] Brock Univ, Dept Kinesiol, St Catharines, ON, Canada; [Murphy, Jessica] 1812 Sir Isaac Brock Way, St Catharines, ON, Canada								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000619974800001	52	Article; Article		
J	Smothers, Neil; Cropley, Brendan; Lloyd, Rhodri; Oliver, Jon								An exploration of the landscape of fundamental movement skills and strength development in UK professional football academies								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	3			608	621	1747954121992522	10.1177/1747954121992522			JUN 2021	2021	The purpose of this study was to investigate the landscape of Fundamental Movement Skills (FMS) and strength development in professional football (soccer) academies in the UK. To achieve this, we interviewed 16 participants, whose primary responsibility was the physical development of youth players from a variety of Elite Player Performance Plan (EPPP) categorised academies. Following abductive analysis, we identified that whilst all participants acknowledged the importance of FMS and strength development for young football players, there was variance across EPPP categories relating to: (a) the time dedicated to developing FMS and strength; (b) the number, level of qualification, and utilisation of staff; and (c) the integration of the evidence informed practice into programme design and delivery. Although the key foci of academy strength and conditioning programmes generally prioritised injury reduction, performance improvement, and building a physical base for future development, the methods used to achieve these outcomes were varied. Finally, participants reported how relationships between support staff and technical coaching staff had a direct impact on the implementation of FMS and strength programmes. We have provided rich insights into a range of factors that may facilitate or hinder FMS and strength development within youth football players and thus helped to advance understanding of the practical implications of focusing on these key skills within athlete development programmes.		[Smothers, Neil] Coleg Y Cymoedd, Pontypridd, M Glam, Wales; [Cropley, Brendan] Univ South Wales, Sch Hlth Sport & Profess Practice, USW Sport Pk, Pontypridd CF37 5UR, M Glam, Wales; [Lloyd, Rhodri] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Cardiff Sch Sport & Hlth Sci, Youth Phys Dev Ctr, Cardiff, Wales; [Lloyd, Rhodri] AUT Univ, Sport Performance Res Inst, New Zealand SPRINZ, Auckland, New Zealand; [Lloyd, Rhodri] Waikato Inst Technol, Ctr Sport Sci & Human Performance, Hamilton, New Zealand; [Oliver, Jon] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Cardiff Sch Sport & Hlth Sci, Youth Phys Dev Ctr, Cardiff, Wales; [Oliver, Jon] AUT Univ, Sport Performance Res Inst, New Zealand SPRINZ, Auckland, New Zealand; [Cropley, Brendan] Univ South Wales, Sch Hlth Sport & Profess Practice, USW Sport Pk, Pontypridd CF37 5UR, M Glam, Wales								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000619947300001	50	Article; Article		
J	Stegmann, Pascal; Sieghartsleitner, Roland; Zuber, Claudia; Zibung, Marc; Lenze, Lars; Conzelmann, Achim								Successful talent development in popular game sports in Switzerland: The case of ice hockey								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	3			710	721	1747954121992764	10.1177/1747954121992764			JUN 2021	2021	There is continuing discussion in talent research on the best approach to developing sporting expertise through learning activities during early sport participation. Among other concepts, the specialized sampling model describes a pathway between early specialization and early sampling and yields promising results in Swiss football. As successful constellations of early sport participation might be affected by sport-specific constraints (e.g., age of peak performance, selection pressure, and physiological/psychological requirements), other popular game sports may show similar promising pathways. This study investigates whether ice hockey, another popular game sport in Switzerland, shows similar successful constellations of early sport participation. A sample of 98 former Swiss junior national team players born between 1984 and 1994 reported on early sport participation through a retrospective questionnaire. Using the person-oriented Linking of Clusters after removal of a Residue (LICUR) method, volumes of in-club practice, free play, and activities besides ice hockey until 12 years of age were analyzed, along with player's age at initial club participation. The results indicate that ice hockey enthusiasts with the most free play and above-average in-club practice had a greater chance of reaching professional level compared to other groups. This implies that high domain specificity with varied sampling experiences is the most promising approach to developing sporting expertise in ice hockey. As similar results were previously found in Swiss football, comparable sport-specific constraints might indeed require similar constellations of learning activities during early sport participation. Therefore, in popular game sports in Switzerland, the specialized sampling model seems to be most promising.		[Stegmann, Pascal; Sieghartsleitner, Roland; Zuber, Claudia; Zibung, Marc; Lenze, Lars; Conzelmann, Achim] Univ Bern, Inst Sport Sci, Bremgartenstr 145, CH-3012 Bern, Switzerland; [Stegmann, Pascal] Univ Bern, Inst Sport Sci, Bremgartenstr 145, CH-3012 Bern, Switzerland								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000619962400001	50	Article; Article		
J	Moriyama, Shin-Ichiro; Mankyu, Hirotoshi; Tsunokawa, Takaaki; Kurono, Tsubasa; Mizukoshi, Hayato; Ogita, Futoshi								Does a jammer-type racing swimsuit improve sprint performance during maximal front-crawl swimming?								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	5			611	623		10.1080/14763141.2021.1878263			MAY 3 2024	2024	We investigated the effects of jammer-type racing swimsuits (RS) on swimming performance during arm-stroke-only (pull) and whole-body stroke (swim) in 25-m front-crawl with maximal effort. Twelve well-trained male collegiate swimmers wore RS and a conventional swimsuit (CS) and performed three tests: pull, swim, and pull using the system to measure active drag (MAD pull). Swimming velocity and intra-abdominal pressure (IAP) were determined in all tests. Stroke indices during pull and swim and drag-swimming velocity relationship and maximum propulsive power during MAD pull were also determined. Swimming velocities during pull and swim while wearing an RS (1.59 +/- 0.13 and 1.77 +/- 0.09 m center dot s(-1), respectively) were significantly higher than those wearing a CS (1.57 +/- 0.14 and 1.74 +/- 0.08 m center dot s(-1), respectively). Stroke length during pull and swim was significantly greater while wearing an RS (1.68 +/- 0.12 and 1.83 +/- 0.13 m, respectively) than wearing a CS (1.63 +/- 0.10 and 1.81 +/- 0.13 m, respectively). However, no significant differences were confirmed between the other variables in all tests. In conclusion, swimming performance is improved when wearing an RS compared with a CS.		[Moriyama, Shin-Ichiro] Tokyo Gakugei Univ, Dept Hlth & Sports Sci, Koganei, Tokyo, Japan; [Mankyu, Hirotoshi] Natl Inst Fitness & Sports Kanoya, Fac Sports & Budo Coaching Studies, Kanoya, Japan; [Tsunokawa, Takaaki] Univ Tsukuba, Fac Hlth & Sport Sci, Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan; [Kurono, Tsubasa; Mizukoshi, Hayato] Tokyo Gakugei Univ, Grad Sch Educ, Koganei, Tokyo, Japan; [Ogita, Futoshi] Natl Inst Fitness & Sports Kanoya, Fac Sports & Life Sci, Kanoya, Japan; [Moriyama, Shin-Ichiro] Tokyo Gakugei Univ, Dept Hlth & Sports Sci, Koganei, Tokyo, Japan								4							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000625808800001	36	Article; Article		
J	Judge, Lawrence W.; Cheetham, Phillip J.; Fox, Brian; Schoeff, Makenzie A.; Wang, Henry; Momper, Mary; Dickin, D. Clark								Using sport science to improve coaching: A case study of Felisha Johnson's Road to Rio								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	3			848	861	1747954121991451	10.1177/1747954121991451			JUN 2021	2021	During a shot put, there are different finite variables that can be controlled by the thrower, including release angle, release height, release direction, and release velocity. Previous studies have determined thresholds of release velocity necessary for achieving certain distances, and this case study sought to expand upon that concept. Conclusions from key biomechanical data can make a significant difference in the performance of athletes in the shot put if properly understood by coaches. By utilizing this scientific approach to the shot put event, the throws coach will be able to determine more accurate adjustments and devise training stimuli to better accommodate the athlete. In this case study, researchers and the coach attempted to bridge the gap in the approach to teaching and coaching the glide shot put by using a physics-based equation regarding projectile motion in tandem with biomechanical analyses. The use of immediate feedback via video analysis was an essential part the coaching and teaching system. The athlete's release angles decreased, and her maximum release velocities increased from 12.5 m/s in 2015 to 13.1 m/s in 2016. This USATF coaching education shot put project is an example in which the cooperation between sport science and coaching helped to produce an Olympic berth (19.24 m) by Felisha Johnson in the women's shot put in 2016.		[Judge, Lawrence W.; Fox, Brian; Schoeff, Makenzie A.; Wang, Henry; Momper, Mary; Dickin, D. Clark] Ball State Univ, Biomech Lab, Muncie, IN 47306 USA; [Cheetham, Phillip J.] United States Olymp & Paralymp Comm, Colorado Springs, CO USA; [Judge, Lawrence W.] Ball State Univ, Sch Kinesiol, Muncie, IN 47304 USA								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000619948800001	47	Article; Article		
J	Kim, Hyun-Chul; Park, Ki-Jun								Type of injury and recovery time in elite adolescent Korean judo athletes: An epidemiological study								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	3			682	689	1747954121990951	10.1177/1747954121990951			JUN 2021	2021	We aimed to assess the risk of injury associated with training activities in a population of elite adolescent judo athletes, expected to represent South Korea. From 2019, we prospectively collected data on elite adolescent judo athletes at the Korean Training Center. The athletes were assessed by sports medicine doctors, and data were stratified according to sex, weight class, and injury location. We used chi(2) tests to compare groups. Injury rates were expressed as Poisson rates with 95% confidence intervals. One-way analysis of variance was used to investigate the pain score and recovery time due to type of injury. The study included 240 elite adolescent judo athletes whose 617 injuries (annual average, 2.57 injuries/athlete) were recorded. When all athletes were considered, most injuries occurred in the lower extremities (39.71%), followed by the upper extremities (36.63%), trunk (16.69%), and head and neck area (6.97%). Recovery time significantly differed according to the body regions in the weight classes. The pain score and recovery time according to the type of injury were significantly different. When the pain score decreased by 1, the recovery time decreased by about 1.47 days. In all weight classes, female athletes had a higher injury rate than male athletes; both male and female athletes had different recovery time depending on their weight class. The type of injury influenced the pain score and recovery time, with pain score being associated with recovery time.		[Kim, Hyun-Chul] Korean Sport & Olymp Comm, Jincheon Gun, Chungcheongbuk, South Korea; [Park, Ki-Jun] Sangji Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Wonju 26339, South Korea; [Park, Ki-Jun] Sangji Univ, 83 Sangjidae Gil, Wonju 26339, South Korea								13							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000619964700001	29	Article; Article		
J	Marini, Carlo Ferri; Correale, Luca; Pellino, Vittoria Carnevale; Federici, Ario; Vandoni, Matteo; Lucertini, Francesco								Assessing Maximal Oxygen Uptake: Creating Personalized Incremental Exercise Protocols Simply and Quickly								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				43	1			86	92		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000569			FEB 2021	2021	Measuring cardiorespiratory fitness (CF) is important for researchers, clinicians, and exercise practitioners to assess an individual's CF. One method of assessing CF is accomplished by measuring the maximal oxygen uptake during a personalized maximal graded exercise test (GXT). Tailoring a GXT protocol to a specific subject can be troublesome and time-consuming. In this article, simple and ready-to-use spreadsheets allowing the creation of individualized walking, running, and cycling GXT protocols are presented and explained. The procedures within the spreadsheets are based on the latest validated protocols, and the spreadsheets represent a time-saving, practical, and useful tool.		[Marini, Carlo Ferri; Federici, Ario; Lucertini, Francesco] Univ Urbino Carlo Bo, Dept Biomol Sci, Div Exercise & Hlth Sci, Urbino, Italy; [Correale, Luca; Pellino, Vittoria Carnevale; Vandoni, Matteo] Univ Pavia, Dept Publ Hlth Expt Med & Forens Sci, LAMA Lab Adapted Motor Act, Pavia, Italy; [Pellino, Vittoria Carnevale] Univ Tor Vergata, Ind Engn Dept, Rome, Italy; [Marini, Carlo Ferri] Univ Urbino Carlo Bo, Dept Biomol Sci, Div Exercise & Hlth Sci, Urbino, Italy								7							Sport Sciences	WOS:000656645300008	26	Article; Article		
J	Vogrin, Matjaz; Licen, Teja; Dujic, Milka Kljaic								Ischiofemoral Impingement Syndrome: An Overview for Strength and Conditioning Professionals								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				43	1			63	71		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000568			FEB 2021	2021	Ischiofemoral impingement (IFI) is a hip condition associated with the entrapment of the quadratus femoris muscle between the ischiofemoral space and the lesser trochanter of the femur. As an overlooked cause of hip pain, it is often confused with other injuries (e.g., deep gluteal syndrome and proximal hamstring tendinitis), with S&C professionals and rehabilitation specialists being generally unaware of its existence. Therefore, the aim of this article is to present an overview of IFI, which includes diagnosis, injury mechanisms, and conservative treatment options.		[Vogrin, Matjaz; Licen, Teja] Univ Maribor, Fac Med, Inst Sports Med, Maribor, Slovenia; [Vogrin, Matjaz] Univ Med Ctr Maribor, Dept Orthopaed, Maribor, Slovenia; [Dujic, Milka Kljaic] Univ Med Ctr Maribor, Dept Radiol, Maribor, Slovenia; [Licen, Teja] Univ Maribor, Fac Med, Inst Sports Med, Maribor, Slovenia								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:000656645300006	44	Article; Article		
J	Bishop, Chris								Interlimb Asymmetries: Are Thresholds a Usable Concept?								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				43	1			32	36		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000554			FEB 2021	2021	The concept of thresholds has commonly appeared in the literature for the topic of interlimb asymmetry. However, with an abundance of literature showing asymmetry to be task- and metric-specific, the use of thresholds seems flawed. When computed, practitioners are often left with a percentage figure and it is not always entirely obvious how to interpret this value. This article aims to provide practitioners with some guidelines on meaningful ways to use and interpret interlimb asymmetry data.		[Bishop, Chris] Middlesex Univ, London Sport Inst, Greenlands Lane, London, England; [Bishop, Chris] Middlesex Univ, London Sport Inst, Greenlands Lane, London, England								60							Sport Sciences	WOS:000656645300004	27	Article; Article		
J	Genoe, Alexander; Rousseau, Ronald; Rousseau, Sandra								Applying Google Trends' Search Popularity Indicator to Professional Cycling								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				22	4			459	485	1527002520988329	10.1177/1527002520988329			MAY 2021	2021	This study uses Google Trends data to analyze the impact of the main events in the Tour de France 2019 on cyclists' online popularity in 12 countries and at a global scale. A fixed effects panel model revealed a strong own-country preference. While online popularity increased with the duration of the Tour, race incidents strongly influenced online popularity. Besides the yellow jersey, winning a stage was more important than wearing the green, white or polka dot jersey for most regions. Still, on a global scale, young cyclists' online popularity benefited more from wearing the white jersey than from winning a Tour stage.		[Genoe, Alexander] Katholieke Univ Leuven, Fac Econ & Business, Leuven, Belgium; [Rousseau, Ronald] Katholieke Univ Leuven, MSI, Fac Onderzoeksctr ECOOM, Leuven, Belgium; [Rousseau, Ronald] Univ Antwerp, Fac Social Sci, Antwerp, Belgium; [Rousseau, Sandra] Katholieke Univ Leuven, Fac Econ & Business, CEDON, Warmoesberg 26, B-1000 Brussels, Belgium; [Rousseau, Sandra] Katholieke Univ Leuven, Fac Econ & Business, CEDON, Warmoesberg 26, B-1000 Brussels, Belgium								5							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000618513700001	44	Article; Article		
J	Lisman, Peter; Wilder, Joshua N.; Berenbach, Joshua; Foster, James J.; Hansberger, Bethany L.								Sex differences in lower extremity kinematics during overhead and single leg squat tests								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	3			273	286		10.1080/14763141.2020.1839124			MAR 3 2024	2024	The Overhead Squat (OHS) and Single-Leg Squat (SLS) are two clinical tests used by practitioners to identify high-risk biomechanical movement patterns. Several published studies have reported sex differences in SLS performance; however, few have investigated variations during the OHS and none has measured kinematics with a marker-less motion capture system. Therefore, this study aimed to compare biomechanical movement patterns between male and female collegiate athletes during OHS and SLS testing. Seventy-five females and 58 male athletes completed OHS and SLS . A Microsoft Kinect sensor using Athletic Movement Assessment software (PhysiMax (R)) was used to measure kinematics. For the OHS, males displayed greater peak knee frontal plane projection angles (FPPA) (M:26 degrees +/- 10 degrees, F:20 degrees +/- 8 degrees; P < 0.05), peak hip flexion (M:-94 degrees +/- 14 degrees, F:-87 degrees +/- 15 degrees; P < 0.05), and peak trunk flexion angles (M:11 degrees +/- 11 degrees, F:6 degrees +/- 9 degrees; P < 0.05). For the SLS (dominant-limb), males displayed greater peak trunk flexion (M:32 degrees +/- 6 degrees, F:27 degrees +/- 7 degrees; P < 0.05). For the non-dominant limb, females displayed greater peak knee FPPA (F:-12 degrees +/- 9 degrees, M:-8 degrees +/- 9 degrees; P < 0.05) whereas males displayed greater peak trunk flexion angles (M:32 degrees +/- 5 degrees, F:27 degrees +/- 7 degrees; P < 0.05). These findings suggest the need for practitioners to develop sex-specific corrective exercise programmes in effort to improve lower extremity kinematics in athletes.		[Lisman, Peter; Berenbach, Joshua; Foster, James J.] Towson Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Towson, MD 21252 USA; [Wilder, Joshua N.; Hansberger, Bethany L.] Towson Univ, Dept Athlet, Towson, MD USA; [Lisman, Peter] Towson Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Towson, MD 21252 USA								10							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000609528900001	38	Article; Article		
J	Draper, Garrison; Wright, Matthew; Chesterton, Paul; Atkinson, Greg								The tracking of internal and external training loads with next-day player-reported fatigue at different times of the season in elite soccer players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	3			793	803	1747954121988960	10.1177/1747954121988960			JUN 2021	2021	The aim was to assess factor structure of player-reported fatigue and quantify within-subjects association between changes in training load measures and next day player-reported fatigue at different time points of an elite football season. Using longitudinal research design, twenty-four professional footballers, mean (SD) age of 25.7 (3.4) years, were monitored during their competitive season, including pre-season. Player-reported fatigue data and session ratings of perceived exertion (session-RPE) were collected via a mobile application. Player's Heart rate (HR) and global positioning system (GPS) data were collected daily for each player in field sessions. Principal component analysis (PCA) indicated three components with Eigenvalues above 1.0; "soreness", "mood, and "hydration". Within-player correlations between training load values and next day player-reported fatigue values were trivial to moderate (r approximate to -0.42 to -0.04). In-season we observed large correlations between Total Distance (TD) and PlayerLoad with Soreness (r = -0.55, 95% CI: -0.62 to -0.46; r = -.054, 95% CI: -0.62 to -0.46), but during pre-season, correlations were small (r = -0.15, 95% CI: -0.28 to -0.01; r = -0.13, 95% CI: -0.26 to 0.01). The HR TRIMP, TD and session-RPE measures each showed trivial to moderate correlations (r approximate to -0.41 to -0.08) with next day "mood". Our in-house player-reported fatigue questionnaire was sensitive to the multi-dimensional nature of fatigue, identifying physiological (soreness), psychological (mood and stress) and nutritional (hydration and nutrition) components. We found the in-season correlations with training load to be greater than previously reported in the literature, specifically with next day player-reported "soreness". Nevertheless, the correlations between the items of our scale and pre-season training load were small.		[Draper, Garrison; Wright, Matthew; Chesterton, Paul; Atkinson, Greg] Teesside Univ, Sch Hlth & Life Sci, Middlesbrough, Cleveland, England; [Draper, Garrison] Philadelphia Union, Major League Soccer MLS, Philadelphia, PA USA; [Draper, Garrison] Philadelphia Union, 2525 Seaport Dr, Philadelphia, PA 19013 USA								17							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000610305800001	54	Article; Article		
J	Rowe, Laura F.; Slater, Matthew J.								Will 'we' continue to exercise? The associations between group identification, identity leadership, and relational identification on group exercise class adherence								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	3			670	681	1747954120987140	10.1177/1747954120987140			JUN 2021	2021	The present study sought to provide support for the roles of both the social identity approach (group identification and identity leadership) and relational identification in adherence to group exercise classes. One hundred and twenty U.K. based group exercise class attendees completed an online survey in a cross-sectional design. Group identification, perceptions of identity leadership behaviour, and relational identification were not significantly associated with length of class attendance. However, both identity leadership behaviour of the class instructor and ingroup affect (measured as an element of multi-dimensional group identification), were significantly associated with expected likelihood of continued class participation. For every 1 unit increase in the identity leadership and in-group affect measures respectively, participants were 1.9 and 2.0 times more likely to be 'at or near 100%' likely to continue vs not. Social identity variables were not associated with how long exercisers had been attending class, but identity leadership and ingroup affect are positive influencers of expected future adherence. Further research into the social identity approach and identity leadership behaviour regards exercise class attendance tenure vs volume is warranted and is likely to benefit from the use of multi-dimensional group identification measures.		[Rowe, Laura F.; Slater, Matthew J.] Staffordshire Univ, Dept Sport & Exercise, Sch Life Sci & Educ, Leek Rd, Stoke On Trent ST4 2DF, Staffs, England; [Rowe, Laura F.] Staffordshire Univ, Dept Sport & Exercise, Sch Life Sci & Educ, Leek Rd, Stoke On Trent ST4 2DF, Staffs, England								21							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000611020500001	49	Article; Article		
J	Kim, Hyun Kyung; Mirjalili, Seyed Ali; Zhang, Yanxin; Xiang, Liangliang; Gu, Yaodong; Fernandez, Justin								Effect of gender and running experience on lower limb biomechanics following 5 km barefoot running								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	1			95	108		10.1080/14763141.2020.1829021			JAN 2 2024	2024	Barefoot running has been increasing in popularity, yet there is a gap in understanding concerning the biomechanics of mid-distance barefoot running, especially between genders and runners of different running-experience levels. This study examines the effects of running-experience, gender, and their interaction on running biomechanics following 5 km barefoot running. Before and after a 5 km run, three-dimensional kinematics and kinetics of the lower limb joints and plantar pressure during barefoot running were collected from 20 participants. Participants were stratified by their running-experience levels (novice and marathon-experienced) and gender. This study revealed significant gender effects on lower limb biomechanics following a 5 km barefoot run. Increased plantar pressure under the lateral aspect of the foot was observed in the female cohort, while the male cohort exhibited reduced plantar pressure under the lateral heel. This study suggests that modified lower limb running biomechanics and modified lateral foot loading after 5 km barefoot running may create a different foot loading environment for female and male runners that should be accommodated in barefoot runningand minimalist shoe design.		[Kim, Hyun Kyung; Mirjalili, Seyed Ali] Univ Auckland, Fac Med & Hlth Sci, Auckland, New Zealand; [Zhang, Yanxin] Univ Auckland, Dept Exercise Sci, Auckland, New Zealand; [Xiang, Liangliang; Gu, Yaodong] Ningbo Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Ningbo, Peoples R China; [Xiang, Liangliang; Gu, Yaodong; Fernandez, Justin] Ningbo Univ, Res Acad Grand Hlth Interdisciplinary, Ningbo, Peoples R China; [Gu, Yaodong; Fernandez, Justin] Univ Auckland, Auckland Bioengn Inst, Auckland, New Zealand; [Fernandez, Justin] Univ Auckland, Dept Engn Sci, Auckland, New Zealand; [Fernandez, Justin] Ningbo Univ, Res Acad Grand Hlth Interdisciplinary, Ningbo, Peoples R China; [Fernandez, Justin] Univ Auckland, Auckland Bioengn Inst, Auckland, New Zealand; [Fernandez, Justin] Univ Auckland, Dept Engn Sci, Auckland, New Zealand								14							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000607103700001	43	Article; Article		
J	Frey, Bruno S.; Gullo, Anthony								Does Sports Make People Happier, or Do Happy People More Sports?								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				22	4			432	458	1527002520985667	10.1177/1527002520985667			MAY 2021	2021	We contribute to the happiness literature by analyzing the causal relationship between sports and happiness. Using longitudinal data from the German Socio-Economic Panel (GSOEP), we find a positive correlation between sports participation and reported life satisfaction. This relationship is stronger at younger and older ages than in middle age, and for people in bad health compared to those in average health. We further provide evidence for both causal directions. It turns out that the causal impact of engaging in sports on happiness is about four times higher than the effect of happiness on engaging in sports.		Univ Basel, Econ, Basel, Switzerland; [Frey, Bruno S.; Gullo, Anthony] Ctr Res Econ Management & Arts, CREMA, Sudstr 11, Zurich, Switzerland; [Frey, Bruno S.] Ctr Res Econ Management & Arts, CREMA, Sudstr 11, Zurich, Switzerland; [Frey, Bruno S.] Univ Basel, Peter Merian Weg 6, Basel, Switzerland								23							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000610312900001	86	Article; Article		
J	Bernick, Charles; Hansen, Tucker; Ng, Winnie; Williams, Vernon; Goodman, Margaret; Nalepa, Bryce; Shan, Guogen; Seifert, Tad								Concussion occurrence and recognition in professional boxing and MMA matches: toward a concussion protocol in combat sports								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				49	4			469	475		10.1080/00913847.2020.1856631			OCT 2 2021	2021	Objectives: Determine, through video reviews, how often concussions occur in combat sport matches, what influence they have on the outcome, and how well non-physician personnel can be trained to recognize concussions. Methods: This is a retrospective video analysis by an 8-person panel of 60 professional fights (30 boxing and 30 mixed martial arts). Through video review, physician and non-physician personnel recorded details about each probable concussion and determined if and when they would have stopped the fight compared to the official stoppage time. Results: A concussion was recorded in 47/60 fights. The mean number of concussions per minute of fight time was 0.061 (0.047 for boxers and 0.085 for MMA). When stratifying by outcome of the bout, the mean number of concussions per minute for the winner was 0.010 compared to the loser at 0.111 concussions per minute. The fighter that sustained the first concussion ultimately lost 98% of the time. The physician and non-physician raters had high agreement regarding the number of concussions that occurred to each fighter per match. The physician raters judged that 24 of the 60 fights (11 boxing [37%]; 13 MMA [43%]) should have been stopped sooner than what occurred. Conclusion: Recognizing that the concussions often occur in combat sport matches, that the losing fighter almost always is concussed first and tends to sustain more concussions during the fight, along with the demonstration that non-physician personnel can be taught to recognize concussion, may guide policy changes that improve brain health in combat sports.		[Bernick, Charles; Ng, Winnie; Goodman, Margaret] Cleveland Clin, Neurol Inst, Las Vegas, NV 89106 USA; [Bernick, Charles] Univ Washington, Dept Neurol, Seattle, DC USA; [Hansen, Tucker] Yale Univ, New Haven, CT USA; [Williams, Vernon] Cedars Sinai Kerlan Jobe Inst, Ctr Sports Neurol, Los Angeles, CA USA; [Nalepa, Bryce] Banner Hlth, Concuss & Sports Med Ctr, Phoenix, AZ USA; [Shan, Guogen] UNLV, Sch Publ Hlth, Las Vegas, NV USA; [Seifert, Tad] Norton Healthcare, Dept Neurol, Louisville, KY USA; [Bernick, Charles] Cleveland Clin, Neurol Inst, Las Vegas, NV 89106 USA								25							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000604008500001	29	Article; Article		
J	Garner, Sara; Wicke, Jason; Legreaux, Samantha; Chianchiano, Ben								Effects of deceleration-focused exercise strategies on shoulder range of motion and throwing velocity in baseball and softball athletes								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				20	1			86	95		10.1080/14763141.2018.1556325			JAN 2 2021	2021	This study examined the effects of deceleration-focused exercises on shoulder range of motion and throwing velocity in both softball and baseball players. Volunteers included 28 Division III William Paterson University baseball and softball athletes (18 females and 10 males), who were evenly distributed across two groups both undertaking 14 sessions of either resistance band or handheld medicine ball exercises (band vs. ball group). A pre-test and post-test measured participants' best active internal/external shoulder rotation and best throwing velocity at a target 40 ft away. A two-tailed, independent t-test showed no significant differences in velocity, internal rotation or external rotation (p < 0.01) between the band and ball groups. However, the average change in velocity in the ball group was double that of the band group (1.50 +/- 2.06 m/s versus 0.73 +/- 2.24 m/s). For change in both internal and external rotation the band group (2.86 +/- 5.27 degrees and 3.29 +/- 3.87 degrees, respectively) was greater than the ball mean (1.93 degrees +/- 3.32 degrees and 1.29 +/- 6.52 degrees, respectively). These findings suggest that overhead athletes aiming to increase throwing velocity can benefit from performing deceleration training with weighted balls whereas resistance bands appear to improve shoulder rotation.		[Garner, Sara; Wicke, Jason; Legreaux, Samantha; Chianchiano, Ben] William Paterson Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Wayne, NJ 07470 USA; [Wicke, Jason] William Paterson Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Wayne, NJ 07470 USA								4							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000608282500006	33	Article; Article		
J	De Jesus, Karla; De Jesus, Kelly; Goncalves, Pedro; Vasconcelos, Maria Olga; Medeiros, Alexandre Igor Araripe; Carvalho, Diogo Antonio Duarte; Fernandes, Ricardo J.; Vilas-Boas, Joao Paulo								Lateral kinetic proficiency and asymmetry in backstroke start performed with horizontal and vertical handgrips								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				20	1			71	85		10.1080/14763141.2018.1522368			JAN 2 2021	2021	We aimed to compare preferred, non-preferred, hand, foot kinetics and their asymmetry in two backstroke start variants. Complementarily, asymmetries were correlated to the resultant take-off velocity. Nine swimmers completed four 15 m backstroke starts with horizontal handgrips and four with vertical handgrips on an instrumented block (right, left hand, foot forces and impulse, normalised to swimmers' weight and time). We applied handedness and footedness questionnaires. Preferred hand and foot depicted a very and most likely moderate to large increase on horizontal force before hands-off (-0.51 +/- 0.10; -0.47 +/- 0.10; 0.87 +/- 0.15; 0.90 +/- 0.18 (N/N)) and a very and most likely large to very large increase on horizontal impulse (-0.28 +/- 0.05; -0.26 +/- 0.04; 0.50 +/- 0.03; 0.51 +/- 0.04 (N/N)*(s/s)) in both variants. Non-preferred hand and foot showed a very likely large to moderate increase (95% to 99%) on vertical and lateral impulse (0.30 +/- 0.03; 0.31 +/- 0.03; 0.07 +/- 0.04; 0.05 +/- 0.03 (N/N)*(s/s)) in both variants. The horizontal handgrip demonstrated likely moderate greater horizontal forces asymmetry on hands in the starting signal (-20.39 +/- 7.16 (N/N), 92%), before hands-off (-71.46 +/- 24.48 (N/N), 90%) and impulse asymmetry (-21.13 +/- 5.80 (N/N), 94%). Asymmetry and resultant take-off velocity in both variants were strongly associated (r = -0.733 and -0.833 for feet horizontal impulse). Kinetics lateralisation was noticed in backstroke start and asymmetry hampers desirable performance.		[De Jesus, Karla; De Jesus, Kelly; Goncalves, Pedro; Vasconcelos, Maria Olga; Carvalho, Diogo Antonio Duarte; Fernandes, Ricardo J.; Vilas-Boas, Joao Paulo] Univ Porto, Fac Sport, Ctr Res Educ Innovat & Intervent Sport, Porto, Portugal; [De Jesus, Karla; De Jesus, Kelly; Goncalves, Pedro; Carvalho, Diogo Antonio Duarte; Fernandes, Ricardo J.; Vilas-Boas, Joao Paulo] Univ Porto, Porto Biomech Lab, Porto, Portugal; [De Jesus, Karla; De Jesus, Kelly] Univ Fed Amazonas, Fac Phys Educ & Physiotherapy, Human Performance Studies Lab, Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil; [De Jesus, Karla; De Jesus, Kelly] Univ Fed Amazonas, Fac Phys Educ & Physiotherapy, Human Motor Behav Studies Lab, Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil; [Medeiros, Alexandre Igor Araripe] Univ Fed Ceara, Inst Phys Educ & Sport, Ctr Biodynam Human Movement Res, Fortaleza, Ceara, Brazil; [De Jesus, Karla] Univ Porto, Fac Sport, Ctr Res Educ Innovat & Intervent Sport, Porto, Portugal; [De Jesus, Karla] Univ Porto, Porto Biomech Lab, Porto, Portugal; [De Jesus, Karla] Univ Fed Amazonas, Fac Phys Educ & Physiotherapy, Human Performance Studies Lab, Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil; [De Jesus, Karla] Univ Fed Amazonas, Fac Phys Educ & Physiotherapy, Human Motor Behav Studies Lab, Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil								7							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000608282500005	36	Article; Article		
J	Altimari, Juliana Melo; Altimari, Leandro Ricardo; Bortolotti, Henrique; Ferreira Junior, Adalberto; Gabardo, Juliano Moro; Buzzachera, Cosme Franklim; Frisselli, Ariobaldo; de Moraes, Antonio Carlos								The Relative Age Effect on Anthropometry, Body Composition, Biological Maturation and Motor Performance in Young Brazilian Soccer Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				77	1			147	157		10.2478/HUKIN-2021-0017			JAN 2021	2021	The present study aimed to investigate the influence of months of birth on anthropometry, body composition, biological maturation, and motor performance in young Brazilian soccer players. Young Brazilian soccer players from the Under-13 (n = 50; 13.6 +/- 0.3 years), Under-15 (n = 50; 15.5 +/- 0.4 years), and Under-17 categories (n = 46; 17.7 +/- 0.3 years) took part in this study. Athletes were divided according to chronological age, 1st tertile (January to April); 2nd tertile (May to August); and 3rd tertile (September to December). Anthropometry, body composition, biological maturation, and motor performance variables were evaluated for all participants. There were no differences between the U-13, U-15, and U-17 categories regarding birth tertiles (p > 0.05). Differences between the ages and birth tertiles were observed for the stature, body mass, and lean body mass (p < 0.05). Moreover, differences were found in maturational status between the ages and birth tertiles (p < 0.05). In general, U-13 players showed lower values compared to U-15 and U-17 players in tests of motor performance. In addition, there was a difference in motor performance between the birth tertiles only for RSA variables. The months of birth influenced the stature, body mass, lean body mass, and repeated sprint ability in the U-13 and U-15 categories. Thus, care should be taken during the process of talent selection, as many young players could be underestimated due to their date of birth.		[Altimari, Juliana Melo; Altimari, Leandro Ricardo; Bortolotti, Henrique; Ferreira Junior, Adalberto; Gabardo, Juliano Moro; Buzzachera, Cosme Franklim; Frisselli, Ariobaldo; de Moraes, Antonio Carlos] Univ Estadual Londrina, Phys Educ & Sport Ctr, Grp Study & Res Neuromuscular Syst & Exercise, Rd Celso Garcia Cid,PR 445 Km 380, BR-86051990 Londrina, Parana, Brazil; [Buzzachera, Cosme Franklim] Univ Pavia, Dept Publ Hlth Expt & Forens Med, Pavia, Italy; [de Moraes, Antonio Carlos] Univ Estadual Campinas, Sch Phys Educ, Campinas, Brazil; [Altimari, Juliana Melo] Univ Estadual Londrina, Phys Educ & Sport Ctr, Grp Study & Res Neuromuscular Syst & Exercise, Rd Celso Garcia Cid,PR 445 Km 380, BR-86051990 Londrina, Parana, Brazil								17							Sport Sciences	WOS:000625103300014	36	Article; Article		
J	Figueira, Bruno; Goncalves, Bruno; Abade, Eduardo; Paulauskas, Rutenis; Masiulis, Nerijus; Kamarauskas, Paulius; Sampaio, Jaime								Repeated Sprint Ability in Elite Basketball Players: The Effects of 10 x 30 m Vs. 20 x 15 m Exercise Protocols on Physiological Variables and Sprint Performance								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				77	1			181	189		10.2478/hukin-2020-0048			JAN 2021	2021	Team sports players are required to perform repeated bouts of short-term high-intensity actions during the games. The present study aimed to examine the effects of a novel repeated sprint ability protocol (20x15 m) and compare it with the impact of a more traditional repeated sprint ability protocol (10x30 m). Twelve male elite Lithuanian basketball players (age 21.0 +/- 2.0 y, body height 1.90 +/- 0,07 m, body mass 86.2 +/- 5.8 kg and training experience 12.0 +/- 1.9 y) competing in the Lithuanian National Basketball Championship participated in this study. Participants completed three bouts of each repeated sprint protocol interspersed with 5 minutes of recovery. Results showed that the 20x15 m protocol caused a significant decrease in total sprint time (most likely; mean changes (%) with +/- 90% of confidence limits, -9.4%; +/- 0.7%) and a large decrease in blood lactate (most likely, -39.2%; +/- 12.8%) compared to the 10x30 m protocol. Despite small differences, the fatigue index presented a similar trend (possibly decrease, -23.7%; +/- 38.8%). The exercise heart rate showed a very similar trend with trivial differences between the two protocols. The 20x15 m protocol presented a lower heart rate during recovery with small magnitude. Overall, the present study showed that the 20x15 m protocol seemed to be more representative of the specific basketball demands. Coaches should be aware that RSA training during the in-season may be an adequate stimulus to improve high-intensity runs and muscle power in high-level players.		[Figueira, Bruno; Paulauskas, Rutenis; Masiulis, Nerijus; Kamarauskas, Paulius] Lithuanian Sports Univ, Fac Sport Biomed, Sporto G 6, LT-44221 Kaunas, Lithuania; [Figueira, Bruno; Abade, Eduardo; Sampaio, Jaime] CIDESD, CreativeLab Res Community, Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev, Vila Real, Portugal; [Goncalves, Bruno] Univ Evora, Dept Desporto & Saude, Escola Ciencias & Tecnol, Evora, Portugal; [Goncalves, Bruno] Univ Evora, Comprehens Hlth Res Ctr CHRC, Evora, Portugal; [Abade, Eduardo] Univ Inst Maia, ISMAI, Maia, Portugal; [Paulauskas, Rutenis] Vytautas Magnus Univ, Educ Acad, Kaunas, Lithuania; [Sampaio, Jaime] Univ Tras Os Montes & Alto Douro, Sport Sci Dept, Vila Real, Portugal; [Figueira, Bruno] Lithuanian Sports Univ, Fac Sport Biomed, Sporto G 6, LT-44221 Kaunas, Lithuania								21							Sport Sciences	WOS:000625103300017	46	Article; Article		
J	Chae, Jin Seok; Park, Jin; So, Wi-Young								Victory Prediction of Ladies Professional Golf Association Players: Influential Factors and Comparison of Prediction Models								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				77	1			245	259		10.2478/hukin-2021-0023			JAN 2021	2021	This study aims to identify the most accurate prediction model for the possibility of victory from the annual average data of 25 seasons (1993-2017) of the Ladies Professional Golf Association (LPGA), and to determine the importance of the predicting factors. The four prediction models considered in this study were a decision tree, discriminant analysis, logistic regression, and artificial neural network analysis. The mean difference in the classification accuracy of these models was analyzed using SPSS 22.0 software (IBM Corp., Armonk, NY, USA) and the one-way analysis of variance (ANOVA). When the prediction was based on technical variables, the most important predicting variables for determining victory were greens in regulation (GIR) and putting average (PA) in all four prediction models. When the prediction was based on the output of the technical variables, the most important predicting variable for determining victory was birdies in all four prediction models. When the prediction was based on the season outcome, the most important predicting variables for determining victory were the top 10 finish% (T10) and official money. A significant mean difference in classification accuracy was observed while performing the one-way ANOVA, and the least significant difference post-hoc test showed that artificial neural network analysis exhibited higher accuracy than the other models, especially, for larger data sizes. From the results of this study, it can be inferred that the player who wants to win the LPGA should aim to increase GIR, reduce PA, and improve driving distance and accuracy through training to increase the birdies chance at each hole, which can lead to lower average strokes and increased possibility of being within T10.		[Chae, Jin Seok] Yongin Univ, Measurement & Evaluat Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Yongin, South Korea; [Park, Jin] Seoul Womens Univ, Dept Human Movement Sci, Seoul, South Korea; [So, Wi-Young] Korea Natl Univ Transportat, Coll Humanities & Arts, Sports & Hlth Care Major, Chungju Si, South Korea; [So, Wi-Young] Korea Natl Univ Transportat, Coll Humanities & Arts, Sports & Hlth Care Major, Chungju Si, South Korea								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:000625103300022	38	Article; Article		
J	Mattes, Klaus; Wolff, Stefanie; Alizadeh, Shahab								Kinematic Stride Characteristics of Maximal Sprint Running of Elite Sprinters - Verification of the "Swing-Pull Technique"								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				77	1			15	24		10.2478/hukin-2021-0008			JAN 2021	2021	Maximum sprinting speed constitutes an optimum relation between the stride length and the step rate in addition to an appropriate sprinting technique. The kinematics of the sprint step at maximum sprinting speed have already been examined in numerous studies, without reaching a consensus. The aim of this study was to analyze the relationship between maximum sprinting speed and the stride kinematics based on the "Swing-Pull Technique". German elite sprinters (N = 26, body height = 182 +/- 6 cm, leg length 93.8 +/- 4.1 cm) were tested while performing a 30-meter flying sprint at maximum sprinting speed. The relationship between sprinting speed and kinematic variables was determined via Pearson correlation. Sprinting speed (10.1 - 11.3 m/s) correlated with stride length (r = 0.53), ground contact time (r = -0.53) and variables from the technique model: the knee angle at the end of the knee lift swing (r = 0.40), the maximum knee angle prior to backswing (r = 0.40), the hip extension angle velocity (r = 0.63), and vertical foot velocity (r = 0.77) during pre-support, the ankle angle at the take-on (r = -0.43), knee flexion (r = -0.54), and knee extension (r = -0.47) during support. The results indicate that greater stride length, smaller contact time, and the mentioned kinematic step characteristics are relevant for the production of maximum sprinting speed in athletes at an intermediate to advanced performance level. The association of sprinting speed and these features should primarily be taken into account in conditioning and technical training.		[Mattes, Klaus; Wolff, Stefanie; Alizadeh, Shahab] Univ Hamburg, Hamburg, Germany; [Mattes, Klaus] Univ Hamburg, Fac Psychol & Human Movement Sci, Inst Human Movement Sci, Turmweg 2, D-20148 Hamburg, Germany								23							Sport Sciences	WOS:000625103300002	28	Article; Article		
J	Mikel Picabea, Jon; Camara, Jesus; Yuzo Nakamura, Fabio; Yanci, Javier								Comparison of Heart Rate Variability Before and After a Table Tennis Match								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				77	1			107	115		10.2478/hukin-2021-0015			JAN 2021	2021	The aim of this study was to compare heart rate variability indices before and after a table tennis match. Sixteen males (21.86 +/- 8.34 yr, 1.73 +/- 0.08 m, 64.09 +/- 13.39 kg and 21.46 +/- 4.38 kg.m(-2)) were evaluated in 21 matches, before and after the match. We observed that in time domain analysis, Mean RR, SDNN, LnRMSSD and pNN50 after match values were significantly lower than before match values (p < 0.01 or p < 0.05), while Mean HR, Min HR and Max HR values were higher (p < 0.01) after than before the match, with no significant differences (p > 0.05) in STD HR. Meanwhile, frequency domain analysis showed LF Power (log), HF Power (log) and HF Power (in normalized units) after match values significantly lower than before match values (p < 0.01 or p < 0.05), while LF/HF value was higher after the match (p < 0.01), with no significant differences (p > 0.05) in LF Power (ms(2)), LF Power (in normalized units) and HF Power (ms(2)) values. Non-linear analysis showed SD1 and SD2 POST values significantly lower than PRE values (p < 0.05), while no significant differences were observed in SD2/SD1 value between POST and PRE analysis. As conclusion, due to the physiological strain of the table tennis match, changes were observed in heart rate variability values, suggesting an increase of sympathetic influence and a reduction of the parasympathetic influence.		[Mikel Picabea, Jon] Univ Basque Country, UPV EHU, Fac Educ & Sport, Lasarte 71, Vitoria 01007, Spain; [Camara, Jesus; Yuzo Nakamura, Fabio; Yanci, Javier] Univ Basque Country, UPV EHU, Fac Educ & Sport, Soc Sports & Phys Exercise Res Grp GIKAFIT, Lasarte 71, Vitoria 01007, Spain; Associate Grad Program Phys Educ UPE UFPB, Joao Pessoa, Paraiba, Brazil; [Yanci, Javier] Univ Basque Country, UPV EHU, Fac Educ & Sport, Lasarte 71, Vitoria 01007, Spain								12							Sport Sciences	WOS:000625103300010	32	Article; Article		
J	Abrantes, Catarina; Martins, Susana; Pereira, Ana; Policarpo, Fernando; Machado, Isabel; Sousa, Nelson								Physiological Exercise and Post-Exercise Effects of Inverse Sequences of Combined Bench-Step Aerobics and Resistance Exercise								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				77	1			61	70		10.2478/hukin-2021-0011			JAN 2021	2021	The purpose of this study was to compare the effects of using inverse sequences of combined bench-step aerobics and resistance exercise on cardiorespiratory, hemodynamic and perceptual variables during exercise and one-hour postexercise. The tested sequences were bench-step aerobics immediately before and immediately after resistance exercise. Thirteen apparently healthy and physically active women (age = 21.9 +/- 6.1 years, body height = 160 +/- 0.1 cm, body mass = 58.8 +/- 7.5 kg, estimated fat mass = 17.2 +/- 2.0% and estimated maximal oxygen uptake = 37.5 +/- 2.6 mL.kg-1.min-1) performed a 20-minute bench-step aerobics routine, immediately before (STEP_RES) and after (RES_STEP) resistance exercise. Oxygen uptake and heart rate were continuously measured, systolic and diastolic blood pressure, body temperature and perceived exertion were measured at rest, immediately after each type of exercise and at 15, 30, 45 and 60 min after exercise. When resistance exercise was performed first (RES_STEP), oxygen uptake was higher (23.2 +/- 3.9 vs. 20.5 +/- 4.8 mL.kg-1.min-1), but the heart rate (164.5 +/- 9.1 vs. 173.9 +/- 11.7 bpm) and body temperature (36.5 +/- 0.4 vs. 37.6 +/- 0.6 QC) were lower. In both sequences, the type of exercise performed first was pointed out with a lower perceived exertion or lower perceived intensity. Exercise and 60-min post-exercise blood pressure had a similar response in both sequences, and systolic blood pressure along with diastolic blood pressure were lower than pre-exercise from 30 min until 60 min post-exercise. The results suggest that the sequence affected oxygen uptake and perceived exertion during exercise and that this total workload, despite the sequence, promoted a post-exercise blood pressure decrease in normotensive participants.		[Abrantes, Catarina; Martins, Susana; Pereira, Ana; Machado, Isabel; Sousa, Nelson] CIDESD, GERON Res Community, Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev, P-5001801 Vila Real, Portugal; [Abrantes, Catarina; Sousa, Nelson] Univ Tras Os Montes & Alto Douro, Exercise & Hlth Dept, Vila Real, Portugal; [Pereira, Ana] Polytech Inst Setubal, Sch Educ, Res Community, Setubal, Portugal; [Policarpo, Fernando] Univ Fed Rio de Janeiro, Fac Integradas Patos, Lab Biosci Human Movement, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil; [Abrantes, Catarina] CIDESD, GERON Res Community, Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev, P-5001801 Vila Real, Portugal; [Abrantes, Catarina] Univ Tras Os Montes & Alto Douro, Sport Sci Exercise & Hlth Dept, P-5001801 Vila Real, Portugal								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:000625103300006	31	Article; Article		
J	Sanchez-Sixto, Alberto; Harrison, Andrew J.; Floria, Pablo								Effects of Plyometric vs. Combined Plyometric Training on Vertical Jump Biomechanics in Female Basketball Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				77	1			25	35		10.2478/hukin-2021-0009			JAN 2021	2021	The purpose of this study was to assess and compare the effects of plyometric training and combined training programs on vertical jump kinematics and kinetics of female basketball players. Thirty-six female basketball players were included in the study and further divided into three groups: plyometric training, n = 11; combined training n =13; and a control group, n =12. Combined training comprised full squat exercise with low resistance (50-65% 1RM) and low volume (3-6 repetitions/set) combined with repeated jumps. Plyometric training included drop jumps and repeated jumps. Both training methods showed a moderate increase in jump performance, although combined training achieved substantially higher values than plyometric training alone. After plyometric training, the vertical velocity and displacement of the center of mass of the countermovement jump increased, while force variables decreased. Combined training increased power, vertical velocity and displacement of the center of mass, but force variables remained unchanged. Both training methods improved jump height, velocity and displacement of the center of mass. Combined training maintained force measures while plyometric training decreased them. These results indicate that combined training might provide better outcomes on jump performance than plyometric training alone. It also appears important to measure biomechanical variables to appropriately interpret the effects of different training methods.		[Sanchez-Sixto, Alberto] CEU San Pablo Cardenal Spinola Univ, Sport Dept, Campus Univ CEU Andalucia, Bormujos 41930, Sevilla, Spain; [Harrison, Andrew J.] Univ Limerick, Biomech Res Unit, Limerick, Ireland; [Floria, Pablo] Univ Pablo de Olavide, Phys Performance & Sports Res Ctr, Seville, Spain; [Sanchez-Sixto, Alberto] CEU San Pablo Cardenal Spinola Univ, Sport Dept, Campus Univ CEU Andalucia, Bormujos 41930, Sevilla, Spain								34							Sport Sciences	WOS:000625103300003	35	Article; Article		
J	Torvik, Per-Oyvind; Persson, Johan; van den Tillaar, Roland								The Effects of Sub-Technique and Pole Length on Classic Roller Skiing Performance and Physiological Responses at Steep Uphill Inclination								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				77	1			97	105		10.2478/hukin-2021-0014			JAN 2021	2021	The aims of this study were to compare performance with physiological and perceptual responses on steep uphill inclines between double poling and diagonal stride and to investigate the effects of pole length when double poling. Eight male, competitive cross-country skiers (22 +/- 1.1 yrs, peak oxygen uptake (VO2peak) in the diagonal stride: 69.4 +/- 5.5 ml.kg(-1).min(-1)) performed four identical tests, one in the diagonal stride, and three in double poling with different pole lengths (self-selected, self-selected -5 cm and self-selected +10 cm). Each test was conducted at a fixed speed (10 km/h), with inclination rising by 1%, starting with 7%, each until voluntary exhaustion. VO2peak, the heart rate, blood lactate concentration, and the rating of perceived exertion were determined for each pole length in each test. The peak heart rate (p < 0.001) and VO2peak (p = 0.004) were significantly higher in the diagonal stride test compared with double poling with all pole lengths. Time to exhaustion (TTE) differed significantly between all four conditions (all p < 0.001), with the following order from the shortest to the longest TTE: short poles, normal poles and long poles in double poling, and the diagonal stride. Consequently, a significantly higher slope inclination was reached (p < 0.001) using the diagonal stride (17%) than for double poling with long poles (14%), normal (13%) and short (13%) poles. The current study showed better performance and higher VO2peak in the diagonal stride compared to double poling in steep uphill terrain, demonstrating the superiority of the diagonal stride for uphill skiing. However, in double poling, skiers achieved improved performance due to greater skiing efficiency when using long poles, compared to normal and short poles.		[Torvik, Per-Oyvind; Persson, Johan] Nord Univ, Dept Sports Sci & Phys Educ, N-7530 Meraker, Norway; [van den Tillaar, Roland] Nord Univ, Dept Sports Sci & Phys Educ, Levanger, Norway; [Torvik, Per-Oyvind] Nord Univ, Dept Sports Sci & Phys Educ, N-7530 Meraker, Norway								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:000625103300009	22	Article; Article		
J	Zabaloy, Santiago; Giraldez, Julian; Gazzo, Federico; Villaseca-Vicuna, Rodrigo; Galvez Gonzalez, Javier								In-Season Assessment of Sprint Speed and Sprint Momentum in Rugby Players According to the Age Category and Playing Position								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				77	1			274	286		10.2478/hukin-2021-0025			JAN 2021	2021	The purpose of this study was to investigate the interval in which male rugby union players reach maximum speed in a 50 m sprint according to age categories and playing positions. This study also aimed to establish the optimal distance for the assessment of sprint speed and to compare the differences in anthropometrics, sprint and sprint momentum according to the age and playing position. Three hundred amateur rugby players performed anthropometric and physical fitness tests (10, 20, 30, 40 and 50 m sprint times, acceleration, velocity, and sprint momentum) during the in-season period. Participants from different age categories (under 14's (U14), under 16's (U16), under 18's (U18) and Seniors) and positions (forwards and backs) volunteered to participate in this study. Results revealed that most of the U14 and U16 players (58.2% and 55.3%, respectively) reached maximum speed in the interval between 20 and 30 m with lower sprint speed than U18 players and Seniors (44% and 49%, respectively). Comparisons between each interval showed significant differences for all U14 and U16 forwards, suggesting the fastest interval was between 20-30 m. No significant differences were found for U16 backs, U18 and Seniors, between sprint times in the 20-30 m and 30-40 m intervals. In addition, between-group comparisons, demonstrated significant (p < 0.001) differences in U14 when compared to U16, U18 and Seniors in anthropometric variables, sprint times and sprint momentum. In conclusion, this study suggests that the optimal distance for the assessment of sprint speed of rugby players is 30 m and that body mass, sprint momentum and sprint speed clearly discriminate between players of different age categories and playing positions.		[Zabaloy, Santiago; Giraldez, Julian] Univ Flores, Fac Phys Act & Sports, Buenos Aires, DF, Argentina; [Zabaloy, Santiago; Giraldez, Julian; Gazzo, Federico; Villaseca-Vicuna, Rodrigo; Galvez Gonzalez, Javier] Pablo de Olavide Univ, Fac Sports Sci, Seville, Spain; [Zabaloy, Santiago] Univ Flores, Fac Phys Act & Sports, Buenos Aires, DF, Argentina; [Zabaloy, Santiago] Pablo de Olavide Univ, Fac Sports Sci, Seville, Spain								24							Sport Sciences	WOS:000625103300024	30	Article; Article		
J	Chalatzoglidis, George; Arabatzi, Fotini; Christou, Evangelos A.								Motor Control and Achilles Tendon Adaptation in Adolescence: Effects of Sport Participation and Maturity								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				76	1			101	116		10.2478/hukin-2021-0003			JAN 2021	2021	An important but unresolved research question in adolescent children is the following: "Does sport participation interact with maturation to change motor control and the mechanical and morphological properties of tendons?" Here, we address this important research question with a longitudinal study around the age of peak height velocity (PI-IV). Our purpose was to characterize the interactive effects of maturation and sports participation on motor control and the mechanical and morphological properties of the Achilles tendon (AT) in adolescent athletes and nonathletes. Twenty-two adolescent athletes (13.1 +/- 1.1 years) and 19 adolescent non-athletes (12.8 +/- 1.1 years) volunteered for this study. We quantified motor control as the coefficient of variation of torque during a ramp task. In addition, we quantified the AT morphological and mechanical properties using ultrasonography from 18 months before to 12 months after PHV. We found that motor control improved with maturation in both athletes and non-athletes. We found that athletes have a greater increase in body mass with maturation that relates to greater plantarflexion peak force and AT peak stress. Also, athletes have a thicker and longer AT, as assessed with resting cross-sectional area and length. Although the rate of increase in the morphological change with maturation was similar for athletes and nonathletes, the rate of increase in normalized AT stiffness was greater for athletes. This increased AT stiffness in athletes related to peak force and stress. In summary, maturation improves motor control in adolescent children. Further, we provide novel longitudinal evidence that sport participation interacts with maturation in adolescents to induce adaptive effects on the Achilles tendon morphology and mechanical properties. These findings have the potential to minimize the risk of injuries and maximize athletic development in talented adolescents.		[Chalatzoglidis, George; Arabatzi, Fotini] Aristotle Univ Thessaloniki, Dept Phys Educ & Sports Sci Serres, Serres, Greece; [Christou, Evangelos A.] Univ Florida, Dept Appl Physiol & Kinesiol, Gainesville, FL 32611 USA; [Christou, Evangelos A.] Univ Florida, Dept Neurol, Gainesville, FL 32611 USA; [Christou, Evangelos A.] Univ Florida, Dept Appl Physiol & Kinesiol, Gainesville, FL 32611 USA; [Christou, Evangelos A.] Univ Florida, Dept Neurol, Gainesville, FL 32611 USA; [Chalatzoglidis, George; Arabatzi, Fotini] Aristotle Univ Thessaloniki, Lab Neuromech, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Serres 62110, Agios Ioannis, Greece								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:000625098000008	55	Article; Article		
J	Mravcsik, Mariann; Botzheim, Lilla; Zentai, Norbert; Piovesan, Davide; Laczko, Jozsef								The Effect of Crank Resistance on Arm Configuration and Muscle Activation Variances in Arm Cycling Movements								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				76	1			175	189		10.2478/hukin-2021-0053			JAN 2021	2021	Arm cycling on an ergometer is common in sports training and rehabilitation protocols. The hand movement is constrained along a circular path, and the user is working against a resistance, maintaining a cadence. Even if the desired hand trajectory is given, there is the flexibility to choose patterns of joint coordination and muscle activation, given the kinematic redundancy of the upper limb. With changing external load, motor noise and changing joint stiffness may affect the pose of the arm even though the endpoint trajectory is unchanged. The objective of this study was to examine how the crank resistance influences the variances of joint configuration and muscle activation. Fifteen healthy participants performed arm cranking on an arm-cycle ergometer both unimanually and bimanually with a cadence of 60 rpm against three crank resistances. Joint configuration was represented in a 3-dimensional joint space defined by inter-segmental joint angles, while muscle activation in a 4-dimensional "muscle activation space" defined by EMGs of 4 arm muscles. Joint configuration variance in the course of arm cranking was not affected by crank resistance, whereas muscle activation variance was proportional to the square of muscle activation. The shape of the variance time profiles for both joint configuration and muscle activation was not affected by crank resistance. Contrary to the prevailing assumption that an increased motor noise would affect the variance of auxiliary movements, the influence of noise doesn't appear at the joint configuration level even when the system is redundant. Our results suggest the separation of kinematic- and force-control, via mechanisms that are compensating for dynamic nonlinearities. Arm cranking may be suitable when the aim is to perform training under different load conditions, preserving stable and secure control of joint movements and muscle activations.		[Mravcsik, Mariann; Botzheim, Lilla; Laczko, Jozsef] Wigner Res Ctr Phys, Dept Computat Sci, H-1121 Budapest, Hungary; [Mravcsik, Mariann; Botzheim, Lilla; Zentai, Norbert; Laczko, Jozsef] Univ Pecs, Fac Sci, Dept Informat Technol & Biorobot, H-7624 Pecs, Hungary; [Piovesan, Davide] Gannon Univ, Dept Biomed Ind & Syst Engn, Erie, PA 16501 USA; [Laczko, Jozsef] Northwestern Univ, Dept Physiol, Feinberg Sch Med, Chicago, IL USA; [Laczko, Jozsef] Univ Pecs, Fac Sci, Inst Math & Informat, Dept Informat Technol & Biorobot, 6 Ifjusag St, H-7624 Pecs, Hungary								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:000625098000013	38	Article; Article		
J	Latash, Mark L.								Production and Perception of Intentional and Unintentional Actions								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				76	1			51	66		10.2478/hukin-2020-0086			JAN 2021	2021	Physical approach to biological movement is based on the idea of control with referent spatial coordinates for effectors, from the whole body to single muscles. Within this framework, neural control signals induce changes in parameters of corresponding biology-specific laws of nature, and motor performance emerges as a result of interaction with the external force field. This approach is naturally compatible with the principle of abundance and the uncontrolled manifold hypothesis, which offer the framework for analysis of movement stability. The presence of two basic commands, reciprocal and co-activation, makes even single-effector tasks abundant and allows stabilizing their performance at the control level. Kinesthetic perception can be viewed as the process of estimating afferent signals within a reference system provided by the efferent process. Percepts are reflections of stable iso-perceptual manifolds in the combined afferent-efferent multi-dimensional space. This approach offers new, logical and based on laws of nature, interpretations for such phenomena as muscle co-activation, unintentional drifts in performance, and vibration-induced kinesthetic illusions. It also allows predicting new phenomena such as counter-intuitive effects of muscle co-activation of force production and perception, vibration-induced force illusions, performance drifts at two different speeds, and high variability in matching the contribution of individual elements in multi-element tasks. This approach can be developed for various subfields of movement studies including studies of athletics, movement disorders, and movement rehabilitation.		[Latash, Mark L.] Penn State Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Rec Hall 268N, University Pk, PA 16802 USA; [Latash, Mark L.] Penn State Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Rec Hall 268N, University Pk, PA 16802 USA								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:000625098000004	84	Article; Article		
J	Morrison, Gus; Ben Ashworth; Taylor-Kaveney, Terassa								The validity of the sphygmomanometer for shoulder strength assessment in amateur rugby union players								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				47				59	65		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.10.013			JAN 2021	2021	Objectives: To determine the concurrent validity of a sphygmomanometer for assessing shoulder strength in the I, Y and T positions during the athletic shoulder test (ASH test). Force platforms were used as the gold standard measurement tool for this purpose. Design: Shoulder strength was assessed using force platforms and a sphygmomanometer, both placed on the floor and the participant positioned prone. One rater assessed strength, taking three measurements in each of the I, Y and T positions, using the sphygmomanometer and force platforms. Concurrent validity was calculated using the force platforms as the gold standard device. Setting: Data was collected within the treatment room of an amateur rugby club. Participants: Twenty male amateur rugby players (25.15 years old +/- 3.27 years) were recruited for this study. Main outcome measures: Peak force across the shoulder girdle was assessed using the force platforms and sphygmomanometer which provided values in Newtons (N) and millimetres of mercury (mmHg) respectively. Results: Results showed high concurrent validity (Pearsons r = 0.76-0.81) between the sphygmo-manometer and the force platform. Coefficient of determination (r(2) = 0.59-0.67) showed the sphygmomanometer to have a valid predictive model in the I, Y and T positions. Conclusions: The sphygmomanometer is suitable for monitoring force transfer across the shoulder during the ASH test, and is able to quantify peak force in mmHg. The sphygmomanometer enables coaches and clinicians to accurately quantify force production across the shoulder girdle in order to screen and monitor players at a low cost. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Morrison, Gus; Ben Ashworth; Taylor-Kaveney, Terassa] Inst Sport Exercise & Hlth, 170 Tottenham Court Rd, London W1T 7HA, England; [Morrison, Gus] Inst Sport Exercise & Hlth, 170 Tottenham Court Rd, London W1T 7HA, England								9							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000604961500010	32	Article; Article		
J	Tretriluxana, Jarugool; Nanbancha, Ampika; Sinsurin, Komsak; Limroongreungrat, Weerawat; Wang, Hsing-Kuo								Neuromuscular control of the ankle during pre-landing in athletes with chronic ankle instability: Insights from statistical parametric mapping and muscle co-contraction analysis								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				47				46	52		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.11.023			JAN 2021	2021	Objective: The present study aimed to compare the neuromuscular control of the muscles around the ankle between athletes with CAI and without history of any ankle sprain (Non-CAI) by using statistic parametric mapping (SPM) and co-contraction analyses. Design: Cross-sectional study; Setting: Laboratory; Participants: 40 athletes (20 CAI, 20 Non-CAI) were pair-matched for age and gender. Main outcome measures: Neuromuscular control was examined using surface electromyography (EMG) amplitude and muscle co-contraction 200 ms before foot-contact with the ground during a jump-landing task. Results: The EMG amplitude of tibialis anterior, peroneus longus, and gastrocnemius medialis were analyzed using statistic parametric mapping. The CAI group exhibited decreased EMG amplitude of peroneus longus during preparation for foot-contact. There were no significant co-contraction differences between groups. Conclusions: Our findings demonstrate that SPM combined with the co-contraction provides a comprehensive EMG analysis to detect the differences of neuromuscular control between athletes with and without chronic ankle instability. Additionally, this finding indicates that CAI contributed to altered neuromuscular control during the pre-landing phase, which may contribute to re-injury mechanisms. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Tretriluxana, Jarugool; Nanbancha, Ampika; Sinsurin, Komsak] Mahidol Univ, Fac Phys Therapy, 999 Phuttamonthon 4 Rd, Salaya 73170, Nakhon Pathom, Thailand; [Limroongreungrat, Weerawat] Mahidol Univ, Coll Sport Sci & Technol, 999 Phuttamonthon 4 Rd, Salaya 73170, Nakhon Pathom, Thailand; [Wang, Hsing-Kuo] Natl Taiwan Univ, Coll Med, Sch & Grad Inst Phys Therapy, Taiwan Room 319,Floor 3,17 Xuzhou Rd, Taipei 100, Taiwan; [Tretriluxana, Jarugool] Mahidol Univ, Fac Phys Therapy, 999 Phuttamonthon 4 Rd, Salaya 73170, Nakhon Pathom, Thailand								21							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000604961500008	48	Article; Article		
J	Porter, Kirsten N.; Talpey, Scott; Pascoe, Deborah; Blanch, Peter D.; Walker, Helen M.; Shield, Anthony J.								The effect of swimming volume and intensity on changes in supraspinatus tendon thickness								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				47				173	177		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.12.002			JAN 2021	2021	Objectives: To compare the change in supraspinatus tendon thickness (STT) following a high volume (HV) and high intensity (HI) swimming practice in shoulders of elite swimmers. Design: Cohort Study. Setting: Non-clinical, state swim team training facility. Participants: A convenience sample of eight non-injured state and national level swimmers from a regional swim team were recruited for this study. Main outcome measures: Ultrasound measures of STT were collected in response to the two swimming practice sessions. Measures were taken prior to each swim practice; immediately after practice; 6-hours post practice and 24-hours post practice. Results: A significant increase in STT resulted from both the HI and HV (p < 0.05) practice immediately post practice. For the HI practice, the STT remained significantly thicker than pre-practice measures at the 6-hour post practice test (p < 0.05) however no longer significant 24-hours post practice. The difference in the change in STT between the HI and HV practice was significantly different immediately post practice and 6-hours post practice (p < 0.05) however no longer significant 24-hour post practice. Conclusion: Ultrasound measures of STT following different swimming volumes and intensities may provide information on shoulder tendon loads. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Porter, Kirsten N.; Talpey, Scott; Pascoe, Deborah] Federat Univ Australia, Sch Sci Psychol & Sport, Ballarat, Vic, Australia; [Porter, Kirsten N.] Australian Catholic Univ, Sch Allied Hlth, Ballarat, Vic, Australia; [Blanch, Peter D.] Brisbane Lions Football Club, Sch Allied Hlth Sci, Woolloongabba, Qld, Australia; [Blanch, Peter D.] Griffith Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Sci, Gold Coast, Australia; [Walker, Helen M.] Physio4athletes, Sch Exercise & Nutr Sci, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Shield, Anthony J.] Queensland Univ Technol, Sch Exercise & Nutr Sci, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [Porter, Kirsten N.] Federat Univ, Sch Sci Psychol & Sport, Univ Dr, Mt Helen, Vic 3350, Australia								7							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000604961500025	20	Article; Article		
J	Armento, Aubrey; Albright, Jay; Gagliardi, Alexia; Daoud, Ariel Kiyomi; Howell, David; Mayer, Stephanie								Patient expectations and perceived social support related to return to sport after anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction in adolescent athletes								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				47				72	77		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.10.011			JAN 2021	2021	Objective: Examine the relationship between pre-operative competitive status and return to sport expectations post-operatively among adolescents undergoing ACL reconstruction. Assess the association between perceived levels of social support and doubts in returning to sport after ACL reconstruction. Design: Cross-sectional. Setting: Outpatient sports medicine clinic at a single institution. Participants: 12-18 years old with an ACL tear who were planning to undergo ACL reconstruction. Main outcome measures: Psychovitality questionnaire responses and Multidimensional Scale of Perceived Social Support (MSPSS) questionnaire scores. Results: 86% of participants expected to return to sports in six months or less after surgery; there was no significant difference in expected time to return to sport between competitive vs. recreational athletes. Competitive athletes were less likely to be content returning to a lower activity level after surgery compared to recreational athletes. There were no significant differences in MSPSS scores between those who did and did not report doubts in their ability to return to their previous sports. Conclusion: Most of our adolescent athlete population expected to return to sport after ACL reconstruction within six months of surgery. Those with and without doubts in their ability to return to sports did not significantly differ in levels of perceived social support. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Armento, Aubrey; Albright, Jay; Gagliardi, Alexia; Daoud, Ariel Kiyomi; Howell, David; Mayer, Stephanie] Childrens Hosp Colorado, Sports Med Ctr, Aurora, CO USA; [Armento, Aubrey; Albright, Jay; Gagliardi, Alexia; Daoud, Ariel Kiyomi; Howell, David; Mayer, Stephanie] Univ Colorado, Sch Med, Dept Orthoped, Aurora, CO USA; [Armento, Aubrey] 13123 E 16th Ave,Box 060, Aurora, CO 80045 USA								14							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000604961500012	42	Article; Article		
J	Bodkin, S. G.; Hertel, J.; Bruce, A. S.; Diduch, D. R.; Saliba, S. A.; Novicoff, W. M.; Hart, J. M.								Patient function in serial assessments throughout the post-ACL reconstruction progression								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				47				85	90		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.11.025			JAN 2021	2021	Objective: To assess the changes in patient strength and function from 4- to 6-month assessments following ACLR, determine relationships between changes in strength to changes in subjective function, and identify factors that predict patients that fail to increase in strength. Design: Prospective, Cohort Study. Setting: Controlled Laboratory. Participants: Forty-seven patients(27 female, 24.3 +/- 11.1 years) completed a battery of performance assessments at approximately 4- and 6-months following primary ACLR (4.03 +/- 0.49 and 6.46 +/- 0.68 months). Main outcome measures: Subjective scores and isokinetic knee flexor and extensor strength were compared across visits. Patients were categorized per their ability to increase in strength beyond a previously defined threshold(0.22 Nm/kg). Binary logistic regression models were used to determine predictors of patients that failed to meet strength changes. Results: Patients demonstrated improvements in patient-reported outcomes and strength measures between visits(P's < 0.05). Higher age (B = -0.073, P = .039), lower pre-injury activity levels (B = 0.61, P = .022), and higher limb symmetry indexes (B = -0.044, P = .05) at 4-months were predictors of patients that did not achieve improvements in quadriceps strength between assessments. Conclusions: From 4- to 6-months post-ACLR, increases in subjective function, strength and symmetry were observed. High quadriceps symmetry at interim assessments without consideration of the magnitude of strength values could overestimate recovery of quadriceps function. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Bodkin, S. G.; Hertel, J.; Bruce, A. S.; Saliba, S. A.; Hart, J. M.] Univ Virginia, Dept Kinesiol, Mem Gymnasium Rm 206 210 Emmet St So, Charlottesville, VA 22903 USA; [Diduch, D. R.; Hart, J. M.] Univ Virginia, Dept Orthopaed Surg, 400 Ray C Hunt Dr,Suite 330 POB 800159, Charlottesville, VA 22903 USA; [Novicoff, W. M.] Univ Virginia, Publ Hlth Sci, POB 800717,Hlth Syst West Complex,Room 3193, Charlottesville, VA 22908 USA; [Bodkin, S. G.; Bruce, A. S.] Univ Colorado, Dept Phys Med & Rehabil, Anschutz Med Campus,12631 East 17th Ave, Aurora, CO 80045 USA; [Bodkin, S. G.] Univ Colorado, Dept Phys Med & Rehabil, Anschutz Med Campus,12631 East 17th Ave, Aurora, CO 80045 USA								20							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000604961500014	34	Article; Article		
J	Kenrick-Rochon, Shannon; Quesnele, Jairus; Baldisera, Tara; Laurence, Michelle; Grenier, Sylvain								Does interprofessional concussion management improve recovery in varsity athletes? A year to year effectiveness-implementation hybrid study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				47				32	39		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.10.008			JAN 2021	2021	Objectives: The main purpose of this study was to explore the effectiveness of an integrated interprofessional management (IPM) concussion care approach in varsity athletes. Setting: The study was completed in a university environment with varsity athletes. Design: Data analysis was quantitative, as compared between seasons, in this observational cohort study. Main outcome measures: The metrics for the effectiveness of the IPM team were: time spent in treatment and post-concussion symptom severity scores. These measures were compared for each season year and both sexes for the primary concussive domain they were initially diagnosed with. Participants: University varsity athletes from various in-season teams. Results: A Kruskal-Wallis revealed that 2017/18 athletes spent a significantly shorter amount of time in treatment between the two seasons, median 29 days in the 2016/17 season year (IQR = 29) versus 13 days in the 2017/18 season year (IQR = 11), for both sexes (p = 0.009). It appears women tended to recover more quickly than men, particularly in the 2016/2017 season first year. Conclusions: A highly communicative interprofessional management (IPM) strategy was shown to lead to reduced return to play (RTP) and return to learn (RTL) times. Increased experience as an IPM team may be a factor contributing to the effectiveness in IPM strategies as well as overall concussion treatment. Crown Copyright (C) 2020 Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Kenrick-Rochon, Shannon; Quesnele, Jairus; Baldisera, Tara] Northern Ontario Sch Med, Sudbury, ON, Canada; [Laurence, Michelle; Grenier, Sylvain] Laurentian Univ, Sch Kinesiol & Hlth Sci, Sudbury, ON, Canada; [Grenier, Sylvain] Sch Human Kinet, 935 Ramsey Lake Rd, Sudbury, ON P3E 2C6, Canada								5							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000604961500006	54	Article; Article		
J	Viljoen, Carel T.; van Rensburg, Dina C. (Christa) Janse; van Rensburg, Audrey Jansen; Booysen, Evan; Chauke, Shihluke; Coetzee, Petro; Hurlimann, Amy; Jooste, Mignette; Nibe, Yoliswa; Schulenburg, Chene; Korkie, Elzette; Ramagole, Dimakatso; Grant, Catharina; Cronje, Tanita								One in four trail running race entrants sustained an injury in the 12 months training preceding the 2019 SkyRun race								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				47				120	126		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.11.029			JAN 2021	2021	Objective: To determine the epidemiology and clinical characteristics of RRIs among trail runners who entered the 2019 SkyRun races. Design: Descriptive cross-sectional study. Setting: 2019 SkyRun races. Participants: Consent for data analysis was given by 305 of 412 (74%) race entrants. Main outcome measures: Retrospective annual incidence (RRIs/1000 h), point prevalence (%), frequency (%), characteristics (anatomical region, body area, tissue type, pathology type) and injury severity (mean severity score; 95% CI) of RRIs. Results: 28.2% of participants reported at least one RRI. The retrospective annual incidence was 49.5 RRIs per 1000h and the point prevalence was 1.3%. Most injuries occurred in the lower limb (87.3%), with the knee (26.5%), ankle (21.6%), and foot (16.7%) reported as the most frequently injured body areas. Muscle/tendon accounted for 44.1% of tissue type injuries. Tendinopathy (27.5%), joint sprain (19.6%), and muscle injury (15.7%) were the most common pathology types reported. The mean injury severity score was 31.6. Conclusions: One in 4 trail runners reported at least one RRI in the 12 months leading up to a race. RRIs mostly affected the lower limb specifically the knee, ankle and foot. Future research should establish injury risk factors to ultimately develop specific injury prevention strategies. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Viljoen, Carel T.; Booysen, Evan; Chauke, Shihluke; Coetzee, Petro; Hurlimann, Amy; Jooste, Mignette; Nibe, Yoliswa; Schulenburg, Chene; Korkie, Elzette] Univ Pretoria, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Physiotherapy, Prinshof Campus, ZA-0007 Pretoria, South Africa; [Viljoen, Carel T.; van Rensburg, Dina C. (Christa) Janse; Korkie, Elzette] Univ Pretoria, Sport Exercise Med & Lifestyle Inst SEMLI, Pretoria, South Africa; [van Rensburg, Dina C. (Christa) Janse; van Rensburg, Audrey Jansen; Ramagole, Dimakatso; Grant, Catharina] Univ Pretoria, Fac Hlth Sci, Sect Sports Med, Pretoria, South Africa; [Cronje, Tanita] Univ Pretoria, Fac Nat & Agr Sci, Dept Stat, Pretoria, South Africa; [Viljoen, Carel T.] Univ Pretoria, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Physiotherapy, Prinshof Campus, ZA-0007 Pretoria, South Africa								20							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000604961500018	36	Article; Article		
J	Stellpflug, Samuel J.; Menton, William H.; LeFevere, Robert C.								Analysis of the fight-ending chokes in the history of the Ultimate Fighting Championship™ mixed martial arts promotion								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				50	1			60	63		10.1080/00913847.2020.1866958			JAN 2 2022	2022	Objective: Knowledge of sportive chokes is vital to the practice of Sports Medicine when providing care at mixed martial arts and submission grappling events. This is a descriptive analysis of fight-ending chokes to help provide data on the topic not previously presented. Methods: An analysis was done on every fight-ending choke in the history of the UFC (TM) mixed martial arts promotion. Investigators focused on the frequency of chokes, types of chokes, handedness of the chokes, and whether chokes resulted in loss of consciousness. This analysis was done using existing fight outcome reports and video analysis of every choke that ended a fight in UFC (TM) history. Results: During the study period there were 904 such chokes, comprising 15.5% of fight outcomes and 76.2% of grappling submissions. The makeup of right (50.1%) and left (49.9%) handedness of the chokes has been essentially identical (chi 2 [1] = 0.0011, p =.947, phi =.00). Most of the fight-ending chokes culminated in voluntary submission; however, 11% resulted in loss of consciousness. The rear naked choke (RNC) was significantly more frequent than other chokes, comprising 49.1% of the total choke finishes; 19 other choke types accounted for the remaining 50.9%. Conclusion: Fight-ending chokes have been common in MMA. Many types of chokes have successfully ended UFC (TM) fights, with the RNC accounting for almost half of fight-ending chokes. Loss of consciousness occurred in 11% of fight-ending chokes. Right and left handed chokes were utilized equally.		[Stellpflug, Samuel J.; LeFevere, Robert C.] Reg Hosp, Dept Emergency Med, St Paul, MN 55101 USA; [Menton, William H.] Kent State Univ, Dept Psychol Sci, Kent, OH 44242 USA; [Stellpflug, Samuel J.] Reg Hosp, Dept Emergency Med, St Paul, MN 55101 USA								12							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000603997100001	17	Article; Article		
J	Lee, Jin; Lee, Young Hoon								Development of a Win Production Function and Evaluation of Cross-Sectional Dependence								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				22	4			412	431	1527002520983438	10.1177/1527002520983438			MAY 2021	2021	We consider correlations between pairs of teams when deriving a win production function for professional baseball teams. Previous empirical studies derived win production estimates based on the assumption that the error terms were independent, but this is not reasonable given that a win is a relative output. The total number of wins per season is fixed: all teams share wins, in that a win for one team is a loss for the opponent. We applied spatial panel data models to a Major League Baseball dataset to control for cross-sectional dependence. A strong negative dependence was found; our estimates differ somewhat from previous estimates that assumed cross-sectional independence. JEL: L83, L80, Z20		[Lee, Jin; Lee, Young Hoon] Sogang Univ, Dept Econ, 1 Sinsoo Dong, Seoul 121742, South Korea; [Lee, Young Hoon] Sogang Univ, Dept Econ, 1 Sinsoo Dong, Seoul 121742, South Korea								2							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000609711600001	32	Article; Article		
J	Memari, Zhaleh; Rezaei Pandari, Abbas; Ehsani, Mohammad; Mahmudi, Shokufeh								Business management in the football industry from a supply chain management perspective								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				22	4			737	763		10.1108/IJSMS-02-2020-0025			OCT 12 2021	2021	Purpose To understand the football industry in its entirety, a supply chain management (SCM) approach is necessary. This includes the study of suppliers, consumers and their collaborations. The purpose of this study was to present a business management model based on supply chain management. Design/methodology/approach Data were collected through in-depth interviews with 12 academic and executive football experts. After three steps of open, axial and selective coding based on grounded theory with a paradigmatic approach, the data were analysed, and a football supply chain management (FSCM) was developed. The proposed model includes three managerial components: upstream suppliers, the manufacturing firm, and downstream customers. Findings The football industry sector has three parts: upstream suppliers, manufacturing firm/football clubs and downstream customers. We proposed seven parts for the managerial processes of football supply chain management: event/match management, club management, resource and infrastructure management, customer relationship management, supplier relationship management, cash flow management and knowledge and information flow management. This model can be used for configuration, coordination and redesign of business operations as well as the development of models for evaluation of the football supply chain's performance. Originality/value The proposed model of a football supply chain management, with the existing literature and theoretical review, created a synergistic outcome. This synergy is presented in the linkage of the players in this chain and interactions between them. This view can improve the management of industry productivity and improve the products quality.		[Memari, Zhaleh; Mahmudi, Shokufeh] Alzahra Univ, Sport Management, Tehran, Iran; [Rezaei Pandari, Abbas] Tarbiat Modares Univ, Ind Management, Tehran, Iran; [Ehsani, Mohammad] Tarbiat Modares Univ, Phys Educ, Tehran, Iran; [Memari, Zhaleh] Alzahra Univ, Sport Management, Tehran, Iran								10							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000604116300001	90	Article; Article		
J	DeMartini, Anne L.; Kim, Sungwon; Connaughton, Daniel P.; McArdle, David								A comparison of US and Scotland youth soccer coaches' legal consciousness regarding concussion safety regulations								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	3			554	567	1747954120981197	10.1177/1747954120981197			JUN 2021	2021	Due to the severe health consequences of sport related concussion (SRC), governments and sport governing bodies around the world have enacted numerous measures including changes to legislation and rules of the game, and increased emphasis on coach education. This study compared the legal consciousness of girls' youth soccer coaches regarding concussion management under a statutory legal regime in the U.S. and a voluntary regime in Scotland by analyzing qualitative data through ten interviews of girls' youth soccer coaches in Scotland and another ten interviews of girls' high school soccer coaches in the U.S. Utilizing the socio-legal theory of legal consciousness, the findings support the idea that people make connections from their past experiences to shape their understanding of the law, broadly defined. We observed variance between U.S. and Scottish coaches' legal consciousness. Overall, all coaches exhibited a version of conformity to and engagement with SRC management guidance and little resistance. Florida coaches displayed more conformity, likely due to the SRC education mandated by law. Scottish coaches who had coached in the U.S. previously demonstrated the strongest resistance. The findings suggest a need for continued improvement in the implementation of SRC laws and guidelines including updated training and better dissemination of educational materials.		[DeMartini, Anne L.] Flagler Coll, Sport Management Program, 74 King St, St Augustine, FL 32080 USA; [Kim, Sungwon] St Johns Univ, Div Sport Management, Collins Coll Profess Studies, Jamaica, NY 11439 USA; [Connaughton, Daniel P.] Univ Florida, Coll Hlth & Human Performance, Dept Sport Management, Gainesville, FL USA; [McArdle, David] Stirling Univ, Law & Philosophy Div, Stirling, Scotland; [DeMartini, Anne L.] Flagler Coll, Sport Management Program, 74 King St, St Augustine, FL 32080 USA								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000608781300001	62	Article; Article		
J	Paek, Bomin; Morse, Alan; Kim, Minjung; Jung, Hoyoon								Sport consumer flow and shopping well-being in online shopping								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				22	4			721	736		10.1108/IJSMS-06-2020-0116			OCT 12 2021	2021	Purpose Due to the increased growth of Internet users, the examination of compelling online shopping behavior has emerged as a vital topic in developing positive consumer behaviors. However, there is a dearth of studies into how consumers of sport merchandise in the online setting spend their time and what types of factors contribute toward their positive shopping experience. To fill this gap, the purpose of this current study is to investigate the impact and complexity of sport commerce websites by providing the precondition of flow (e.g. convenience, content, aesthetics, interactivity and customization), as well as the consequences of flow (e.g. website satisfaction and shopping well-being). Design/methodology/approach This study examines relationships among perceived website quality, flow, web satisfaction, and shopping well-being by using structural equation modeling. This current study is based on online sport fans who have recent online shopping experiences of licensed sport products (n = 331). Findings Results of this present study show that flow plays a mediating role between perceived website quality and web satisfaction, which in turn is positively associated with consumers' shopping well-being. Originality/value This current study supports a mediating role of flow state in sport consumer perceptions of website quality and satisfaction; it expands existing knowledge through determining the factors that facilitate flow state and website satisfaction in online shopping. This empirical finding offers important implications regarding the function of flow as an essential factor via the optimization of website services and sport consumers' attitudes.		[Paek, Bomin; Morse, Alan; Jung, Hoyoon] Univ Northern Colorado, Sport & Exercise Sci, Greeley, CO 80639 USA; [Kim, Minjung] Univ Mississippi, Hlth Exercise Sci & Recreat Management, University, MS 38677 USA; [Paek, Bomin] Univ Northern Colorado, Sport & Exercise Sci, Greeley, CO 80639 USA								12							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000602667400001	67	Article; Article		
J	Manske, Robert C.; Stovak, Mark; Loo, Peter; Breunig, Michael; Ellenbecker, Todd; Smith, Barbara S.								Full effort compared to partial effort performance of the tennis serve in collegiate tennis players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	3			763	767	1747954120978645	10.1177/1747954120978645			JUN 2021	2021	Interval tennis rehabilitation programs (ITRPs) are advocated during later stages of shoulder and elbow rehabilitation. ITRPs utilize gradual increases in hitting or serving effort, based on perceived effort. Over-estimation of effort may increase stress. This investigation purpose was to determine actual tennis serve velocity when asked to hit serves at perceived effort of 50%, 75%. Thirty-nine healthy college tennis players performed a warm-up of groundstrokes and serves. Five maximal effort serves (100% velocity) functioned as the 100% maximal effort serve. Then, five serves were hit at each of two randomly determined velocities. The average of five trials for maximum effort (100% velocity) was calculated. Based on this number, 75% and 50% of maximum velocity was determined. Using one-sample t-tests, the subjects' perceived efforts were compared against computed percentages. Differences were found between perceived effort and calculated percent. Overall, actual velocity served was greater than percieved. Because velocity at 100% effort was significantly different for males and females, a separate analyses was done by gender. Both males' and females' perceived velocities were significantly greater (p < .05) than the athletes' computed velocities at 75% and 50%, respectively. Perceived serve effort does not equate to actual ball velocity. A need exists to use other measures to determine effort or intensity during ITRPs. Serving at higher velocity levels early after musculoskeletal shoulder or elbow injury may increase the risk of re-injury or lack of progression. This study provides clinicians with guidance for the progression of tennis players during an interval program.		[Manske, Robert C.; Smith, Barbara S.] Wichita State Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Wichita, KS 67260 USA; [Stovak, Mark] Univ Nevada, Sch Med, Dept Family & Community Med, Reno, NV 89557 USA; [Loo, Peter] Univ Kansas Heath Syst, St Francis Campus, Topeka, KS USA; [Breunig, Michael] SSM Hlth Sports Med, Madison, WI USA; [Ellenbecker, Todd] Rehab Plus Sports Therapy & ATP Tour, Scottsdale, AZ USA; [Manske, Robert C.] Wichita State Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Wichita, KS 67260 USA								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000610568400001	13	Article; Article		
J	Arede, Jorge; Fernandes, John; Moran, Jason; Norris, Jonty; Leite, Nuno								Maturity timing and performance in a youth national basketball team: Do early-maturing players dominate?								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	3			722	730	1747954120980712	10.1177/1747954120980712			JUN 2021	2021	The aims of this study were to examine the influence of maturity timing on functional skills and game-related statistics amongst under-16 (U16) national team basketball players, and analyse which of these parameters were related to onward selection to the under-18 (U18) national team. Thirty-six U16 basketball players underwent anthropometric and overhead squat assessments during a national team training camp. Also, maturity offset (MO) was computed alongside game-related statistics during the U16 National Championship and U16 European Championship competitions. For the statistical analysis of all parameters, subjects were identified according to their maturity timing (early vs average). Sitting height, height, body mass, points scored and assists during U16 National Championship discriminated between early- and average-maturing players. Early-maturing players played significantly fewer minutes during the European Championship compared with the National Championship whilst average-maturing players scored significantly more points and performed more assists during the National Championship. Minutes played during the European Championship, and points scored during National and European Championships discriminated 'selected' from 'non-selected' players for the U18 National Team. These results encourage coaches to acknowledge the value in allowing later-maturing players the time to develop with a view to realising their full potential.		[Arede, Jorge; Leite, Nuno] Univ Tras Os Montes & Alto Douro, CIDESD, Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev, Apartado 202, P-5001911 Vila Real, Portugal; [Fernandes, John] Hartpury Univ, Higher Educ Sport, Gloucester, England; [Moran, Jason] Univ Essex, Sch Sport Rehabil & Exercise Sci, Colchester, Essex, England; [Moran, Jason] Univ Essex, UKSch Sport Rehabil & Exercise Sci, Colchester, Essex, England; [Norris, Jonty] Derbyshire Cty Cricket Club, Derby, England; [Arede, Jorge] Univ Tras Os Montes & Alto Douro, CIDESD, Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev, Apartado 202, P-5001911 Vila Real, Portugal								24							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000600906600001	30	Article; Article		
J	Holmes, Clifton J.; MacDonald, Hayley V.; Esco, Michael R.; Fedewa, Michael V.; Wind, Stefanie A.; Winchester, Lee J.								Comparison of Heart Rate Variability Responses to Varying Resistance Exercise Volume-Loads								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				93	2			391	400		10.1080/02701367.2020.1851351			APR 3 2022	2022	Purpose: The aim of this study was to compare the effects of low ([LV]; 4 total sets), moderate ([MV]; 8 total sets), and high set volumes ([HV]; 12 total sets) in acute full-body resistance exercise sessions on post-exercise parasympathetic reactivation measured using RMSSD. Methods: Ten resistance-trained participants (25.8 +/- 6.8 yr., 173.4 +/- 10.6 cm, 75.4 +/- 9.9 kg) performed three resistance exercise sessions. During each session, heart rate variability (HRV) was measured pre- and for 30 min post-exercise, divided into 5-min segments stabilization, Post(5-10), Post(10-15), Post(15-20), Post(20-25), and Post(25-30). Repeated-measures ANOVA was used to assess differences within and between pre-post exercise natural logarithm RMSSD (LnRMSSD) values. To assess the initial change in LnRMSSD, the delta percent change (Delta LnRMSSD) from pre-exercise to Post(5-10) (Delta LnRMSSD(pre-post)) was calculated for each session. The Delta LnRMSSD was also calculated between Post(5-10) and Post(25-30) (Delta LnRMSSD(post5-30)) to assess recovery. Results: Significant differences were observed between sessions and when comparing pre-exercise values to all post-exercise times across sessions (p <= .05). The LV session resulted in significantly higher mean LnRMSSD value (3.62) post-exercise compared to both the MV (3.11, effect size [ES] = 3.77) and HV (3.02, ES = 3.92) sessions while the MV and HV sessions produced similar responses. Across sessions no return to baseline occurred and when comparing sessions, no significant differences were found in Delta LnRMSSD(pre-post) or Delta LnRMSSD(post5-30). Conclusion: Acute bouts of full-body resistance exercise can cause similar reductions in LnRMSSD from pre-exercise levels and can delay parasympathetic reactivation back to baseline values during the same 30-min recovery period despite differences in set volume.		[Holmes, Clifton J.] Washington Univ, Sch Med, St Louis, MO 14263 USA; [Holmes, Clifton J.; MacDonald, Hayley V.; Esco, Michael R.; Fedewa, Michael V.; Wind, Stefanie A.; Winchester, Lee J.] Univ Alabama, Tuscaloosa, AL 35487 USA; [Holmes, Clifton J.] Washington Univ, Program Phys Therapy, Sch Med, St Louis, MO 63110 USA								9							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000597859400001	44	Article; Article		
J	Yu, Hyeonho; Mulhearn, Shannon C.; van der Mars, Hans; Griffo, Janelle M.; Kulinna, Pamela H.								Off-Hours Facility Use in Public High Schools: Physical Activity Potential vs. Reality								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				93	2			341	351		10.1080/02701367.2020.1844128			APR 3 2022	2022	Purpose: Public high school campuses in the United States are generally built with multiple dedicated physical activity facilities from soccer fields to swimming pools. When viewed from a community health standpoint, these campuses hold great potential (if accessible) in providing community members spaces where they can engage in physical activity during non-school hours. Guided by the Social-Ecological Model (SEM) the purpose of this study was to assess access to and use of all physical activity areas on public high school campuses during non-school hours on weekdays and weekend days. Method: Direct observation using the SOPARC instrument was used to assess 19 public high schools across four districts in the Western U.S., by completing 3959 physical activity area sweeps. Results: Facilities were accessible about half of the time (53.4%), but empty 91% of the time. Public high school campuses are an underused resource for community physical activity during non-school hours. Discussion: Increased use of joint-use agreements would enable school districts to increase both the use of campus-based physical activity facilities and physical activity levels of community members who themselves fund the construction and maintenance of schools and school grounds through local taxes. This would help increase the schools' caloric footprint and contribute to improving public health.		[Yu, Hyeonho; van der Mars, Hans; Griffo, Janelle M.; Kulinna, Pamela H.] Arizona State Univ, Mesa, AZ 85212 USA; [Mulhearn, Shannon C.] Univ Nebraska Kearney, Kearney, NE USA; [Yu, Hyeonho] Arizona State Univ, Mary Lou Fulton Teachers Coll, 7271 E Sonoran Arroyo Mall,Santa Catalina Hall, Mesa, AZ 85212 USA								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000597690100001	50	Article; Article		
J	Rodrigues, F.; Macedo, R.; Mallett, C. J.; Kawabata, M.; Monteiro, D.								Examining the Coach Motivation Questionnaire in Fitness Professionals (CMQ-FP): Factor Structure, Invariance, and Predictive Analysis								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				93	2			379	390		10.1080/02701367.2020.1846674			APR 3 2022	2022	Purpose: To date, most research on the assessment of motivation has been exerciser-focused and has not considered how fitness professionals' motivations impact their behaviors toward exercisers during training sessions. The purpose of this study was to examine the factor structure of the Coach Motivation Questionnaire in a sample of fitness professionals (CMQ-FP) to ascertain its usefulness for this vocational grouping. Measurement invariance analysis was conducted between female and male fitness professionals, and predictive validity was tested considering need-supportive and need-thwarting behaviors as outcomes. Methods: Participants were 799 fitness professionals (female = 412) aged between 20 and 56 years (M = 28.71, SD = 3.24), who completed a multi-section survey assessing their motivation toward work and their interpersonal behaviors when engaging with exercisers. Results: The results of this research supported all three hypotheses. First, the hypothesized 6-factor measurement model showed acceptable fit to the data. Second, the factor structure of the CMQ-FP was invariant across gender (male and female fitness professionals). Third, fitness professionals' (autonomous or controlled) motivation was a valid predictor of need-supportive or need-thwarting behaviors. Conclusion: This study supported the factor structure of the CMQ-FP, presenting as a valid measure of motivation in fitness professionals. Understanding fitness professionals' perceptions of their coaching motivation can inform professional development activities to assist fitness professionals to increase understanding of what motivates these professionals and how they might be more need-supportive and less need-thwarting in their pedagogical behaviors.		[Rodrigues, F.] Sport Sci Sch Rio Maior ESDRM IPsantarem, Av Dr Mario Soares 110, P-2040413 Rio Maior, Portugal; [Rodrigues, F.] Life Qual Res Ctr CIEQV, Rio Maior, Portugal; [Rodrigues, F.; Monteiro, D.] Res Ctr Sport Hlth & Human Dev CIDESD, Covilha, Portugal; [Macedo, R.] CEOS P PORTO, Ctr Org & Social Studies P PORTO, Porto, Portugal; [Mallett, C. J.; Kawabata, M.] Univ Queensland, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [Mallett, C. J.] Tech Univ Munich, Munich, Germany; [Kawabata, M.] Nanyang Technol Univ, Singapore, Singapore; [Monteiro, D.] Polytech Leiria, ESECS, Leiria, Portugal; [Rodrigues, F.] Sport Sci Sch Rio Maior ESDRM IPsantarem, Av Dr Mario Soares 110, P-2040413 Rio Maior, Portugal								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000597042900001	52	Article; Article		
J	Uehara, Luiz; Button, Chris; Saunders, John; Araujo, Duarte; Falcous, Mark; Davids, Keith								Malandragem and Ginga: Socio-cultural constraints on the development of expertise and skills in Brazilian football								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	3			622	635	1747954120976271	10.1177/1747954120976271			JUN 2021	2021	In an ecological dynamics rationale, the development of expertise in sports is shaped by interactions of personal, task and environmental constraints. A notable outcome of this process is the distinctive performance styles of athletes shaped by socio-cultural-historical constraints. To understand this process, we examined the role of socio-cultural constraints shaping the development of skill in Brazilian football players at the macrosystem level. A range of data sources were inductively generated and analysed through the qualitative interpretative paradigm, including historical contextual analysis, participant observation, and unstructured interviews. Malandragem (i.e., cunning) emerged as a major focus and our findings suggested that behavioural characteristics, such as mischief and deception, are common attributes valued by many elite Brazilian footballers. Our analysis suggests how the value system of Malandragem is a product of the socio-cultural constraints primarily influenced by the Mulattos' cultural traditions, historically interacting with particular socio-economic conditions. In Brazil, Malandragem can manifest itself through the Ginga (i.e., body sway) playing style in which footballers move deceptively to gain competitive advantages over opponents. Whilst the theatrical antics of contemporary Malandros (i.e., tricksters and/or streetwise persons), such as Neymar Junior, are frowned upon by many football critics, we argue that some aspects of being Malandro may be contributing to the development of a high level of perceptual-motor and cognitive functioning that has underpinned the Ginga playing style in Brazilian football for many decades.		[Uehara, Luiz; Button, Chris; Falcous, Mark] Univ Otago, Sch Phys Educ Sport & Exercise Sci, POB 56, Dunedin 9054, New Zealand; [Saunders, John] Australian Catholic Univ, Sch Exercise Sci, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [Araujo, Duarte] Univ Lisbon, CIPER, Fac Motricidade Humana, Lisbon, Portugal; [Davids, Keith] Sheffield Hallam Univ, Sport & Human Performance Res Grp, Sheffield, S Yorkshire, England; [Uehara, Luiz] Univ Otago, Sch Phys Educ Sport & Exercise Sci, POB 56, Dunedin 9054, New Zealand								22							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000599897600001	78	Article; Article		
J	Patel, Tejal Sarika; McGregor, Alex; Fawcett, Louise; Bekker, Sheree; Williams, Sean; Williams, Karen; Cumming, Sean P.								Coach awareness, knowledge and practice in relation to growth and maturation and training load in competitive, young gymnasts								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	3			528	543	1747954120978486	10.1177/1747954120978486			JUN 2021	2021	Growth-related and overuse injuries are commonly reported in young gymnasts. Two risk factors of these injuries are growth and maturation, and training load. However, little is known regarding current coaching knowledge and practice in relation to these risk factors. To help understand current knowledge and practice, 44 coaches of competitive, young gymnasts, from 3 gymnastics disciplines (men's artistic, women's artistic, trampoline) took part in focus groups. The focus groups explored the awareness, experience and practice of coaches in relation to growth and maturation, training load and injury in competitive, young gymnasts. Data were analysed manually using an inductive thematic approach to identify core themes. The findings showed that coaches were aware of the physical changes and injuries that occur during the adolescent growth spurt. Both psychological changes and skill loss/confusion were also identified as challenges during this time. The knowledge and practice of monitoring growth and maturation, and training load did however differ between disciplines. Sports science and medicine practitioners were recognised as key stakeholders in helping manage and reduce the risk of injuries during growth. There appears to be gap between coach knowledge of growth and maturation, and training load, and practices such as monitoring training load and growth. Educating coaches and further research in these areas will aid coaches in reducing the risk of injuries in young, competitive gymnasts.		[Patel, Tejal Sarika; McGregor, Alex; Williams, Karen] Lilleshall Natl Sports Ctr, British Gymnast, Newport, Shrops, England; [Patel, Tejal Sarika; Bekker, Sheree; Williams, Sean; Cumming, Sean P.] Univ Bath, Dept Hlth, Bath BA2 7AY, Avon, England; [Fawcett, Louise] Lilleshall Natl Sports Ctr, English Inst Sport, Newport, Shrops, England; [Patel, Tejal Sarika] Univ Bath, Dept Hlth, Bath BA2 7AY, Avon, England								25							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000599892800001	56	Article; Article		
J	Herb, Collin; Donovan, Luke; Feger, Mark; Blemker, Silvia; Hart, Joe; Saliba, Susan; Hertel, Jay								Effects of rehabilitation on joint-coupling in patients with chronic ankle instability								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				21	4			472	486		10.1080/14763141.2020.1821758			APR 21 2022	2022	Chronic ankle instability (CAI) is associated with kinematic changes in the lower extremity. Alterations in joint-coupling have been identified during gait in patients with CAI. Rehabilitation remains the gold-standard for clinical treatment of CAI but little is known on the effects of rehabilitation on joint-coupling variability. Wearable destabilisation devices have shown an increase in muscle activity during functional tasks and may be useful in rehabilitation. The purpose of this study is to analyse the joint-coupling variability during gait prior to and following a rehabilitation programme performed with and without destabilisation devices. Twenty-six individuals with CAI were randomly assigned to receive 4 weeks of comprehensive rehabilitation with or without destabilisation devices. A 3D motion capture system was used to collect kinematics during walking. A vector-coding analysis was used to assess the joint-coupling variability of knee and hip motion to ankle motion. The destabilisation device group had decreases in joint-coupling variability during periods of walking gait. This decrease in joint-coupling variability may represent a change in sensorimotor organisation following rehabilitation. This decrease is indicative of an adaptation to the rehabilitation using destabilisation devices and may indicate an improvement in sensorimotor function.		[Herb, Collin] Northern Kentucky Univ, Sch Kinesiol Counseling & Rehabil Sci, Highland Hts, KY 41099 USA; [Donovan, Luke] Univ North Carolina Charlotte, Dept Kinesiol, Charlotte, NC USA; [Feger, Mark] Virginia Commonwealth Univ, Sch Med, Richmond, VA USA; [Blemker, Silvia] Univ Virginia, Dept Biomed Engn, Charlottesville, VA USA; [Hart, Joe; Saliba, Susan; Hertel, Jay] Univ Virginia, Dept Kinesiol, Charlottesville, VA USA; [Herb, Collin] Northern Kentucky Univ, Sch Kinesiol Counseling & Rehabil Sci, Highland Hts, KY 41099 USA								5							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000597036300001	46	Article; Article		
J	Lambert, Christophe; Reinert, Noemie; Stahl, Linda; Pfeiffer, Thomas; Wolfarth, Bernd; Lachmann, Daniel; Shafizadeh, Sven; Ritzmann, Ramona								Epidemiology of injuries in track and field athletes: a cross-sectional study of specific injuries based on time loss and reduction in sporting level								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				50	1			20	29		10.1080/00913847.2020.1858701			JAN 2 2022	2022	Objectives: To prevent the occurrence of injury in a sport, exact knowledge of injury patterns is needed. To synthesize sport-specific injuries in track and field comparing elite and recreational level athletes, as well as gender. Furthermore, analyze the time loss due to injury and reduction in athletic performance. Methods: Injury type-specific frequencies were recorded according to discipline, gender and performance level. Injury severity was assessed by time loss duration and performance reduction. Results: 64% of athletes suffered at least one injury. In the top 10 ranking, 83% (n = 524) were located in the lower extremities. A muscle strain of the thigh had the highest prevalence in sprint (34%, n = 41), jump (15%, n = 15) and middle-distance running (16%, n = 6). More injuries occurred during training (75%, n = 165) as compared to competition (25%, n = 56). The longest time loss was documented in throwing with a downtime of 36 weeks after a ligament injury of the elbow and 39 weeks after a muscle injury of the elbow. The injury with the highest number of athletes with a reduced level of performance was the foot ligament injury in sprint athletes at 100%. Conclusion: Assessing time loss and performance reduction in athletics, there are discipline-specific injury patterns. This study points out the high prevalence of training injuries, highlighting the need for future investigations to adapt training management, improve medical care and rehabilitation with respect to every discipline.		[Lambert, Christophe; Pfeiffer, Thomas] Univ Witten Herdecke, Cologne Merheim Med Ctr, Dept Expt Sports Traumatol, Cologne, Germany; [Lambert, Christophe; Ritzmann, Ramona] Praxisklin Rennbahn AG, Dept Biomech & Performance Diagnost, Muttenz, Switzerland; [Lambert, Christophe] Univ Witten Herdecke, Cologne Merheim Med Ctr, Dept Trauma & Orthopaed Surg, D-50931 Cologne, Germany; [Reinert, Noemie] Univ Hosp Basel, Dept Orthopaed & Traumatol, Basel, Switzerland; [Stahl, Linda; Shafizadeh, Sven] Sana Dreifaltigkeits Krankenhaus Cologne, Dept Trauma Surg & Sports Traumatol, Cologne, Germany; [Wolfarth, Bernd] Humboldt Univ, Dept Sports Sci, Div Sports Med, Berlin, Germany; [Lachmann, Daniel] Univ Cologne, Vice Rectorate Teaching & Studies Cent Evaluat St, Cologne, Germany; [Lambert, Christophe] Univ Witten Herdecke, Cologne Merheim Med Ctr, Dept Trauma & Orthopaed Surg, D-50931 Cologne, Germany								18							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000597015500001	37	Article; Article		
J	Alfano, Vincenzo; Cicatiello, Lorenzo; Gaeta, Giuseppe Lucio; Gallo, Michele; Rotondo, Francesca								Three is a Magic Number: Evidence on the Effects of the Application of the Three-Point Rule in Italy's Serie A								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				22	3			329	356	1527002520975850	10.1177/1527002520975850			APR 2021	2021	This paper contributes to the expanding literature that investigates the effects of the introduction of a three-points-for-a-win rule in football. To this end, it provides empirical evidence of the effect of the rule on Italy's most prestigious football league. Our analysis uses data collected over a long period of time and relies on pooled regressions and a regression discontinuity design. The findings provide evidence that in the case of the Italian league the rule worked as expected, unlike what previous contributions have found when looking at other national football leagues.		[Alfano, Vincenzo] CNR, IsMed, Naples, Italy; [Cicatiello, Lorenzo; Gaeta, Giuseppe Lucio; Gallo, Michele; Rotondo, Francesca] Univ Naples Orientale, Dept Human & Social Sci, Largo San Giovanni Maggiore 30, I-80134 Naples, Italy; [Gaeta, Giuseppe Lucio] Univ Naples Orientale, Dept Human & Social Sci, Largo San Giovanni Maggiore 30, I-80134 Naples, Italy								4							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000600910100001	23	Article; Article		
J	Sotiropoulos, Konstantinos; Drikos, Sotirios; Papadopoulou, Sophia D.; Barzouka, Karolina								Characterizing adaptations of serve indicators in top-level male volleyball among seasons								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	3			784	792	1747954120978920	10.1177/1747954120978920			JUN 2021	2021	The purpose of this study was to analyse selected serve characteristics in top-level male volleyball, with a special focus on detecting adaptations of the serve skill among seasons. The indicators examined were type, position, direction and quality of serve. The sample consisted of 5482 serves from three final phases of different top-level tournaments (Olympic Games 2012, N = 1942, World League 2017, N = 1883, World Championship 2018, N = 1657). The interrelationships between variables were analyzed using chi-squared tests, log-linear modelling and multiple correspondence analysis. The results showed that the interaction of all serve indicators are statistically important, but the combination of the variables' categories that were more responsible for association alternated across the seasons under study. A 3-way association term was revealed for season 2012 (type/position/direction) and 2018 (type/position/quality), while for season 2017 multiple 2-way interactions were found (type/position, type/direction, position/quality, direction/quality). The direction of the serve to the horizontal axis of the court was correlated to the quality of serve and consequently with the advantage of the serving team, while a more tactical perspective for serve skill is formed over periods in top level male volleyball.		[Sotiropoulos, Konstantinos; Drikos, Sotirios; Barzouka, Karolina] Natl & Kapodistrian Univ Athens, Sch Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Athens, Greece; [Papadopoulou, Sophia D.] Aristotle Univ Thessaloniki, Sch Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Thessaloniki, Greece; [Drikos, Sotirios] Ethnikis Antistasis 41, Athens, Greece								9							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000599544900001	36	Article; Article		
J	Eather, Narelle; Miller, Andrew; Jones, Brad; Morgan, Philip J.								Evaluating the impact of a coach development intervention for improving coaching practices and player outcomes in netball: The MASTER coaching randomized control trial								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	3			439	455	1747954120976966	10.1177/1747954120976966			JUN 2021	2021	The aim of this randomized controlled trial was to evaluate the impact of a novel 8-week coach development intervention (MASTER) on game-based coaching practices of netball coaches from one netball club (n = 16; 8 intervention, 8 active-control; NSW Australia), and player outcomes for the junior athletes being coached. The multi-component MASTER intervention aimed to educate coaches on how to design and implement high quality game-based coaching sessions. The core pillar of MASTER is 'positive coaching,' delivered through games-based coaching practices. At baseline and 10-weeks, two coaching sessions per coach were filmed and assessed using the MASTER assessment tool. Players (8-16yrs; n = 85) were videoed during structured gameplay, with three aspects of game play assessed using Game Performance Assessment Instrument. Coaches and players (n = 75; 12-16yrs) completed a perceptions questionnaire. Using linear mixed model ITT analysis, significant interventions effects were observed for the primary outcome: percentage of time spent performing playing-form activities [25.7% (95% CI (7.79-43.65), P = 0.008, d = 1.52]. Significant interventions effects were also observed for coach perceptions, player game skills, and player self-perceptions (P < 0.05). No significant changes were observed for player enjoyment, motivation, or wellbeing. The MASTER program was effective in improving coach and player self-perceptions, and coaching practices of netball coaches during training sessions.		[Eather, Narelle; Morgan, Philip J.] Univ Newcastle, Prior Res Ctr Phys Act & Nutr, Univ Dr, Callaghan, NSW 2308, Australia; [Eather, Narelle; Miller, Andrew; Jones, Brad; Morgan, Philip J.] Univ Newcastle, Fac Educ & Arts, Callaghan, NSW, Australia; [Eather, Narelle] Univ Newcastle, Prior Res Ctr Phys Act & Nutr, Univ Dr, Callaghan, NSW 2308, Australia								14							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000599540800001	96	Article; Article		
J	Weldon, Anthony; Duncan, Michael J.; Turner, Anthony; Christie, Candice J.; Pang, Cecilia M. C.								Contemporary practices of strength and conditioning coaches in professional cricket								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	3			585	600	1747954120977472	10.1177/1747954120977472			JUN 2021	2021	This study describes the contemporary practices of strength and conditioning (S&C) coaches in male professional cricket. Thirty-three S&C coaches working with international and professional club teams across seven countries completed an online survey. The survey consisted of 45 questions (35 fixed responses and 10 open-ended), with eight sections: (a) background information, (b) muscular strength and power development, (c) speed development, (d) plyometrics, (e) flexibility development, (f) physical testing, (g) technology use, and (h) programing. Most S&C coaches were educated to degree level (97%) or higher, with 91% of degrees being in a sports science-related field. Furthermore, 73% held S&C and 40% cricket coaching certifications. Isometric type resistance training exercises (94%) were frequently programed by S&C coaches, with squats and deadlifts (including variations) deemed the most important strength development exercises. Ratings of perceived exertion (58%) was most used for determining set loads. Hang clean (64%) and multiple hops/lunges (85%) were the most prescribed Olympic weightlifting and plyometric exercises. Speed gates (85%) were the most used technology-based equipment. Open-ended questions revealed, 45% of S&C coaches believed time constraints, scheduling and fixtures are the main issues faced in their role. Position-specific demands (61%) was the predominant method used for individualizing players training strategies. The information presented in this study is valuable for those pursuing or currently working as an S&C coach in professional cricket to align, compare, and explain their practices. Furthermore, will provide insight for the wider athlete support team (e.g., sports coaches and physiotherapists) on the practices of S&C coaches.		[Weldon, Anthony; Pang, Cecilia M. C.] Technol & Higher Educ Inst Hong Kong, Human Performance Lab, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [Duncan, Michael J.] Coventry Univ, Ctr Sport Exercise & Life Sci, Coventry, W Midlands, England; [Turner, Anthony] Middlesex Univ, London Sport Inst, London, England; [Christie, Candice J.] Rhodes Univ, Dept Human Kinet & Ergon, Grahamstown, South Africa; [Weldon, Anthony] Room S 1226,THEi Bldg,133 Shing Tai Rd, Hong Kong, Peoples R China								39							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000599619700001	45	Article; Article		
J	Poiret, Clement; Noulhiane, Marion; Clua, Eric; Lemaitre, Frederic								Breath-hold diving strategies to avoid loss of consciousness: speed is the key factor								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	1			44	57		10.1080/14763141.2020.1820073			JAN 2 2024	2024	The aim of this study was to investigate the impact of breath-hold diving strategies regarding loss of consciousness (LOC). Three international competitions were examined through video in constant weight diving with (CWT) or without (CNF) fins. We analysed three breath-hold parameters (time, speed, and movements count) for the following phases: active descent, passive descent, turning, and ascent. Divers who had LOC during CNF were slower in the active descent phase, faster in the passive descent phase with a longer turn, and slower in the ascent phase than divers who did not have LOC. They also had lower amplitude and higher frequency. Men were deeper (72.9 m vs. 56.3 m) for a longer dive time (181.1 s vs. 154.6 s), faster, with a greater amplitude than women. In CWT, divers with an LOC had longer dive times (197 s vs. 167 s) with a faster active descent phase. Men had lower amplitude and greater frequency than women. This is the first study showing that breath-hold divers undergoing an LOC event shown differences in efficiency during CWT and CNF regarding velocities, amplitudes, and frequencies. In conclusion, our results suggest that the speed parameter during active descent phase influence the LOC.		[Poiret, Clement; Lemaitre, Frederic] Univ Rouen, Fac Sports Sci, Ctr Study Transformat Phys & Sports Act, Rouen, France; [Poiret, Clement; Noulhiane, Marion] Univ Paris Saclay, Translat & Applicat Neuroimaging Res Unit, French Alternat Energies & Atom Energy Commiss, Gif Sur Yvette, France; [Poiret, Clement; Noulhiane, Marion] Neurodiderot Univ, Mixed Res Unit 1141, Paris, France; [Clua, Eric] Ctr Insular Res & Observ Environm, Moorea, French Polynesi, France; [Lemaitre, Frederic] Univ Rouen, Fac Sports Sci, Ctr Study Transformat Phys & Sports Act, Rouen, France								7							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000596621000001	22	Article; Article		
J	Fares, Mohamad Y.; Salhab, Hamza A.; Fares, Jawad; Khachfe, Hussein H.; Fares, Youssef; Baydoun, Hasan; Abboud, Joseph A.; Alaaeddine, Nada								Craniofacial and traumatic brain injuries in mixed martial arts								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				49	4			420	428		10.1080/00913847.2020.1847623			OCT 2 2021	2021	Objective: Mixed-Martial-Arts (MMA) has witnessed a rapid growth over the recent years. This study aims to explore the patterns and trends of head injuries in MMA. Design: Descriptive epidemiological study. Setting: Ringside physician reports of the Ultimate Fighting Championship (UFC) fights between 2016 and 2019 (inclusive) were screened. Data were extracted from the Nevada State Athletic Commission (NSAC) database. Play-by-play video analysis was also conducted. Participants: UFC fighters involved in fights sanctioned by the NSAC, between 2016 and the end of 2019 (N = 816). Independent variables: Sex, location of head injury, type of head injury, injury mechanism, number of significant head strikes, type of finish, and weight division. Main outcome measures: Head injury rates were calculated. A one-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) was used to explore any statistically significant differences between injury rates of different locations, types, and types of finishes. An independent t-test was used to determine whether any significant differences existed between the two sexes, and a Joinpoint regression analysis was used to determine the statistical significance of the trends of head injury rates across different weight divisions. P-values <0.05 were considered significant (95% CI). Results: A total of 288 head injuries in 408 fights were recorded during our study period. Head injury rate constituted 35 injuries per 100 athletic-exposures (AE) in sanctioned fights. Traumatic brain injuries (TBI) were the most common type of injury, with a rate of 16 per 100AE, significantly greater than that of fractures (p = 0.003). Males had a head injury rate of 37 per 100AE, higher than that of females which was 23 per 100AE. Technical Knockout (TKO)/ Knockout(KO) was the type of finish with the highest rate of head injuries, significantly greater than that of decision or submission (p < 0.001). In general, head injury rates were higher as weight divisions increased. Conclusion: Head injuries are prevalent in MMA. Preventive measures need to be implemented to ensure fighter safety and limit injury risk.		[Fares, Mohamad Y.; Salhab, Hamza A.; Fares, Youssef; Alaaeddine, Nada] Lebanese Univ, Fac Med, Neurosci Res Ctr, Beirut, Lebanon; [Fares, Mohamad Y.; Salhab, Hamza A.; Khachfe, Hussein H.] Amer Univ Beirut, Fac Med, Beirut, Lebanon; [Fares, Mohamad Y.] Univ Glasgow, Coll Med Vet & Life Sci, Glasgow, Lanark, Scotland; [Fares, Jawad] Northwestern Univ, Feinberg Sch Med, Dept Neurol Surg, Chicago, IL 60611 USA; [Baydoun, Hasan] Amer Univ Beirut, Med Ctr, Dept Orthoped, Beirut, Lebanon; [Abboud, Joseph A.] Thomas Jefferson Univ Hosp, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Rothman Inst, Philadelphia, PA 19107 USA; [Fares, Mohamad Y.] Lebanese Univ, Fac Med, Neurosci Res Ctr, Beirut, Lebanon								21							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000596635100001	29	Article; Article		
J	Senecal, Isabelle; Howarth, Samuel J.; Wells, Greg D.; Raymond, Isaac; Mior, Silvano								The Impact of Moderate and High Intensity Cardiovascular Exertion on Sub-Elite Soccer Referee's Cognitive Performance: A Lab-Based Study								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				20	4			618	625		10.52082/jssm.2021.618			DEC 2020	2020	Soccer referees represent a specialized population who are required to perform decisional or perceptual tasks during physical exertion. Recent studies have demonstrated that submaximal acute exercise has a positive impact on cognitive performance. However, less is known about the impact of more strenuous exertion on cognitive performance. This study assessed the effect of moderate and maximal intensity exercise exertion on a cognitive performance in sub-elite soccer referees. Twelve experienced soccer referees (4 female, 8 male) were recruited. Data were collected on 2 separate days. Baseline fitness level was assessed by a standardized aerobic capacity test (VO2max Test) on Day 1, along with practice trials of the Stroop Color Word Test (Stroop Test) for evaluating cognitive performance. On Day 2, cognitive performance was assessed before, during, and after an incremental intensity exercise protocol based on the Federation International de Football Association (FIFA) referee fitness test. Relative to results obtained at rest performance on the Stroop Test improved at moderate exertion and at maximal exertion during the modified FIFA fitness test (F = 18.97, p = .005). Mean time to completion (in seconds) of the interference Stroop task significantly improved (p < .05) between rest and moderate exertion [3.0 +/- 3.0 seconds] and between rest and maximal exertion [-4.8 +/- 2.6 seconds]. In summary, we observed that cognitive performance was found to improve when sub-elite soccer referees performed moderate and maximal exercise relative to results obtained at rest. It is possible that referees focus their attention to improve goal-oriented processing in the brain during physical exertion.		[Senecal, Isabelle; Howarth, Samuel J.; Mior, Silvano] Canadian Mem Chiropract Coll, Div Res & Innovat, Toronto, ON, Canada; [Wells, Greg D.] Univ Toronto, Fac Kinesiol & Phys Educ, Toronto, ON, Canada; [Wells, Greg D.] Hosp Sick Children, Translat Med, Toronto, ON, Canada; [Raymond, Isaac] Canadian Soccer Assoc, Ottawa, ON, Canada; [Mior, Silvano] Canadian Mem Chiropract Coll, Div Res & Innovat, Toronto, ON, Canada								8							Sport Sciences	WOS:000704889800002	44	Article; Article		
J	Radnor, John M.; Moeskops, Sylvia; Morris, Stephanie J.; Mathews, Thomas A.; Kumar, Nakul T. A.; Pullen, Ben J.; Meyers, Robert W.; Pedley, Jason S.; Gould, Zach, I; Oliver, Jon L.; Lloyd, Rhodri S.								Developing Athletic Motor Skill Competencies in Youth								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				42	6			54	70		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000602			DEC 2020	2020	Synergistic development of muscular strength and motor skill competency is central to long-term athletic development. However, these qualities need to be developed in a logical and progressive manner, and training methods need to be developmentally appropriate, engaging, and enjoyable for young athletes to help them build a positive association with strength and conditioning-based activities. This article aims to provide a resource for coaches to use when developing the athletic motor skill competencies in youth, including game-based activities, and a more structured resistance training curriculum.		[Radnor, John M.; Moeskops, Sylvia; Morris, Stephanie J.; Mathews, Thomas A.; Kumar, Nakul T. A.; Pullen, Ben J.; Meyers, Robert W.; Pedley, Jason S.; Gould, Zach, I; Oliver, Jon L.; Lloyd, Rhodri S.] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Youth Phys Dev Ctr, Sch Sport & Hlth Sci, Cardiff, Wales; [Oliver, Jon L.; Lloyd, Rhodri S.] AUT Univ, Sport Performance Res Inst, New Zealand SPRINZ, Auckland, New Zealand; [Lloyd, Rhodri S.] Waikato Inst Technol, Ctr Sport Sci & Human Performance, Hamilton, New Zealand; [Radnor, John M.] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Youth Phys Dev Ctr, Sch Sport & Hlth Sci, Cardiff, Wales								37							Sport Sciences	WOS:000618930700007	58	Article; Article		
J	Konrad, Andreas; Glashuettner, Christoph; Reiner, Marina Maren; Bernsteiner, Daniel; Tilp, Markus								The Acute Effects of a Percussive Massage Treatment with a Hypervolt Device on Plantar Flexor Muscles' Range of Motion and Performance								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				19	4			690	694					DEC 2020	2020	Handheld percussive massage treatment has gained popularity in recent years, for both therapeutic use and in sports practice. It is used with the goals of increasing flexibility and performance, but also to accelerate recovery. However, until now, there has been no scientific evidence, which proves such effects. Therefore, the purpose of this study was to investigate the effects of a 5-min percussion treatment of the calf muscles on range of motion (ROM) and maximum voluntary contraction (MVC) torque of the plantar flexor muscles. Sixteen healthy male volunteers (mean +/- SD; 27.2 +/- 4.2 years, 1.79 +/- 0.05 m, 79.4 +/- 9.1 kg) were tested on two separate days with either a 5-min massage treatment of the calf muscles with a Hypervolt device or the control condition (sitting only). Before and after the treatments, dorsiflexion ROM and MVC torque of the plantar flexor muscles were measured with a dynamometer. Maximum dorsiflexion ROM increased with a large magnitude following the massage treatment by 5.4 degrees (+18.4%; p = 0.002, d= 1.36), while there was no change in the control group. Moreover, MVC torque did not change following both the massage treatment and the control treatment. Similar to a conventional massage by a therapist, ROM can be increased by a handheld percussive massage treatment without having an effect on muscle strength.		[Konrad, Andreas; Glashuettner, Christoph; Reiner, Marina Maren; Bernsteiner, Daniel; Tilp, Markus] Karl Franzens Univ Graz, Inst Human Movement Sci Sport & Hlth, Mozartgasse 14, A-8010 Graz, Austria; [Konrad, Andreas] Karl Franzens Univ Graz, Inst Human Movement Sci Sport & Hlth, Mozartgasse 14, A-8010 Graz, Austria								90							Sport Sciences	WOS:000591922400008	14	Article; Article		
J	Paradis-Deschenes, Penelope; Lapointe, Julien; Joanisse, Denis R.; Billaut, Francois								Similar Recovery of Maximal Cycling Performance after Ischemic Preconditioning, Neuromuscular Electrical Stimulation or Active Recovery in Endurance Athletes								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				19	4			761	771					DEC 2020	2020	This study investigated the efficacy of ischemic preconditioning (IPC) on the recovery of maximal aerobic performance and physiological responses compared with commonly used techniques. Nine endurance athletes performed two 5-km cycling time trials (TT) interspersed by 45 minutes of recovery that included either IPC, active recovery (AR) or neuromuscular electrical stimulation (NMES) in a randomized crossover design. Performance, blood markers, arterial O-2 saturation (SpO2), heart rate (HR), near-infrared spectroscopy-derived muscle oxygenation parameters and perceptual measures were recorded throughout TTs and recovery. Differences were analyzed using repeated-measures ANOVAs and Cohen's effect size (ES). The decrement in chronometric performance from TT1 to TT2 was similar between recovery modalities (IPC: -6.1 sec, AR: -7.9 sec, NMES: -5.4 sec, p = 0.84, ES 0.05). The modalities induced similar increases in blood volume before the start of TT2 (IPC: 13.3%, AR: 14.6%, NMES: 15.0%, p = 0.79, ES 0.06) and similar changes in lactate concentration and pH. There were negligible differences between conditions in bicarbonate concentration, base excess of blood and total concentration of carbon dioxide, and no difference in SpO2, HR and muscle O-2 extraction during exercise (all p > 0.05). We interpreted these findings to suggest that IPC is as effective as AR and NMES to enhance muscle blood volume, metabolic by-products clearance and maximal endurance performance. IPC could therefore complement the athlete's toolbox to promote recovery.		[Paradis-Deschenes, Penelope; Lapointe, Julien; Joanisse, Denis R.; Billaut, Francois] Laval Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Quebec City, PQ, Canada; [Paradis-Deschenes, Penelope; Joanisse, Denis R.; Billaut, Francois] Quebec Heart & Lung Inst, Quebec City, PQ, Canada; [Paradis-Deschenes, Penelope; Lapointe, Julien; Joanisse, Denis R.; Billaut, Francois] Laval Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Fac Med, 2300 Rue Terrasse, Quebec City, PQ G1V 0A6, Canada; [Billaut, Francois] Laval Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Fac Med, 2300 Rue Terrasse, Quebec City, PQ G1V 0A6, Canada								21							Sport Sciences	WOS:000591922400017	45	Article; Article		
J	Gonjo, Tomohiro; Olstad, Bjorn Harald								Start and Turn Performances of Competitive Swimmers in Sprint Butterfly Swimming								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				19	4			727	734					DEC 2020	2020	The purposes of this study were to establish relationships between selected underwater kinematics and the starting and turning performances and to quantify kinematic differences between these segments in sprint butterfly swimming Fourteen male swimmers performed 50 m maximal butterfly swimming in a short course pre-calibrated pool. The entire race was filmed by a multi-camera system, which quantified the forward head displacement and velocity (vx(h)(ead)) throughout the race with a sampling frequency of 50 Hz. The time taken between 0-15 m (T0-15) and 25-35 m (T25-35) as well as 16 kinematic variables were acquired from the data provided by the system and manual video processing for further analysis. The mean underwater velocity (UW-vx(mean)) was related to both T(0-15)and T25-35 (r = -0.70 and -0.95, respectively; p < 0.01). UW-vx(mean) was positively correlated with vx(h)(ead) during the first kick (r = 0.84, p < 0.001) in the start segment and with vx(h)(ead) during the last kick in the turn segment (r = 0.68, p < 0.01), but other kinematic variables such as kick frequency, body angle, deceleration during kicks (Dec(kick)), and glide time were not related to UW-vx(mean). Swimmers had larger vx(h)(ead) at the beginning of the segment and during the first kick in the start than in turn segment (p < 0.001). However, vx(h)(ead) during the last kick was similar due to the larger Dec(kick) (p < 0.05) in the start than in turn segment. The underwater time was similar between the segments despite a longer underwater distance (p < 0.01) and a larger kick count and frequency (p < 0.01) in the start than turn segment. In conclusion, UW-vx(mean) is an important factor for start and turn performances, but swimmers select individual kinematic strategies to achieve a large UW-vx(mean). Results also highlighted the importance of the different parts within the underwater segment in each segment.		[Gonjo, Tomohiro; Olstad, Bjorn Harald] Norwegian Sch Sport Sci, Dept Phys Performance, Postboks 4014 Ulleval Stad, N-0806 Oslo, Norway; [Gonjo, Tomohiro] Norwegian Sch Sport Sci, Dept Phys Performance, Postboks 4014 Ulleval Stad, N-0806 Oslo, Norway								36							Sport Sciences	WOS:000591922400013	21	Article; Article		
J	Eda, Nobuhiko; Ito, Hironaga; Akama, Takao								Beneficial Effects of Yoga Stretching on Salivary Stress Hormones and Parasympathetic Nerve Activity								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				19	4			695	702					DEC 2020	2020	This study aimed to determine the effect of yoga stretching on salivary stress hormones and cardiac autonomic nervous system. To our knowledge, this study is the first to investigate changes in cardiac autonomic nervous system after yoga stretching. In this crossover design study, 10 adult men (age, 26.3 +/- 2.5 years) without yoga experience participated in the rest and yoga trials for 90 min. Measurements were carried out before (pre), immediately (post), 60 min, and 120 min after rest or yoga stretching. Saliva samples were collected by chewing a sterile cotton ball at a frequency of 60 cycles per minute. Salivary cortisol and testosterone concentrations were measured using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. With the subjects in the sitting position, heart rate variability was measured using pulse analyzer plus for 150 seconds. As regards rate changes, salivary testosterone level tended to increase (p = 0.088), testosterone/cortisol ratio significantly increased (p < 0.05), and cortisol level significantly decreased (p < 0.05) at 120 min after yoga stretching. The square root of the mean-squared differences of successive normal-to-normal intervals and natural logarithm high-frequency component, which are indicators of parasympathetic nerve activity, increased at 60 min (p < 0.05) and 120 min (p < 0.05) in the yoga trial, respectively. In conclusion, yoga stretching can enhance parasympathetic nerve activity and improve stress hormones. Therefore, yoga stretching may be useful to compensate for physical inactivity and increase life expectancy in the general population.		[Eda, Nobuhiko] Japan Inst Sports Sci, Tokyo, Japan; [Eda, Nobuhiko; Ito, Hironaga] Waseda Univ, Waseda Inst Sport Sci, Saitama, Japan; [Ito, Hironaga] Japan Sports Sci Inc, Shizuoka, Japan; [Akama, Takao] Waseda Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Saitama, Japan; [Eda, Nobuhiko] Japan Inst Sport Sci, Kita Ku, 3-15-1 Nishigaoka, Tokyo 1150056, Japan								37							Sport Sciences	WOS:000591922400009	46	Article; Article		
J	Koshino, Yuta; Samukawa, Mina; Chida, Shuya; Okada, Shinpei; Tanaka, Hirono; Watanabe, Kentaro; Chijimatsu, Masato; Yamanaka, Masanori; Tohyama, Harukazu								Postural Stability and Muscle Activation Onset during Double- to Single-Leg Stance Transition in Flat-Footed Individuals								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				19	4			662	669					DEC 2020	2020	The effects of foot posture on postural stability and on muscular activation pattern for postural control remain unclear. This study aimed to investigate postural stability and muscular activation onset during the transition task from double- to single-leg stance in individuals with different foot postures. Twenty-seven healthy men (age: 21.5 +/- 1.5 years) were divided into 3 groups using the Foot Posture Index: neutral foot (n = 10); flatfoot (n = 8); and high-arched foot (n = 9). Center of pressure (COP) data and muscle activation onset times of the tibialis anterior, peroneus longus, gastrocnemius medialis, and soleus during the transition task with eyes closed were compared among groups using one-way analysis of variance and a post-hoc Tukey honestly significant difference test (p < 0.05) when the data were normally distributed and the Kruskal-Wallis test and a post-hoc Mann-Whitney U-test with Bonferroni correction (p < 0.0167) when the data were not normally distributed. The COP displacements in the mediolateral and anteroposterior directions and the resultant COP displacement during the first 3 s after a stability time point, as determined by sequential estimation during the single-leg stance phase, differed significantly among the three groups (p < 0.05). Post-hoc tests showed that the displacements were significantly greater in the flatfoot group than in the neutral and high-arched foot groups (p < 0.05), and the effect sizes for these results were large. No muscular activation onset times showed significant intergroup differences. Postural stability was significantly decreased only in the flatfoot group, while muscle activation onsets did not differ significantly by foot posture during the transition task. Decreased postural stability may be one mechanism underlying the link between flatfoot and risk of lower limb injury, and foot posture represents a potential confounder for measuring postural stability during the transition task.		[Koshino, Yuta; Samukawa, Mina; Okada, Shinpei; Tanaka, Hirono; Watanabe, Kentaro; Tohyama, Harukazu] Hokkaido Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, Sapporo, Hokkaido, Japan; [Koshino, Yuta] NTT Med Ctr Sapporo, Rehabil Ctr, Sapporo, Hokkaido, Japan; [Chida, Shuya] Hakodate Orthoped Clin, Dept Rehabil, Hakodate, Hokkaido, Japan; [Chijimatsu, Masato] Matsuda Orthoped Mem Hosp, Dept Rehabil, Sapporo, Hokkaido, Japan; [Yamanaka, Masanori] Hokkaido Chitose Coll Rehabil, Fac Hlth Sci, Chitose, Japan; [Samukawa, Mina] Hokkaido Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, Kita Ku, West 5,North 12, Sapporo, Hokkaido 0600812, Japan								17							Sport Sciences	WOS:000591922400005	30	Article; Article		
J	Biggins, Michelle; Purtill, Helen; Fowler, Peter; Bender, Amy; Sullivan, Kieran O.; Samuels, Charles; Cahalan, Roisin								Sleep, health, and well-being in elite athletes from different sports, before, during, and after international competition								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				49	4			429	437		10.1080/00913847.2020.1850149			OCT 2 2021	2021	Objectives: Limited research has been conducted on sleep problems in elite athletes at international competition, and how this relates to their general health and well-being. Methods: Sixty-five elite international athletes (37 males, 28 females, 21.8 +/- 2.1 years) from different sports completed validated sleep (Athlete Sleep Screening Questionnaire), health (Subjective Health Complaints Inventory) and well-being (Sports Profile of Mood States) questionnaires; 1 month pre-competition, at the end of international competition, and 1 month post-competition. Results: Twenty-three percent of the elite athletes were identified as having a moderate or severe clinically significant sleep problem during competition, with 82% reporting less than 8 h of sleep per night. Athletes with a moderate or severe clinically significant sleep problem during competition had significantly greater general health complaints (p = 0.002), mood disturbance (p = 0.001) and poorer sleep hygiene (p = 0.002). Swimmers had more sleep difficulty pre and during competition compared to athletics and soccer (p = 0.009). Conclusion: Sleep disturbance during international competition is common and associated with poorer health and lower mood. Swimmers may be more at risk of sleep difficulty pre and during competition compared to those competing in athletics and soccer. Sleep services may be required to support elite athletes at international competition.		[Biggins, Michelle; Sullivan, Kieran O.; Cahalan, Roisin] Univ Limerick, Sch Allied Hlth, Limerick, Ireland; [Biggins, Michelle; Purtill, Helen; Sullivan, Kieran O.; Cahalan, Roisin] Univ Limerick, Hlth Res Inst, Limerick, Ireland; [Biggins, Michelle; Purtill, Helen; Sullivan, Kieran O.; Cahalan, Roisin] Univ Limerick, Dept Math & Stat, Limerick, Ireland; [Purtill, Helen] Aspetar Orthopaed & Sports Med Hosp, Sports Spine Ctr, Doha, Qatar; [Fowler, Peter] Queensland Univ Technol, Sch Exercise & Nutr Sci, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [Bender, Amy; Samuels, Charles] Univ Calgary, Fac Kinesiol, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Samuels, Charles] Univ Calgary, Cummings Sch Med, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Biggins, Michelle] Univ Limerick, Sch Allied Hlth, Limerick, Ireland								30							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000594050300001	63	Article; Article		
J	Lee, Seungjoo; Kwon, Sungho; Kim, Yong-se; Lee, Doheung								The effect of adolescent athletes' achievement goal orientation and perception of error on their sport-confidence								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	3			646	657	1747954120976248	10.1177/1747954120976248			JUN 2021	2021	The purpose of this study was to examine the effect of achievement goal orientation and perception of error on the sport-confidence of adolescent athletes and the moderating effect of perception of error in a competitive sports environment to provide basic data for improving the sport-confidence of adolescent athletes. The subjects of the study were middle and high school athletes (N = 300, Males = 218, Females = 82) registered in institutions under the Korean Sport & Olympic Committee. The data were analyzed using descriptive statistics, confirmatory factor analysis, correlation analysis and hierarchical regression analysis. Results revealed that athletes' achievement goal orientation positively predicted sport-confidence and these pathways were moderated by athletes' perception of error. The implications for athletes and researchers from those results are discussed.		[Lee, Seungjoo; Kwon, Sungho; Kim, Yong-se; Lee, Doheung] Seoul Natl Univ, Dept Phys Educ, 1 Gwanak Ro, Seoul, South Korea; [Kwon, Sungho] Seoul Natl Univ, Dept Phys Educ, 1 Gwanak Ro, Seoul, South Korea								12							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000599900400001	62	Article; Article		
J	Lee, Ye Hoon; Cho, Heetae								The roles of different types of passion in emotional exhaustion and turnover intention among athletic coaches								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	3			465	476	1747954120976955	10.1177/1747954120976955			JUN 2021	2021	Coaching turnover has significant implications for both athletic organizations and athletes. This study examined how the two distinctive types of passion were associated with turnover intention among high school athletic coaches. Moreover, this study used emotional exhaustion as an underlying mechanism in the relationship between passion and turnover intention. A total of 358 athletic coaches in the United States participated in the online survey assessing their levels of harmonious passion, obsessive passion, emotional exhaustion, and turnover intention. The results revealed that emotional exhaustion was negatively linked to harmonious passion but positively linked to obsessive passion. Emotional exhaustion, in turn, was positively linked to turnover intention. Additionally, this study found the indirect effect of emotional exhaustion in both passions-turnover intention relationship. The results of this study highlighted the significant roles of different types of passion in athletic coaches' wellbeing and turnover intention.		[Lee, Ye Hoon] Hankuk Univ Foreign Studies, Div Int Sport & Leisure Studies, Seoul, South Korea; [Cho, Heetae] Nanyang Technol Univ, Dept Phys Educ & Sports Sci, NIE5-03-28, Singapore 637616, Singapore; [Cho, Heetae] Nanyang Technol Univ, Dept Phys Educ & Sports Sci, NIE5-03-28, Singapore 637616, Singapore								18							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000599565400001	73	Article; Article		
J	Murphy, John; O'Reilly, James								Nutrition knowledge and dietary intake of hurlers								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	3			690	700	1747954120972841	10.1177/1747954120972841			JUN 2021	2021	The current study investigated the association between sports nutrition knowledge and dietary quality in a sample of adult Irish male hurling players. Nutrition knowledge was measured by the validated Sports Nutrition Knowledge Questionnaire (SNKQ). Diet quality was measured by the Australian Recommended Food Score (ARFS) calculated from food frequency questionnaire data. Analysis of variance and linear modelling were used to assess associations between variables. A total of 265 (129 elite, 136 sub-elite) players were recruited. No significant difference in nutrition knowledge (SNKQ) was found between groups. Results showed a significant difference (p = 0.02; d = 0.39 +/- 0.25; small) in food score (ARFS) between groups. A weak, positive association (r = 0.3, p = 0.007) was found between nutrition knowledge and food score. Elite level players, aged 28-32, with college degrees, that have previously received nutritional guidance displayed the highest levels of both nutrition knowledge and food score. Higher levels of nutrition knowledge and food score were expected in elite players, however were only found in food score. Nutrition knowledge does contribute to dietary quality although future interventions should focus on specific gaps in knowledge such as how to meet total energy/carbohydrate requirements.		[Murphy, John] Dublin City Univ, Sch Arts Educ & Movement, Dublin, Ireland; [O'Reilly, James] Univ Chester, Dept Clin Sci & Nutr, Chester, Cheshire, England; [Murphy, John] Dublin City Univ, Sch Arts Educ & Movement, Dublin, Ireland								11							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000599595100001	53	Article; Article		
J	Didymus, Faye F.; Norman, Leanne; Hurst, Megan; Clarke, Nicola J.								Job stressors, strain, and psychological wellbeing among women sports coaches								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	3			456	464	1747954120974345	10.1177/1747954120974345			JUN 2021	2021	Despite a globally recognised need for inclusive diversity among sport workforces, women are underrepresented in the inherently stressful profession of sports coaching. This study aimed to work with women sports coaches to answer the following research questions: 1) What demographic and contract-related factors are associated with job stressors? 2) What associations exist between job stressors, strain, and psychological wellbeing (PWB) at work? Women coaches (n = 217) volunteered to complete the revised version of An Organizational Stress Screening Tool (ASSET). Path analyses identified several groups of coaches (head coaches, "other" coaches, disabled coaches) who experienced more job stressors related to their coaching work. They also highlighted the importance of workload stressors and their detrimental relationship with psychological and physical strain but positive relationship with sense of purpose (i.e., eudaimonic wellbeing). Collectively, these findings offer the first assessment of women coaches' job stressors, strain, and PWB, and offer insight to factors that may influence coaches' engagement with the profession. They also highlight intervention foci for national governing bodies that are seeking to protect the health and wellbeing of the women coaches within their workforce.		[Didymus, Faye F.; Norman, Leanne; Clarke, Nicola J.] Leeds Beckett Univ, Carnegie Sch Sport, Headingley Campus, Leeds LS6 3QS, W Yorkshire, England; [Hurst, Megan] Univ Sussex, Sch Psychol, Brighton, E Sussex, England; [Didymus, Faye F.] Leeds Beckett Univ, Carnegie Sch Sport, Headingley Campus, Leeds LS6 3QS, W Yorkshire, England								23							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000599549500001	34	Article; Article		
J	Cushman, Daniel M.; Petrin, Ziva; Eby, Sarah; Clements, Nathan D.; Haight, Peter; Snitily, Brian; Teramoto, Masaru								Ultrasound evaluation of the patellar tendon and Achilles tendon and its association with future pain in distance runners								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				49	4			410	419		10.1080/00913847.2020.1847004			OCT 2 2021	2021	Objectives: To examine whether asymptomatic ultrasonographic abnormalities in the Achilles and patellar tendons in runners are associated with an increased risk of pain development. Methods: This is a longitudinal, prospective cohort study with 139 runners recruited at a half and full marathon race. Ultrasound examination of the Achilles and patellar tendons was performed bilaterally the day prior to the race. Self-reported injury data were collected at 1, 3, 6 and 12 months. 104 (74.8%) runners were included in the data analysis. Results: Ultrasonographic tendon abnormalities were found in 24.1% of the Achilles and in 23.1% of the patellar tendons prior to the race. Runners with tendon abnormality were 2-3 times more likely to develop pain within 12 months than those without (relative risk = 3.14, p = 0.010 for Achilles; relative risk = 2.52, p = 0.008 for patellar tendon). After adjusting for gender, age, years of running, average miles per week of running over a year, and pre-race pain, runners with ultrasound abnormality were about 3 times (hazard ratio = 2.89, p = 0.039 for Achilles; hazard ratio = 2.73, p = 0.030 for patellar tendon) more likely to develop pain after the race. Tendon delamination was most strongly associated with pain in both the Achilles (relative risk = 6.00; p = 0.001) and patellar tendons (relative risk = 3.81; p = 0.001). Conclusions: Structural changes in asymptomatic tendons were found in almost 25% of runners. Presence of structural changes was associated with increased development of Achilles and patellar tendon pain within one year.		[Cushman, Daniel M.; Eby, Sarah; Teramoto, Masaru] Univ Utah, Salt Lake City, UT USA; [Petrin, Ziva] Rutgers New Jersey Med Sch, Dept Phys Med & Rehabil, Newark, NJ USA; [Clements, Nathan D.] Univ Texas San Antonio, Dept Phys Med & Rehabil, San Antonio, TX USA; [Haight, Peter] Univ Nevada, Reno Sch Med, Reno, NV 89557 USA; [Snitily, Brian] Orthoped Phys Associates, Seattle, WA USA; [Cushman, Daniel M.] Univ Utah, Div Phys Med & Rehabil, Salt Lake City, UT 84108 USA								26							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000592583300001	79	Article; Article		
J	Cox, Justin; Schwartz, Adam L.; Van Ness, Bonnie F.; Van Ness, Robert A.								The Predictive Power of College Football Spreads: Regular Season Versus Bowl Games								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				22	3			251	273	1527002520975837	10.1177/1527002520975837			APR 2021	2021	This paper compares the predictive accuracy and efficiency of college football point spreads for regular and bowl games. We find that the betting line spread is more accurate as a predictor of the eventual winner for college football games during the regular season than for the bowl games. Although the betting market is mostly efficient with regard to the favorite covering the spread, we do find several inefficiencies in the betting market for regular and bowl games within transaction costs. Specifically, we find the betting market to be an inefficient processor of momentum effects, particularly negative momentum.		[Cox, Justin] Appalachian State Univ, Boone, NC 28608 USA; [Schwartz, Adam L.] Bucknell Univ, Lewisburg, PA 17837 USA; [Van Ness, Bonnie F.; Van Ness, Robert A.] Univ Mississippi, Finance, University Pk, MS USA; [Van Ness, Bonnie F.] Univ Mississippi, Finance Dept Chair, University Pk, MS USA; [Van Ness, Robert A.] Univ Mississippi, University, MS 38677 USA								2							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000600601900001	36	Article; Article		
J	Wallace, Brian; Knudson, Duane								The effect of course format on student learning in introductory biomechanics courses that utilise low-tech active learning exercises								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	2			156	165		10.1080/14763141.2020.1830163			FEB 1 2024	2024	Low-tech active learning (AL) exercises in face-to-face (F2F) undergraduate biomechanics courses improve student learning vs. lecture alone. This study compared learning of biomechanics concepts with AL implemented in two course formats (hybrid: HB vs. F2F). Additional aims were to investigate if student perceptions of learning epistemology and learning factors were related to course format. Students (n = 110) in four introductory biomechanics courses (two F2F, two HB) completed the 24-question Biomechanics Concept Inventory (BCI) at the beginning and the end of the course to determine their learning of biomechanical concepts. An additional eight questions were given with the post-test to determine student perceptions of the AL exercises and their epistemology of learning. Learning in the HB format was equivalent to the F2F course format when both implement AL in these students. Student perceptions of AL were generally positive and learning scores consistent with previous research on AL in biomechanics. There were mixed results of the effect of course format with one significant difference of three ratings of the nature of learning biomechanics and one significant difference of four ratings of AL by students. These results should be replicated and potential interactions with student perceptions and characteristics explored.		[Wallace, Brian] Univ Wisconsin, Dept Kinesiol, Oshkosh, WI 54901 USA; [Knudson, Duane] Texas State Univ, Dept Hlth & Human Performance, San Marcos, TX USA; [Wallace, Brian] Univ Wisconsin, Dept Kinesiol, Oshkosh, WI 54901 USA								4							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000590626100001	33	Article; Article		
J	Amayo, Joshua; Tierney, Gregory J.								Does tackle height influence offload success in rugby union? Analysis from the 2019 Rugby World Cup								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	2			415	420	1747954120973660	10.1177/1747954120973660			APR 2021	2021	Offloads are an effective way of breaking through a defensive line in rugby union. Higher tackle heights are considered an effective strategy to defend against offloads. However, in a bid to reduce head injuries, there is a cultural shift within the rules of the game to tackle lower down on the body. This study used match video analysis of ten games from the 2019 Rugby World Cup to investigate whether tackle height influences offload success for the ball carrier. Each legal tackle was categorised based on tackle height (e.g. shoulder), player body position (e.g. upright), tackle type (e.g. shoulder tackle), tackle direction (e.g. front on) and player position (e.g. tight forwards). For each characteristic, the Odds Ratio (OR) and 95% Confidence Interval (CI) were calculated based on offload success outcome. Tackles at the hip (OR = 1.81, 95% CI 1.10 to 2.96, p = 0.018) and upper leg (OR = 1.94, 95% CI 1.30 to 2.90, p = 0.001) had a greater propensity to result in offload success while tackles at shoulder height reduced offload success (OR = 0.09, 95% CI 0.04 to 0.22, p < 0.001). A bent at the waist tackler against an upright ball carrier had a greater propensity to result in offload success (OR = 1.74, 95% CI 1.19 to 2.54, p = 0.004). Tackling lower increased the chances of offload success for the ball carrier. The cultural shift towards lower tackle heights is likely to result in an increased number of offloads and it is up to players, coaches and defensive systems to be able to adapt to this.		[Amayo, Joshua; Tierney, Gregory J.] Univ Leeds, Sch Biomed Sci, 4-02 Miall Bldg, Leeds LS2 9NL, W Yorkshire, England; [Tierney, Gregory J.] Univ Leeds, Sch Biomed Sci, 4-02 Miall Bldg, Leeds LS2 9NL, W Yorkshire, England								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000599890600001	21	Article; Article		
J	Mc Gee, Ursula; Sanders, Emma								Letter to the editor regarding the effect of isolation on athletes' mental health during the COVID-19 pandemic								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				49	3			245	245		10.1080/00913847.2020.1845582			JUL 3 2021	2021			[Mc Gee, Ursula] Univ Hosp Wales, Cardiff, Wales; [Sanders, Emma] NHS Wales Hlth Educ & Improvement, Nantgarw, Wales; [Mc Gee, Ursula] Univ Hosp Wales, Cardiff, Wales								2							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000589859900001	5	Article; Article		
J	Hermosilla Perona, Francisco; Machado, Leandro; Sousa, Filipa; Vilas-Boas, J. Paulo; Gonzalez Rave, Jose M.								Differences in force production and EMG activity on underwater and dry land conditions in swimmers and non-swimmers								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	1			1	14		10.1080/14763141.2020.1814401			JAN 2 2024	2024	This research aims to provide a better understanding of the swimming push-off specificity comparing force production and electromyographic (EMG) activity on squat-jumps (SJ) and countermovement-jumps (CMJ) performed underwater (similar to swimming turns push-off) and dryland conditions on two different level of expertise participants (swimmers and non-swimmers). Thirteen male swimmers and nine non-trained male sport sciences students participated in this study. Each subject carried out 10 CMJ and 10 SJ jumps in dryland (vertical) and underwater (horizontal). During these trials, force production was recorded by force platforms and muscular activity of Vastus Lateralis, Biceps Femoris, Gastrocnemius Medialis and Tibialis Anterior was analysed through EMG. A three-way ANOVA showed that swimmers increased the differences in values obtained from SJ to CMJ between dry and underwater conditions during the first impulse phase-Impulse 1 (p < 0.01), the second phase of impulse-Impulse 2 (p < 0.001) and duration from peak force to take off (p < 0.001) in contrast to non-swimmers. Patterns relating to force production and EMG were non-consistent between muscles. Jumping performance was not significantly correlated between dry land and underwater conditions; nevertheless, results emphasise that environmental constraints are decisive to define the neuro-motor response to apparently similar tasks performed in different contexts.		[Hermosilla Perona, Francisco; Gonzalez Rave, Jose M.] Univ Castilla La Mancha, Sport Training Lab, Fac Sport Sci, Toledo, Spain; [Hermosilla Perona, Francisco] Nebrija Univ, Fac Languages & Educ, Madrid, Spain; [Machado, Leandro; Sousa, Filipa; Vilas-Boas, J. Paulo] Univ Porto, Porto Biomech Lab, Ctr Res Educ Innovat & Intervent Sport, Fac Sport, Porto, Portugal; [Gonzalez Rave, Jose M.] Univ Castilla La Mancha, Sport Training Lab, Fac Sport Sci, Toledo, Spain								5							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000588508100001	25	Article; Article		
J	Ribeiro, Tiago; Almeida, Victor								The Rio's transport legacy: pre- and post-Games resident perceptions								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				22	1			32	52		10.1108/IJSMS-04-2020-0073			MAR 29 2021	2021	Purpose The Rio 2016 Olympic Games required a significant investment in the public transport systems, connecting four city's areas and providing different types of impacts and legacies for their hosts. The purpose of this paper is to examine resident perceptions of the public transportation issues in the Rio host city before and after the Games. Key factors underpinning transportation issue outcomes are identified. Design/methodology/approach Data were collected among Rio local residents by using a pre-Games (n = 504) and post-Games design (n = 421). The cross-sectional and longitudinal data were assessed at both time periods. An exploratory factor analysis revealed five factors, and a confirmatory factor analysis analysed the psychometric properties of the constructs proposed. Subsequently, MANOVA and a series of ANOVA tests (one-way and paired samples) were performed to analyse the differences in perceptions before and after the Games. Findings Results revealed a five-factor model of public transportation issues perceived: planning, infrastructure, insecurity, information and urban mobility. Resident perceptions for four factors (planning, infrastructure, insecurity, urban mobility) increased from pre- to post-Games, meaning that they have a more negative perspective about those issues. In contrast, the findings suggested an improvement in public transport information perceived between the period before and after the Games. Originality/value This study contributes to the academic literature related to discussing the Olympic legacy by providing evidence of how hosting the Olympics may lead to social exchange with negative outcomes on transport legacy. The findings of this study can be used as valuable information for future event organizers, local authorities and governments.		[Ribeiro, Tiago] Univ Lisbon, Fac Human Kinet, Lisbon, Portugal; [Ribeiro, Tiago] Augusto Motta Univ Ctr, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil; [Almeida, Victor] Univ Fed Rio de Janeiro, COPPEAD Grad Sch, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil; [Ribeiro, Tiago] Univ Lisbon, Fac Human Kinet, Lisbon, Portugal; [Ribeiro, Tiago] Augusto Motta Univ Ctr, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil								11							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000590891900001	75	Article; Article		
J	Zhu, Xihe; Haegele, Justin A.; Holland, Steven K.								Cardiorespiratory Fitness Growth in Middle School: Socio-Demographic Factor Associations								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				93	2			333	340		10.1080/02701367.2020.1834492			APR 3 2022	2022	Purpose: The purposes of this study were to (a) examine the three-year longitudinal growth trends of cardiorespiratory fitness among middle school students, and (b) examine the associations between individual and school-level socio-demographic variables and middle school student cardiorespiratory fitness performance. Methods: A longitudinal multilevel analysis design was used. Participants were adolescents (N = 44,801; 48.1% girls) from 33 middle schools in an Eastern U.S. state. The grand mean age for the participants was 12.42 +/- 0.98 years old. Individual-level variables included grade (testing year), sex, and the 15-m Progressive Aerobic Cardiovascular Endurance Run (PACER) performance, which was measured annually for 3 years. School-level variables included the percentage of students receiving a free and reduced-price meal, student-faculty ratio for physical education, and school-level academic performance. Results: A three-level hierarchical linear model was used to model the longitudinal performance change across 3 years accounting for individual and school-level factors. A quadratic growth curve was identified in PACER performance changes, with a positive first-order coefficient (beta = 3.05) and a negative second-order coefficient (beta =-0.82) overall. Sex was significantly associated with PACER changes (p < .01), with boys and girls having divergent longitudinal growth curves. School-level academic performance was positively associated with PACER performance; however, the association was not statistically significant. Conclusion: Results indicate that although cardiorespiratory fitness improved across years, on average, performance did not keep up with healthy fitness zone recommendations. In addition, sex-based discrepancies were evident as boys and girls demonstrated different quadratic growth curves in cardiorespiratory fitness.		[Zhu, Xihe; Haegele, Justin A.; Holland, Steven K.] Old Dominion Univ, Norfolk, VA 23529 USA; [Zhu, Xihe] Old Dominion Univ, Darden Coll Educ & Profess Studies, Dept Human Movement Sci, Norfolk, VA 23529 USA								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000586121800001	30	Article; Article		
J	Zhao, Yangqing; Zhang, Hui								Effective playing time in the Chinese Super League								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	2			398	406	1747954120965751	10.1177/1747954120965751			APR 2021	2021	The purpose of this study was to analyse the effective playing time during the 2012-2018 Chinese Super League seasons. A linear mixed model with crossed random effects was used to assess the effects of match and technique characteristics on effective playing time. The key findings are as follows. (1) Matches played between the top eight teams, a tie at half time and increased audience participation were associated with reduced effective playing time; (2) The effective playing time tended to be smaller in matches with red cards than in matches without red cards. In contrast, the effective playing time did not significantly vary among the outcomes of the matches; (3) Game interruptions (goals, corner-kicks, free-kicks and throw-ins) and destructive actions (yellow cards, red cards and fouls) had a significant negative impact on the effective playing time, while productive actions (shots on target) had a significant positive impact on the effective playing time.		[Zhao, Yangqing; Zhang, Hui] Zhejiang Univ, Dept Sport Sci, Coll Educ, Hangzhou 310058, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Hui] Zhejiang Univ, Dept Sport Sci, Coll Educ, Hangzhou 310058, Peoples R China								10							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000598458600001	34	Article; Article		
J	Campbell, Rhiannon A.; Bradshaw, Elizabeth J.; Ball, Nick; Hunter, Adam; Spratford, Wayne								Inertial measurement units are 'all g': Inter-trial reliability when assessing upper and lower body impact loading in artistic gymnastics								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	2			380	390	1747954120970310	10.1177/1747954120970310			APR 2021	2021	The magnitude of loading artistic gymnasts experience during training is currently unknown. Inertial measurement units (IMUs) could assess loading, although the reliability of these devices must be established prior to implementation into the training environment. This study aimed to determine inter-trial reliability of using IMeasureU Blue Thunder IMUs to assess upper and lower limb loading when performing foundation gymnastics skills. A secondary aim investigated the effect of raw and filtered acceleration signals on reliability results. Sixteen competitive level artistic gymnasts (male, n = 8; female, n = 8) performed seven gymnastics skills while wearing four IMUs (upper back, lower back, forearm and tibia). The peak resultant acceleration (PRA) during ground contact for all skills was exported from raw and filtered acceleration data (fourth-order zero-lag Butterworth filter with 85 Hz cut-off). Descriptive statistics (median and inter-quartile range), Friedman's ANOVA, intra-class correlations, coefficient of variation, mean difference and Cohen's effect sizes were calculated. Overall, the IMU PRA measures showed very good inter-trial reliability, however filtered signals improved reliability statistics for five variables compared to raw. The forearm- and tibia-mounted IMUs demonstrated improved reliability (very good reliability) compared to back positions (good reliability). IMUs are considered reliable devices to measure upper and lower limb loading in gymnastics.		[Campbell, Rhiannon A.; Ball, Nick; Spratford, Wayne] Univ Canberra, Res Inst Sport & Exercise, Canberra, ACT, Australia; [Campbell, Rhiannon A.] Australian Inst Sport, Appl Technol & Innovat, Canberra, ACT, Australia; [Bradshaw, Elizabeth J.] Deakin Univ, Sch Exercise & Nutr Sci, Ctr Sport Res, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Bradshaw, Elizabeth J.] Auckland Univ Technol, Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand, Auckland, New Zealand; [Ball, Nick; Spratford, Wayne] Univ Canberra, Fac Hlth, Discipline Sport & Exercise Sci, Canberra, ACT, Australia; [Hunter, Adam] Australian Inst Sport, Performance Serv, Canberra, ACT, Australia; [Campbell, Rhiannon A.] Univ Canberra, Res Inst Sport & Exercise, Fac Hlth, Canberra, ACT, Australia								9							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000598516600001	40	Article; Article		
J	Mitchell, Scott; Tierney, Gregory J.								Sanctioning of breakdown infringements during the knockout stage of the 2019 rugby world cup								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	2			407	414	1747954120970922	10.1177/1747954120970922			APR 2021	2021	The breakdown is a complex and dynamic facet of rugby union, often containing multiple players from each team. It is the responsibility of coaches and trainers to ensure players are prepared to comply with the World Rugby laws of the game to encourage safe and fair play between all participants. The aim of this study was to investigate player adherence and sanctioning of infringements at the breakdown during the knockout stages of the 2019 Rugby World Cup. Breakdown infringements according to World Rugby laws were identified using match video recordings of the 8 matches. Each breakdown was individually analysed by coding any infringement that had occurred and the sanctioning outcome of the breakdown. A total of 898 breakdowns were coded, of which 37.7% (n = 339) were deemed to involve illegal play. 79.9% of breakdowns involving illegal play were not penalised with the majority of infringements being "head and shoulders below hips" (33.5%, n = 163), "off feet" (13%, n = 63) and "offside" (10.5%, n = 51). The attacking team were responsible for 70.0% (n = 340) of all breakdown infringements despite being penalised less than the defending team. A high number of infringements occurred at the breakdown and went unsanctioned in the knockout stages of the 2019 Rugby World Cup. Future work focused on technology, training or rule amendments may be required to improve player adherence and sanctioning of infringements at the breakdown, such that they protect players and are in keeping with the dynamics of the modern game.		[Mitchell, Scott; Tierney, Gregory J.] Univ Leeds, Sch Biomed Sci, 4-02 Miall Bldg, Leeds LS2 9NL, W Yorkshire, England; [Tierney, Gregory J.] Univ Leeds, Sch Biomed Sci, 4-02 Miall Bldg, Leeds LS2 9NL, W Yorkshire, England								34							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000598407500001	26	Article; Article		
J	Turner, Kirstie J.; Rice, Anthony J.								Physiological responses on the Concept II BikeErg and Concept II RowErg in well-trained male rowers								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	3			741	748	1747954120968183	10.1177/1747954120968183			JUN 2021	2021	Stationary cycling is a common training mode of rowers, used to provide variety in training programs and prevent overuse injuries commonly associated with the repetitive nature of the rowing stroke. The purpose of this study was to investigate the differences in physiological responses on a Concept II BikeErg (Concept II BikeErg; Concept2 Inc., US) and Concept II RowErg (Concept II Model D; Concept2 Inc., US) at matched submaximal workloads so training load can be appropriately prescribed for stationary cycling. Ten well-trained, male rowers completed 6min of exercise at four submaximal workloads (50%, 62.5%, 75% and 87.5% of their most recent 2000m RowErg score) interspersed with 2-minute recovery periods on both ergometers in a single day. Ergometer order was randomised and balanced between groups. At matched power output (PO) results while on the RowErg were significantly higher across all workloads for rate of oxygen consumption ((V) over dotO(2)), rate of carbon dioxide production ((V) over dotCO(2)), minute ventilation ((V) over dot(E)) and heart rate (HR) (p< 0.05) and across the final two workloads for Rating of Perceived Exertion (RPE) and blood lactate concentration (BLa) (p< 0.05). When oxygen uptake at a fixed value ((V) over dotO(2) = 3.5 L.min(-1)) was matched between groups results while on the RowErg were significantly lower for PO, BLa, (V) over dotCO(2), RER and RPE whereas (V) over dot(E) and HR were similar to the BikeErg. These results support the understanding that displayed power output on the RowErg does not account for all work done during the rowing stroke cycle, specifically during the recovery phase. In conclusion, the physiological responses on the Concept II BikeErg are no more closely aligned to the Concept II RowErg than previously shown for similar cycle ergometers from different manufacturers. Due to the lack of consistency between Concept II BikeErg and Concept II RowErg PO, HR is better suited for the prescription of training loads on the BikeErg.		[Turner, Kirstie J.] Ulster Univ, Sch Sport, Coleraine, Londonderry, North Ireland; [Rice, Anthony J.] Rowing Australia, Sport Sci, Canberra, ACT, Australia; [Turner, Kirstie J.] Ulster Univ, Sch Sport, Coleraine, Londonderry, North Ireland								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000598453500001	15	Article; Article		
J	Skibski, Andrew; Burkholder, Erin; Goetschius, John								Transverse abdominis activity and ultrasound biofeedback in college golfers with and without low back pain								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				46				249	253		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.10.004			NOV 2020	2020	Objectives: To compare transverse abdominis (TrA) muscle activity in college golfers with and without a history of low back pain (LBP) and examine the effects of ultrasound biofeedback and a functional golf-setup position on TrA activity. Design: Crossover study. Setting: Laboratory. Participants: Thirty-two (n = 32) collegiate golfers were stratified into either the LBP group (n = 16, 4.6 +/- 4.5 LBP episodes) or non-LBP group (n = 16, 0.1 +/- 0.3 LBP episodes) based on LBP episodes in the last 6-months. Main outcome measures: Ultrasound measures of TrA activity were performed during standard contractions and contractions with ultrasound biofeedback. Contraction-type order was randomized between two visits. Testing was performed in two positions, supine and golf-setup positions. Results: We observed no significant differences in TrA activity between the LBP and non-LBP groups. Overall, TrA activity was greater during biofeedback contractions compared to standard contractions, and TrA activity was lower in the golf-setup position compared to the supine position. Conclusions: We observed no differences in TrA activity between college golfers with and without LBP. College golfers with and without LBP demonstrated a greater ability to contract their TrA with real-time ultrasound biofeedback and a lower ability to contract their TrA in the functional golf-setup position compared to the traditional supine position. (c) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Skibski, Andrew; Burkholder, Erin] Adrian Coll, Dept Exercise Sci & Athlet Training, Adrian, MI USA; [Goetschius, John] James Madison Univ, Dept Hlth Profess, Harrisonburg, VA 22807 USA; [Goetschius, John] James Madison Univ, Dept Hlth Profess, Harrisonburg, VA 22807 USA								8							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000594531200031	30	Article; Article		
J	Coombes, Brooke K.; Mendis, M. Dilani; Hides, Julie A.								Evaluation of patellar tendinopathy using the single leg decline squat test: Is pain location important?								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				46				254	259		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.10.002			NOV 2020	2020	Study design: A cross-sectional study of non-elite volleyball players aged 13-17years. Objectives: To evaluate the presence and location of pain during the single leg decline squat (SLDS) and compare patellar tendon thickness, structure, neovascularisation and symptom severity between SLDS-derived groups. Methods: 32 male and 25 female participants attending a 5-day volleyball training camp underwent clinical evaluation by SLDS, describing the location of pain during this test using a pain map. The patellar tendon was examined using ultrasound imaging, performed by an assessor blinded to other assessments. Differences between participants experiencing local patellar tendon pain (PTP), other knee pain (OKP) or no-pain during the SLDS were evaluated. Results: Fifteen (26.3%) participants experienced pain during the SLDS. Local PTP was recorded for 12.3% and OKP for 10.5% of right legs. The PTP group was distinguished from the other groups by larger thickness and cross-sectional area of the mid-patellar tendon (p < 0.001), more frequent neovascularisation (p = 0.005) and greater pain and disability (p < 0.036). No differences between OKP and no-pain groups was observed. Conclusion: Adolescent non-elite volleyball players reported symptoms indicative of patellar tendinopathy. In this cohort, the SLDS test combined with a pain map was associated with imaging and questionnaire-based outcomes. Level of evidence: Diagnosis, Level 2; Cross-sectional study. (c) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Coombes, Brooke K.; Mendis, M. Dilani; Hides, Julie A.] Griffith Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Sci, 170 Kessels Rd, Nathan, Qld 4111, Australia; [Coombes, Brooke K.; Mendis, M. Dilani; Hides, Julie A.] Griffith Univ, Menzies Hlth Inst Queensland, Nathan, Qld, Australia; [Coombes, Brooke K.] Griffith Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Sci, 170 Kessels Rd, Nathan, Qld 4111, Australia								11							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000594531200032	22	Article; Article		
J	Karuc, Josip; Misigoj-Durakovic, Marjeta; Markovic, Goran; Hadzic, Vedran; Duncan, Michael J.; Podnar, Hrvoje; Soric, Maroje								Movement quality in adolescence depends on the level and type of physical activity								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				46				194	203		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.09.006			NOV 2020	2020	Objectives: This study examined the relationship between functional movement and physical activity (PA) levels in adolescents. Design: Cross-sectional study. Setting: This research is a part of the CRO-PALS longitudinal study conducted in a random sample of adolescents in Zagreb at the Faculty of Kinesiology, University of Zagreb, Croatia. Participants: Seven hundred and twenty-five adolescents aged between 16 and 17 years were included. Main outcome measure: Total Functional Movement Screen score (total FMS score). Results: After adjusting for age, body fat and SES, both VPA and MVPA showed minor but significant effects on total FMS score among girls (beta = 0.011, p = 0.001, beta = 0.005, p = 0.006, respectively), but not in boys (beta = 0.004, p = 0.158; beta = 0.000, p = 0.780). Regarding PA type, volleyball and dance improved total FMS score (beta = 1.003, p = 0.071; beta = 0.972, p = 0.043, respectively), while football was associated with lower FMS score (beta =-0.569, p = 0.118). Conclusion: Results suggest that the PA level is positively associated with the functional movement in adolescent girls, but not in boys, where the type of PA moderates these associations. Therefore, functional movement patterns incorporated into physical education curriculum could be beneficial to the musculoskeletal health of the children. (c) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Karuc, Josip; Misigoj-Durakovic, Marjeta; Soric, Maroje] Univ Zagreb, Fac Kinesiol, Dept Sport & Exercise Med, Phys Act Measurement & Surveillance Lab, Horvacanski Zavoj 15, Zagreb 10000, Croatia; [Markovic, Goran] Univ Zagreb, Fac Kinesiol, Dept Kinesiol Sport, Zagreb, Croatia; [Hadzic, Vedran] Univ Ljubljana, Fac Sport, Dept Sport & Exercise Med, Ljubljana, Slovenia; [Duncan, Michael J.] Coventry Univ, Sch Life Sci, Coventry, W Midlands, England; [Podnar, Hrvoje] Univ Zagreb, Fac Kinesiol, Dept Gen & Appl Kinesiol, Zagreb, Croatia; [Karuc, Josip] Rapska 37c, Zagreb 10000, Croatia								8							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000594531200024	45	Article; Article		
J	Rabin, Alon; Druckmann, Ido; Chechik, Ofir								Shoulder pain and scapular dyskinesis associated with lower trapezius dysplasia - A case report								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				46				104	112		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.08.007			NOV 2020	2020	Background: Scapular dyskinesis (SD) has been associated with shoulder soft-tissue tightness as well scapular muscle strength and/or activation deficits. Inadequate development of the trapezius muscle (trapezius dysplasia) is a relatively rare condition inconsistently associated with shoulder dysfunction. Case description: a 24-year old male complaining of left scapular area pain associated with SD and scapular muscle weakness was noted to present with a smaller ipsilateral lower trapezius (LT). Further inquiry including electromyography, rehabilitative ultrasound imaging (RUSI) and magnetic resonance imaging ruled out nerve palsy and demonstrated a hypoplastic left LT. This led to a greater emphasis on serratus anterior (SA) training along with the addition of neuromuscular electrical stimulation of the LT. Outcomes: Following 12 sessions over a 5-month period the patient reported no pain or functional deficits, and was able to resume all recreational activities. The patient's subjective shoulder value increased from 55% to 80%, and LT strength was markedly improved. Discussion: Scapular muscle dysplasia may represent a less recognized cause of SD. A more thorough inspection of scapular muscle shape and orientation, possibly augmented by RUSI may be indicated in patients presenting with SD. Neuromuscular electrical stimulation is a potentially useful modality for addressing scapular muscle activation and strength deficits and future research into its efficacy under these circumstances may be warranted. (c) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Rabin, Alon] Ariel Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Ariel, Israel; [Druckmann, Ido] Tel Aviv Med Ctr & Sch Med, Dept Radiol, Musculoskeletal Imaging Unit, Tel Aviv, Israel; [Druckmann, Ido; Chechik, Ofir] Tel Aviv Univ, Sackler Sch Med, Tel Aviv, Israel; [Chechik, Ofir] Tel Aviv Med Ctr & Sch Med, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Shoulder Surg Unit, Tel Aviv, Israel; [Rabin, Alon] Ariel Univ Ctr, Dept Physiotherapy, POB 3, Ariel, Israel								2							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000594531200013	59	Article; Article		
J	Kaur, Mandeep; Ribeiro, Daniel Cury; Webster, Kate E.; Sole, Gisela								Knee biomechanics while navigating steps in participants with anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction, between 2 and 10 years following surgery								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				46				70	76		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.08.003			NOV 2020	2020	Objective: To compare knee angles and moments between the injured and contralateral knee in par-ticipants with anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction, and compared with uninjured controls while navigating steps. Design: Cross-sectional study. Setting: University laboratory-based study. Participants: Twenty-five participants (30.8 +/- 9.7 years; 13 women) with anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction (2-10 years post-surgery), and 24 controls (31.0 +/- 10 years, 13 women). Main outcome measures: Three-dimensional motion analysis was used to record peak knee angles and external moments during step ascent and descent in three planes, along with spatiotemporal variables. Results: During step ascent, the reconstructed knee exhibited significantly: (1) lower peak flexion angles compared to the controls (P = 0.005); (2) lower flexion moments (P < 0.001) compared to contralateral side and controls. No significant differences were found in the frontal and transverse planes between groups and sides. During step descent, no significant differences in angles and moments were found. Conclusions: Side-to-side asymmetries and lower knee flexion angles and external knee flexion moments were evident in participants with anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction and compared to controls. These findings suggest that incomplete recovery and compensatory or protective changes in neuromuscular control and joint function may persist 2-10 years post-surgery. (c) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Kaur, Mandeep; Ribeiro, Daniel Cury; Sole, Gisela] Univ Otago, Ctr Hlth Act & Rehabil Res, Sch Physiotherapy, Dunedin 9010, New Zealand; [Webster, Kate E.] La Trobe Univ, Sch Allied Hlth, Bundoora, Vic, Australia; [Kaur, Mandeep] Univ Virginia, Dept Kinesiol, Charlottesville, VA 22903 USA; [Sole, Gisela] Univ Otago, Ctr Hlth Act & Rehabil Res, Sch Physiotherapy, Dunedin 9010, New Zealand								11							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000594531200009	38	Article; Article		
J	Kunugi, Shun; Koumura, Takashi; Myotsuzono, Ryota; Masunari, Akihiko; Yoshida, Naruto; Miyakawa, Shumpei; Mukai, Naoki								Ankle laxity affects ankle kinematics during a side-cutting task in male collegiate soccer athletes without perceived ankle instability								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				46				89	96		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.08.012			NOV 2020	2020	Objectives: To investigate whether ankle joint laxity alone influences lower limb kinematics during a side-cutting task. Design: A cross-sectional study. Setting: Sports medicine research laboratory. Participants: In total, 66 male collegiate soccer players with history of ankle sprains with no perceived ankle instability were categorised into three groups: no-laxity copers (n = 26), laxity copers (n = 23), and severe-laxity copers (n = 17). Main outcome measures: The hip, knee, ankle, rearfoot, midfoot, and forefoot kinematic data during the stance phase (0%-10 0% indicated initial contact to take-off) of a 45 degrees side-cutting task were analysed using one-dimensional statistical parametric mapping. Results: The horizontal plane kinematics of the rearfoot differed significantly among the three groups during 30%-91% of the stance phase (P < .05). Severe-laxity copers exhibited a greater external rotation angle than no-laxity copers during 6%-14% and 32%-92% of the stance phase (P < .05). Conclusion: Our data suggest that severe ankle joint laxity affects rearfoot horizontal plane kinematics in individuals without perceived ankle instability performing a 45 degrees side-cutting task. These findings could be used by clinicians in developing rehabilitation programs to prevent further ankle sprains in patients with severe ankle joint laxity. (c) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Kunugi, Shun] Chukyo Univ, Fac Liberal Arts & Sci, Showa Ku, 101-2 Yagoto Honmachi, Nagoya, Aichi 4668666, Japan; [Koumura, Takashi] Univ Tsukuba, Grad Sch Comprehens Human Sci, Dept Sports Med, 1-1-1 Tennodai, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 3058577, Japan; [Myotsuzono, Ryota] Kyushu Kyoritsu Univ, Fac Sports Sci, Kitakyushu Yahatanishi Ku, 1-8 Jiyugaoka, Fukuoka 8078585, Japan; [Masunari, Akihiko] Tokyo Verdy Inc, 4051-1 Yanokuchi, Tokyo 2060812, Japan; [Yoshida, Naruto] Teikyo Heisei Univ, Fac Hlth Care, Dept Acupuncture & Moxibus, Toshima Ku, 2-51-4 Higashi Ikebukuro, Tokyo 1708445, Japan; [Miyakawa, Shumpei] Univ Tsukuba, Fac Med, 1-1-1 Tennodai, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 3058577, Japan; [Mukai, Naoki] Univ Tsukuba, Fac Hlth & Sport Sci, 1-1-1 Tennodai, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 3058577, Japan; [Kunugi, Shun] Chukyo Univ, Fac Liberal Arts & Sci, Showa Ku, 101-2 Yagoto Honmachi, Nagoya, Aichi 4668666, Japan								3							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000594531200011	30	Article; Article		
J	Moreno-Perez, Victor; Mendez-Villanueva, Alberto; Soler, Aitor; Del Coso, Juan; Courel-Ibanez, Javier								No relationship between the nordic hamstring and two different isometric strength tests to assess hamstring muscle strength in professional soccer players								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				46				97	103		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.08.009			NOV 2020	2020	Objectives: To investigate the relationship between one eccentric and two isometric tests commonly used to assess hamstring strength in professional soccer. Settings: Professional soccer club. Design: Cross-sectional study. Participants: Twenty male professional soccer players. Main outcome measures: Hamstring force was quantified during 3 tests (Nordic hamstring eccentric, 90:20 isometric posterior-chain strength and isometric 15 degrees knee flexion) using a load cell, a handheld dynamometer and a force platform, respectively. Results: Poor relationships and low concordance were observed between isometric and eccentric tests, showing different ability to discriminate hamstring weakness and asymmetries. The Nordic hamstring test identified between-limb asymmetry >15% in 30% of the players, 25% in the 15 degrees knee flexion and 5% in the 90:20 test. All players obtained different results in the three tests with only one showing asymmetry >15% in two tests. Conclusion: Results obtained in each test cannot inform the others. Mechanical outputs of these tests must be used for particular purposes during the prevention, rehabilitation and monitoring process of hamstring injury. Isometric testing might be preferable during the initial phases of the recovery process of a hamstring injury while the Nordic hamstring test might be used in the last stages or detect muscle weakness/asymmetries in non-injured players. (c) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Moreno-Perez, Victor] Miguel Hernandez Univ Elche, Sports Res Ctr, Alicante, Spain; [Moreno-Perez, Victor] Miguel Hernandez Univ Elche, Ctr Translat Res Physiotherapy, Dept Pathol & Surg, San Joan, Spain; [Mendez-Villanueva, Alberto] Qatar Football Assoc, Doha, Qatar; [Soler, Aitor] Elche Club Futbol, Med & Performance Dept, Alicante, Spain; [Del Coso, Juan] Rey Juan Carlos Univ, Ctr Sport Studies, Madrid, Spain; [Courel-Ibanez, Javier] Univ Murcia, Fac Sport Sci, C Argentina S-N, Murcia, Spain; [Courel-Ibanez, Javier] Univ Murcia, Fac Sport Sci, C Argentina S-N, Murcia, Spain								26							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000594531200012	28	Article; Article		
J	Garcia, Steven A.; Rodriguez, Kazandra M.; Krishnan, Chandramouli; Palmieri-Smith, Riann M.								Type of measurement used in fl uences central and peripheral contributions to quadriceps weakness after anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) reconstruction								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				46				14	22		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.08.001			NOV 2020	2020	Objective: The relative contribution of muscle size and voluntary activation (VA) on quadriceps strength after anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) reconstruction remains inconclusive. Here, we aimed to determine the contributions of muscle size and VA on quadriceps strength in ACL-reconstructed patients and determine if contributions were similar if unilateral outcomes (i.e. ACL-reconstructed limb) or the LSI was used. Design: A cross-sectional study. Setting: A university research laboratory. Participants: Sixteen individuals 6-12 months after ACL reconstruction (Age: 22.3 6.0yr, Height: 1.7 0.1 m, Mass: 68.7 +/- 11.5 kg) were recruited. Main outcome measures: Quadriceps isometric strength and VA, via the interpolated triplet technique, were assessed bilaterally. Ultrasound images were acquired of the vastus lateralis to calculate cross-sectional area (CSA) in both legs. LSI's were computed for all variables by expressing values of the reconstructed leg as a percent of the non-reconstructed leg. Separate stepwise linear regressions were performed to examine the contribution of VA and CSA on quadriceps strength. Model 1 used LSI for all outcomes and model 2 used outcomes from the reconstructed leg. Results: We observed between limb deficits of 27.78% in quadriceps strength, 13.61% in vastus lateralis CSA, and 13.18% in VA (P < 0.05). Strength LSI was significantly predicted by VA LSI (R2 = 0.45, P < 0.01), but not by CSA LSI (R-2 = 0.01, P =0.87). Reconstructed leg strength was significantly predicted by VL CSA (R-2 = 0.50, P < 0.01) but not quadriceps VA (R-2 = 0.08, P =0.11). Conclusions: The contributions of VA and CSA on quadriceps PT differed greatly if LSI or reconstructed leg outcomes were used. Evaluation of VA and CSA in unison may be provide a more holistic understanding of the sources of muscle weakness after ACL reconstruction. (c) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Garcia, Steven A.; Rodriguez, Kazandra M.; Krishnan, Chandramouli; Palmieri-Smith, Riann M.] Univ Michigan, Sch Kinesiol, Ann Arbor, MI 48109 USA; [Krishnan, Chandramouli] Univ Michigan, Dept Phys Med & Rehabil, Ann Arbor, MI 48109 USA; [Krishnan, Chandramouli] Univ Michigan, Robot Inst, Ann Arbor, MI 48109 USA; [Palmieri-Smith, Riann M.] Michigan Med, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Ann Arbor, MI USA; [Palmieri-Smith, Riann M.] Univ Michigan, Orthopaed Rehabil & Biomech Lab, Ann Arbor, MI 48109 USA; [Krishnan, Chandramouli] Univ Michigan, Neuromuscular & Rehabil Robot Lab, Ann Arbor, MI 48109 USA; [Palmieri-Smith, Riann M.] Univ Michigan, Sch Kinesiol, Ann Arbor, MI 48109 USA								10							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000594531200003	54	Article; Article		
J	Shoffner, Sara; Slavich, Mark; Koo, Gi-Yong								New jerseys: exploring the influence of NBA team jersey sponsorships on teams and sponsors								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				22	4			633	651		10.1108/IJSMS-10-2019-0111			OCT 12 2021	2021	Purpose In 2017, the National Basketball Association (NBA) became the first major professional North American sport league to adopt jersey sponsorship. While professional leagues across the globe have allowed this practice for decades, the NBA's decision marked what may be the start of a new trend in North American sport sponsorship. With this in mind, the current study sought to assess the impact of fans' perceptions of these sponsorships on sponsor- and team-related outcomes. Design/methodology/approach An online sample of 301 NBA fans across the United States was conducted through Amazon's MTurk. Findings Results exhibited the importance of sponsorship authenticity, which maintained the strongest influence on sponsor- and team-related outcomes. Brand-team fit, sponsorship familiarity and sponsorship identification were also assessed, with mixed results for each factor. Originality/value Results of these findings related to sponsorship authenticity and consequent practical and theoretical implications are discussed, and areas for future research are provided.		[Shoffner, Sara] Huntingdon Coll, Sport Management, Montgomery, AL USA; [Slavich, Mark] Grand View Univ, Business Adm, Des Moines, IA 50316 USA; [Koo, Gi-Yong] Troy Univ, Troy, AL USA; [Slavich, Mark] Grand View Univ, Business Adm, Des Moines, IA 50316 USA								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000586370800001	83	Article; Article		
J	Ogawa, Tetsuya; Kobayashi, Hirofumi; Kuwata, Masumi; Obata, Hiroki; Shinya, Masahiro; Ijiri, Tetsuya; Miki, Takeshi; Nakazawa, Kimitaka								Cross-sectional comparison of the probabilistic structure in the distribution of pitching location among baseball pitchers of different ages								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	1			81	94		10.1080/14763141.2020.1822908			JAN 2 2024	2024	The present study was a cross-sectional comparison of probabilistic structure in the distribution of pitching location among baseball pitchers of various age groups (25 elementary school (ES), 20 junior high school (JH), 15 high school (HS), and 18 college students (CL)). In the results, despite the general age-dependent variations in pitching precision, the difference was reflected not only in error 'size' but also in the 'shape' of error as it was shown by fitting 95% confidence ellipse to the two dimensional distribution of pitch location. While the precision measure as a reflection of trial-by-trial variability of release timing (major axis length of the ellipse) was constant, minor axis length of the ellipse as a reflection of variability in the pitching form of each participant demonstrated significant differences among the groups. In the ES group particularly, the trial-by-trial variability in the trajectory angle of the throwing arm was significantly correlated with the minor axis length; this correlation was far greater than those in older groups. The present study is the first to demonstrate the detailed structure of the variability of pitching location of baseball dependent on age.		[Ogawa, Tetsuya; Kobayashi, Hirofumi; Kuwata, Masumi; Obata, Hiroki; Shinya, Masahiro; Ijiri, Tetsuya; Miki, Takeshi; Nakazawa, Kimitaka] Univ Tokyo, Grad Sch Arts & Sci, Tokyo, Japan; [Nakazawa, Kimitaka] Univ Tokyo, Grad Sch Arts & Sci, Tokyo, Japan								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000586974300001	25	Article; Article		
J	Wehlmann, Julian Alexander; Wulf, Gabriele								Bullseye: Effects of autonomy support and enhanced expectancies on dart throwing								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	2			317	323	1747954120967788	10.1177/1747954120967788			APR 2021	2021	The present study examined the combined influence of two motivational key factors in the OPTIMAL theory of motor learning,(1) enhanced expectancies (EE) and autonomy support (AS), on the learning of a dart-throwing task. In one group (AS/EE), participants were provided with a success criterion that could be met relatively easily (EE) and two small choices (AS). A control group practiced under neutral conditions. On Day 1, participants completed a pretest and six 12-trial blocks of practice from a 2m distance to the bullseye. Two days later, retention and transfer (novel distance of 2.37 m) tests were conducted. Self-efficacy was assessed throughout the practice phase and before the retention test. The results showed that the AS/EE group had higher self-efficacy during practice and demonstrated greater dartthrowing accuracy on the retention and transfer tests compared with the control group. The findings have implications for practical settings: They show that providing learners with a liberal definition of success and minor choices can be sufficient to enhance motor skill learning.		[Wehlmann, Julian Alexander] Friedrich Schiller Univ Jena, Inst Sports Sci, Jena, Germany; [Wulf, Gabriele] Univ Nevada, Dept Kinesiol & Nutr Sci, Las Vegas, NV 89154 USA; [Wehlmann, Julian Alexander] Univ Jena, Inst Sportwissensch, Seidelstr 20, D-07749 Jena, Germany								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000598463900001	44	Article; Article		
J	Pirruccio, Kevin; Selemon, Nicolas A.; Ahn, Jaimo; Cahill, Patrick J.; Baldwin, Keith D.								American football is the youth sporting activity most commonly associated with acute vertebral fractures								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				49	3			348	354		10.1080/00913847.2020.1838874			JUL 3 2021	2021	Objectives Athletics confer cardiovascular fitness and improved cognitive processing in pediatric populations. However, one risk of sports participation is acute vertebral fracture, an injury with significant morbidity. It is currently unknown which sports represent the highest risk of acute vertebral fracture in pediatric populations. This study seeks to identify the youth sporting activities most commonly associated with acute vertebral fractures presenting to United States (U.S.) emergency departments (EDs). Methods This cross-sectional, retrospective study queries the National Electronic Injury Surveillance System database to report national weighted estimates and demographic characteristics of pediatric patients with acute vertebral fractures presenting to U.S. EDs. Results The mean annual incidence of estimated acute vertebral fractures over the study period was 1,672 (C.I. 1,217-2,126). From 2000-2001 (N = 4,030; C.I. 2,934-5,125) to 2016-2017 (N = 2,559; C.I. 1,681-3,438), there was no significant change in the estimated rate of sports-related acute vertebral fractures in pediatric patients (p = 0.09). American football was identified as the sport most frequently associated with acute vertebral fractures (23.4%; C.I. 17.6-29.3%). We found no appreciable change in the rate of football-related acute vertebral fractures over time, with 48.2% (C.I. 37.3-59.0%) occurring from 2000 to 2008 and 51.8% (C.I. 41.0-62.7%) from 2009 to 2017. Conclusions While sports-related acute vertebral fractures remain rare injuries in pediatric populations, we identify youth football as the sport associated with the highest risk of such injuries. Despite decreasing football participation rates over our study period, the annual incidence of football-associated acute vertebral fractures has not exhibited a proportional decline. Our findings raise concern that the relative risk of acute vertebral fracture associated with youth football has not significantly decreased over time. Elimination of dangerous tackling technique, improvement in helmet fit and technology, and availability of on-site medical care may contribute to decreased estimates in the future.		[Pirruccio, Kevin; Selemon, Nicolas A.] Univ Penn, Perelman Sch Med, Philadelphia, PA 19104 USA; [Ahn, Jaimo] Univ Penn, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Philadelphia, PA 19104 USA; [Cahill, Patrick J.; Baldwin, Keith D.] Childrens Hosp Philadelphia, Div Orthopaed Surg, Philadelphia, PA 19104 USA; [Pirruccio, Kevin] Univ Penn, Perelman Sch Med, Philadelphia, PA 19104 USA								4							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000582937700001	43	Article; Article		
J	Serpell, Benjamin G.; Harrison, Darlene; Lyons, Matt; Cook, Christian J.								Dark traits as a potential feature of leadership in the high-performance sports coach								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	2			281	290	1747954120964059	10.1177/1747954120964059			APR 2021	2021	High-performance sport coaches are leaders in their field; therefore, they sometimes operate under 'regular' workplace leadership role requirements. However, they are also subject to highly uncertain and pressured environments. Thus, most coaching/leadership positions in high-performance sport may be both 'normal' and 'unique' in leadership role requirement. Consequently, understanding what high-performance sport leaders 'look like', behaviorally, would be valuable. This study aimed to 1) describe personality traits of coaches in high-performance sport, and 2) describe differences between high-performance sport coaches and other leaders. Hogan's personality profile data was collected from fulltime coaches working in high-performance sport. Experienced and developing high-performance sport coaches were compared, and high-performance sport coaches were compared to other sector leaders. No differences exist between coaching groups for any personality traits. However, while high-performance sport coaches shared similar 'light', or 'socially desirable', traits to leaders in 'regular' workplaces they differed for some 'dark'/maladaptive traits. That is, as is the case for leaders in sectors including business, finance and healthcare high-performance coaches may be experienced as being balanced, stable, calm under pressure, approachable, friendly, accessible, planful, responsible, and mindful of details. However, unlike leaders in 'regular' workplace environments, high-performance coaches may also be experienced as moody, hard to please, creative but unusual, risk-taking, and limit-testing; which is more similar to scientists and artists. In conclusion, coach personality traits were both similar and unique to leaders from 'regular' workplaces. Thus, leadership is context specific both within sectors and between sectors.		[Serpell, Benjamin G.; Harrison, Darlene; Lyons, Matt] Australian Inst Sport, Performance People & Teams, Bruce, ACT 2617, Australia; [Serpell, Benjamin G.] Univ Canberra, Res Inst Sport & Exercise, Bruce, Australia; [Cook, Christian J.] Univ New England, Biomed Discipline, Brain Behav Res Grp, Sch Sci & Technol, Armidale, NSW, Australia; [Harrison, Darlene] Australian Inst Sport, Performance People & Teams, Bruce, ACT 2617, Australia								9							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000598507000001	46	Article; Article		
J	Nunes, Nuno Andre; Goncalves, Bruno; Coutinho, Diogo; Nakamura, Fabio Yuzo; Travassos, Bruno								How playing area dimension and number of players constrain football performance during unbalanced ball possession games								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	2			334	343	1747954120966416	10.1177/1747954120966416			APR 2021	2021	The aim of this investigation was to analyse the external workload, tactical individual actions of passing, and perceived internal load during unbalanced small-sided games. Ball possession formats (4v3, 4v4 and 4v5) were played in three different playing area dimensions (20 x 15m, 25 x 20m and 30 x 25m) by under-23 football players. Data were analysed under opposition-based perspective, by fixing one team (4vX), and by cooperation-based perspective according to teammates (4v2+X) for each playing area condition. GPS monitors were used to collect and compute external workloads (distance covered while walking, running, sprinting, and maximal speed) and tactical individual actions (passing with dominant and non-dominant foot, and maximum passing speed), and Borg Scale CR10 to evaluate rating of perceived exertion (RPE). On both opposition- and cooperation-based perspectives, significant differences were found on external workload variables for all game formats, with smaller areas associated with more distances covered while walking and larger areas with running and sprinting. Likewise, 4v3, 4v4 and 4v2 + 3 revealed significant differences for tactical individual actions, where a larger area was associated with an increase in repetitions. Medium playing area, for both perspectives, was associated with a higher RPE. Overall, larger playing areas with higher number of players involved promoted more high-intensity running, while the same area with fewer number of players fostered tactical individual actions. Smaller areas allowed to reduce game pace, especially in formats with fewer players. Different unbalance scenarios under dissimilar playing area dimensions promote diverse performance outcomes on player's action capabilities.		[Nunes, Nuno Andre; Travassos, Bruno] Univ Beira Interior, Dept Sports Sci, P-6201001 Covilha, Portugal; [Nunes, Nuno Andre; Coutinho, Diogo; Nakamura, Fabio Yuzo; Travassos, Bruno] CIDESD, CreativeLab Res Community, Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev, Vila Real, Portugal; [Goncalves, Bruno] Univ Evora, Escola Ciencias & Tecnol, Dept Desporto & Saude, Evora, Portugal; [Goncalves, Bruno] Univ Evora, Comprehens Hlth Res Ctr CHRC, Evora, Portugal; [Goncalves, Bruno; Travassos, Bruno] Portuguese Football Federat, Portugal Football Sch, Oeiras, Portugal; [Nakamura, Fabio Yuzo] UPE UFPB, Associate Grad Program Phys Educ, Joao Pessoa, Paraiba, Brazil; [Nunes, Nuno Andre] Univ Beira Interior, Dept Sports Sci, P-6201001 Covilha, Portugal								23							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000598446900001	43	Article; Article		
J	Yuce, Arif; Katirci, Hakan; Yuce, Sevda Gokce								Examination of sustainable features of stadiums as an integral part of sustainable urban development: the case of Turkey								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				22	1			142	163		10.1108/IJSMS-05-2020-0091			MAR 29 2021	2021	Purpose The purpose of this study is to examine the stadiums in Turkey within the scope of sustainability and evaluate their impact on sustainable urban development. Design/methodology/approach In the study, at first, the "Sustainable Stadium Assessment Tool", where the final score ranges from 0 to 100 and the evaluation is made as bronze, silver, gold and platinum according to the score ranges, is developed. With this assessment tool, a total of 20 stadiums built or renovated/restored between 2008 and 2018 in Turkey is examined in social, environmental, economic dimensions within the scope of sustainability, and the current situation is revealed within the frame of sustainable urban development. Findings As a result of the study, it was determined that among the stadiums evaluated, only two stadiums have sustainability properties at platinum level, three stadiums at gold level while the remaining stadiums mainly at silver level. Originality/value To date, no assessment tool has been created in the field of sports management that can assess the sustainable properties of stadiums. Therefore, the "Sustainable Stadium Assessment Tool" created within the scope of the study is the foremost in the field of sports sciences and sports management with its different qualities in national and international terms. In addition, the examination of the stadiums in the social, environmental, economic dimensions within the scope of sustainability and revealed the current situation is also the first, and it contains information that will make very significant scientific contributions to the relevant field.		[Yuce, Arif; Katirci, Hakan; Yuce, Sevda Gokce] Eskisehir Tech Univ, Sports Management, Eskisehir, Turkey; [Yuce, Sevda Gokce] Anadolu Univ, Grad Sch Hlth Sci Phys Educ & Sport, Eskisehir, Turkey; [Yuce, Arif] Eskisehir Tech Univ, Sports Management, Eskisehir, Turkey								17							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000586371400001	118	Article; Article		
J	Kaski, Satu S.; Kinnunen, Ulla								Work-related ill- and well-being among Finnish sport coaches: Exploring the relationships between job demands, job resources, burnout and work engagement								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	2			262	271	1747954120967794	10.1177/1747954120967794			APR 2021	2021	Objective This research examined the work-related ill- and well-being of Finnish sport coaches and the associations of job demands and resources with burnout and work engagement. Our study was based on the Job Demands-Resources (JD-R) model. The JD-R model proposes that job demands relate especially to burnout and job resources relate especially to work engagement. Methods Finnish coaches (N = 499) within top-level sports completed a questionnaire measuring burnout, work engagement, job demands and resources. Results The results of hierarchical regression analyses showed that burnout was explained with job demands, but also lack of job resources added the explanation rate almost equally. The most important single contributor to burnout was lack of positive challenge at work. Work engagement was explained by job resources, from which positive challenge at work together with mastery of work were the strongest contributors. In addition, decision demands contributed slightly to the explanation of work engagement. Conclusions The results suggest that in the work of sport coaches, job resources or lack of them are more essential than job demands to explain both burnout and work engagement.		[Kaski, Satu S.] Clear Mind Ltd, Arkadiankatu 21 10, Helsinki 00100, Finland; [Kinnunen, Ulla] Tampere Univ, Fac Social Sci Psychol, Tampere, Finland; [Kaski, Satu S.] Clear Mind Ltd, Arkadiankatu 21 10, Helsinki 00100, Finland								19							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000598418900001	56	Article; Article		
J	Abbott, W.; Brett, A.; Watson, A. W.; Brooker, H.; Clifford, T.								Sleep Restriction in Elite Soccer Players: Effects on Explosive Power, Wellbeing, and Cognitive Function								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				93	2			325	332		10.1080/02701367.2020.1834071			APR 3 2022	2022	Purpose: To investigate the cognitive, physical, and perceptual effects of sleep restriction (SR) in soccer players following a night match.Methods: In a crossover design, nine male soccer players from the English Premier League 2 (age, 21 +/- 5 years; height, 1.80 +/- 0.75 m; body mass, 74.2 +/- 6.8 kg) recorded their sleep quality and quantity with sleep logs and a subjective survey after two night matches (19:00); one where sleep duration was not altered (CON) and one where sleep was restricted by a later bed-time (SR). Countermovement jump height (CMJ), subjective wellbeing (1-5 likert scale for mood, stress, fatigue, sleep, and soreness), and cognitive function were measured at baseline and the morning following the match (+12 h; M + 1).Results: Bed-time was later in SR than CON (02:36 +/- 0.17 vs. 22:43 +/- 29; P= .0001; eta p(2) = 0.999) and sleep duration was shorter in SR than CON (5.37 +/- 0.16 vs. 8.59 h +/- 0.36;P= .0001; eta p(2) = 0.926). CMJ decreased by similar to 8% after the match in both SR and CON (P= .0001; eta p(2) = 0.915) but there were no differences between the conditions (P> .05; eta p(2) = 0.041-0.139). Wellbeing was rated worse after both matches (P= .0001; eta p(2) = 0.949) but there were no differences between the trials (P> .05; eta p(2) = 0.172-257). SR did not influence cognitive function (P> .05; interaction effects, eta p(2) = 0.172-257).Conclusion: SR following a nighttime soccer match does not impair CMJ performance, subjective wellbeing, or cognitive function the following morning.		[Abbott, W.; Brett, A.] Brighton & Hove Albion FC, Brighton, E Sussex, England; [Watson, A. W.; Clifford, T.] Newcastle Univ, Newcastle Upon Tyne, Tyne & Wear, England; [Brooker, H.] Univ Exeter, Sch Med, Exeter, Devon, England; [Brooker, H.] Ecog Pro Ltd, Bristol, Avon, England; [Clifford, T.] Loughborough Univ, Loughborough, Leics, England; [Clifford, T.] Loughborough Univ, Sch Sport Exercise & Hlth Sci, Loughborough LE11 3TU, Leics, England								14							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000582348000001	29	Article; Article		
J	Beato, Marco; de Keijzer, Kevin L.; Fleming, Adam; Coates, Alexander; La Spina, Oscar; Coratella, Giuseppe; McErlain-Naylor, Stuart A.								Post flywheel squat vs. flywheel deadlift potentiation of lower limb isokinetic peak torques in male athletes								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				22	11			1514	1527		10.1080/14763141.2020.1810750			NOV 2 2023	2023	The present study investigated the post-activation performance enhancement (PAPE) of isokinetic quadriceps and hamstrings torque after flywheel (FW)-squat vs. FW-deadlift in comparison to a control condition. Fifteen male athletes were enrolled in this randomised, crossover study. Each protocol consisted of 3 sets of 6 repetitions, with an inertial load of 0.029 kg(.)m(2). Isokinetic quadriceps (knee extension) and hamstrings (knee flexion) concentric peak torque (60o/s) and hamstring eccentric peak torque (-60o/s) were measured 5 min after experimental or control conditions. A significant condition (PAPE) effect was reported (f = 4.067, p = 0.008) for isokinetic hamstrings eccentric peak torque following FW-squat and FW-deadlift, but no significant differences were found for quadriceps and hamstrings concentric peak torques. The significant difference averaged 14 Nm between FW-squat vs. control (95% CI: 2, 28; d = 0.75, moderate; p = 0.033), and 13 Nm between FW-deadlift vs. control (95% CI: 1, 25; d = 0.68, moderate; p = 0.038). This study reported that both FW-squat and FW-deadlift exercises are equivalently capable of generating PAPE of isokinetic hamstrings eccentric torque. Practitioners may use these findings to inform strength and power development during complex training sessions consisting of flywheel-based exercises prior to a sport-specific task.		[Beato, Marco; de Keijzer, Kevin L.; Fleming, Adam; Coates, Alexander; McErlain-Naylor, Stuart A.] Suffolk Univ, Sch Hlth & Sports Sci, Ipswich, Suffolk, England; [La Spina, Oscar; Coratella, Giuseppe] Univ Milan, Dept Biomed Sci Hlth, Milan, Italy; [McErlain-Naylor, Stuart A.] Suffolk Univ, Sch Hlth & Sports Sci, Ipswich, Suffolk, England								27							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000585621400001	38	Article; Article		
J	Hill, Megan; Scott, Sam; McGee, Darragh; Cumming, Sean P.								Are relative age and biological ages associated with coaches' evaluations of match performance in male academy soccer players?								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	2			227	235	1747954120966886	10.1177/1747954120966886			APR 2021	2021	Talent identification and selection in soccer has been shown to be confounded by individual differences in relative age and biological maturation. Limited research has however, investigated whether these effects are reflected in coaches' evaluations of performance. This study investigated relative and biological age associated differences in coach perceptions of performance in a professional soccer academy across four seasons. The performances of 279 male players were evaluated on a 4-point Likert-scale. Multi-level modelling was used to examine predictive relationships between biological age, chronological age, result and opposition of game, on match grades. Result of the games was a statistically significant predictor of players perceived performance in every age-group; category of opposition was only significant in the under 13 and 14 age-groups. Biological age significantly predicted players perceived performance grades in the under 10, 14 and 15 age-groups, whereby advanced maturity predicted a higher grade. Across all age-groups, a relative age effect was observed, however age half was not a significant predictor of perceived performance grade in any age-group. Coaches evaluations of match performance appear to vary in accordance with maturity, opposition, and result of game. Academy staff should recognise and account for individual differences in biological maturation when retaining and releasing players.		[Hill, Megan; McGee, Darragh; Cumming, Sean P.] Univ Bath, Dept Hlth, Bath BA2 7AY, Avon, England; [Hill, Megan; Scott, Sam] Southampton Football Club, Sports Sci & Med Dept, Southampton, Hants, England; [Hill, Megan] Univ Bath, Dept Hlth, Bath BA2 7AY, Avon, England; [Hill, Megan] Vrije Univ Amsterdam, Amsterdam, Netherlands								53							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000583834200001	46	Article; Article		
J	Turgeon, Stephanie; Camire, Martin; Rathwell, Scott								Follow-up evaluation of the Coaching for Life Skills online training program								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	1			173	180	1747954120964075	10.1177/1747954120964075			FEB 2021	2021	Coach education has been positioned as an important catalyst in enabling coaches to maximise the positive influence of high school sport on student-athlete development. The purpose of the study was to conduct a subsequent season follow-up evaluation, examining longer-term changes in coach-athlete relationship, coach interpersonal behaviours, and life skills teaching in coaches who completed the Coaching for Life Skills (CLS) online training program. A 2 x 2 prospective causal comparative design was used. Coaches (n = 285) were asked to complete follow-up measures during the high school sport season that followed their completion of the trial. The response rate was 36.84%, with the final sample consisting of 64 participants. Data were analysed using independent samplet-tests. From baseline to subsequent season follow-up, scores for coach-athlete relationship and coach interpersonal behaviours significantly increased for the CLS group and significantly decreased for the comparison group. No significant differences in scores were found on life skills teaching from baseline to subsequent season follow-up. The results suggest that the intervention may have helped CLS group coaches remain consistent in their use of relational coaching behaviours.		[Turgeon, Stephanie] Univ Montreal, Sch Psychoeduc, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Camire, Martin] Univ Ottawa, Sch Human Kinet, Ottawa, ON, Canada; [Rathwell, Scott] Univ Lethbridge, Dept Kinesiol & Phys Educ, Lethbridge, AB, Canada; [Turgeon, Stephanie] Univ Quebec Outaouais, Dept Psychoeduc & Psychol, 283 Boul Alexandre Tache, Gatineau, PQ J8X 3X7, Canada								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000578500400001	30	Article; Article		
J	Hills, Samuel P.; Barrett, Stephen; Thoseby, Bradley; Kilduff, Liam P.; Barwood, Martin J.; Radcliffe, Jon N.; Cooke, Carlton B.; Russell, Mark								Quantifying the Peak Physical Match-Play Demands of Professional Soccer Substitutes Following Pitch-Entry: Assessing Contextual Influences								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				93	2			270	281		10.1080/02701367.2020.1823308			APR 3 2022	2022	Purpose: To quantify the peak post-pitch-entry physical responses of soccer substitutes while assessing contextual influences. Peak responses may be important performance indicators for substitutes introduced to provide a physical impact.Method: Thirty-three professional substitutes wore Microelectromechanical Systems during 44 matches (4 +/- 3 observations.player(-1)). Post-pitch-entry relative peak values for total and high-speed (> 5.5 m.s(-1)) distances, average acceleration, and PlayerLoad (TM) were calculated using rolling averages over 60-s to 600-s. Linear mixed models assessed contextual influences (position, substitution timing, scoreline, and location).Results: Substitutes introduced during the final similar to 15 min of match-play covered less high-speed distance than first-half substitutes (similar to 2.8-3.1 m.min(-1)) over 480-s to 600-s epochs, and less than 60:00-74:59 min substitutes (similar to 1.7-1.8 m.min(-1)) during 540-s and 600-s epochs. Average acceleration during all except 180-s epochs was lower for 75:00+ min substitutes compared with first-half replacements (similar to 0.27-0.43 m.s(-2)), and lower than 60:00-74:59 min substitutes during 60-s (similar to 0.13 m.s(-2)). Substitutes introduced when their team was winning recorded greater distances over 120-s to 600-s (similar to 6.2-7.7 m.min(-1)), and higher PlayerLoad (TM) values during 120-s, 180-s, 300-s, and 480-s epochs (similar to 2.7-3.6 arbitrary units.min(-1)), compared with when scores were level at pitch-entry. Irrespective of substitution timing, substitute midfielders exceeded the total distance of substitute attackers (similar to 5.9-16.2 m.min(-1)) for all except 360-s and 600-s epochs, and defenders (similar to 13.3-26.7 m.min(-1)) during epochs < 300-s.Conclusions: This study provides benchmark data for practitioners tailoring training and recovery protocols, particularly "top-up" conditioning, to the competitive demands of soccer substitutes. Knowing how contextual factors influence substitutes' peak match-play responses may help managers/coaches assess the efficacy of substitution strategies.		[Hills, Samuel P.; Barwood, Martin J.; Radcliffe, Jon N.; Cooke, Carlton B.; Russell, Mark] Leeds Trinity Univ, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England; [Barrett, Stephen] PlayerMaker, Franklin, TN USA; [Thoseby, Bradley] La Trobe Univ, Bundoora, Vic, Australia; [Thoseby, Bradley] Melbourne City FC, Bundoora, Vic, Australia; [Kilduff, Liam P.] Swansea Univ, Swansea, W Glam, Wales; [Russell, Mark] Leeds Trinity Univ, Sch Social & Hlth Sci, Leeds LS18 5HD, W Yorkshire, England								19							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000579623500001	36	Article; Article		
J	Thomson, Cynthia J.; Gaetz, Michael; Rastad, Michael								Acute Effects of Exercise on Risk-Taking: Different Responses in Males and Females								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				93	2			250	259		10.1080/02701367.2020.1822984			APR 3 2022	2022	In recent years there has been great interest in the effects of exercise on cognition, but few have investigated whether physical activity influences risk-taking.Purpose: To investigate the effects of acute moderate to vigorous exercise on risky decision-making.Methods: Healthy (free of psychological or neurological conditions), recreationally active males and females (n= 20, 50% females, mean age = 22.4 years, sd = 2.48) performed either a 30-min bout of cycling at 50% to 60% of their maximal power output or watched a neutral film over the course of two laboratory visits (repeated measures, randomized crossover design). Following the interventions, participants completed computerized behavioral tasks: the Balloon-Analogue Risk Task (BART), the Risky Gains Task, and the STOP-IT task and provided saliva samples (pre and post) to measure changes in cortisol.Results: There was a significant interaction between sex and condition (p= .01, eta(2)(p) = .3) for one of the risk-taking outcomes of the BART (number of explosions). Females exploded fewer balloons post-exercise. Performance on the other tasks did not change significantly between conditions (allp> .05). Cortisol increased significantly following exercise and responses did not differ between males and females. Considering cortisol change post-exercise similarly resulted in a significant sex by condition interaction (p= .005, eta(2)(p) = .44), with males exploding more balloons and females exploding fewer post-exercise.Conclusion: Acute exercise appears to have differing effects on males and females. Exercise resulted in risk seeking in males and risk aversion in females as measured by the BART.		[Thomson, Cynthia J.; Gaetz, Michael; Rastad, Michael] Univ Fraser Valley, Chilliwack, BC, Canada; [Thomson, Cynthia J.] Univ Fraser Valley, Fac Hlth Sci, 45190 Caen Ave, Chilliwack, BC V2R 0N3, Canada								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000576227300001	31	Article; Article		
J	Morais, Jorge E.; Barbosa, Tiago M.; Forte, Pedro; Bragada, Jose A.; Castro, Flavio A. de Souza; Marinho, Daniel A.								Stability analysis and prediction of pacing in elite 1500 m freestyle male swimmers								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				22	11			1496	1513		10.1080/14763141.2020.1810749			NOV 2 2023	2023	This study aimed to analyse the stability of elite male long-distance swimmers (1500 m), and to identify the main predictors related to the pace. The performance of 16 elite male swimmers (22.59 +/- 2.10 years-old) participating in the 1500 m event at the 2016 (London) and 2018 (Glasgow) LEN European Aquatic Championships were analysed. The lap performance, clean swim performance, turn performance, and a set of stroke mechanics variables were assessed. The lap performance presented a significant and moderate variation with all laps included (p < 0.001) and deleting the first and last lap (p = 0.002). Swimmers were significantly faster in the first half in comparison of the second. The total turn also presented a significant and moderate variation. The hierarchical linear modelling retained the time (estimate = 0.0019, p = 0.007), stroke frequency (estimate = -27.49, p < 0.001) and stroke length (estimate = -6.55, p < 0.001) as the main predictors of the clean swim performance. By contrast to the analysis based on the lap performance, clean swim performance presented a non-significant variation. Coaches should be aware that stroke length maintenance could negatively affect the clean swim performance, whereas a small increase of stroke frequency may present a meaningful enhancement of the total race time.		[Morais, Jorge E.; Barbosa, Tiago M.; Forte, Pedro; Bragada, Jose A.] Polytech Inst Braganca, Dept Sport Sci, Braganca, Portugal; [Morais, Jorge E.; Barbosa, Tiago M.; Forte, Pedro; Bragada, Jose A.; Marinho, Daniel A.] Univ Beira Interior, Res Ctr Sports Hlth & Human Dev CIDESD, Covilha, Portugal; [Forte, Pedro] Higher Inst Educ Sci Douro, Dept Sport Sci & Phys Educ, Penafiel, Portugal; [Castro, Flavio A. de Souza] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Sul, Sch Phys Educ, Aquat Sports Res Grp, Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil; [Marinho, Daniel A.] Univ Beira Interior, Dept Sport Sci, Covilha, Portugal; [Morais, Jorge E.] Polytech Inst Braganca, Dept Sport Sci, Braganca, Portugal; [Morais, Jorge E.] Univ Beira Interior, Res Ctr Sports Hlth & Human Dev CIDESD, Covilha, Portugal								42							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000575972600001	50	Article; Article		
J	King, L.; Cullen, S. J.; O'Connor, S.; McGoldrick, A.; Pugh, J.; Warrington, G.; Woods, G.; Nevill, A. M.; Losty, C.								Common mental disorders among Irish jockeys: prevalence and risk factors								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				49	2			207	213		10.1080/00913847.2020.1808435			APR 3 2021	2021	Objective Jockeys compete in a sport, horseracing, renowned for its physical and psychological demands. Previous research has identified that common mental disorders (CMDs) may be prevalent among this unique population of athletes. The aim of the present study was to further explore the prevalence of CMDs among jockeys and to test for associations with potential risk factors. Methods An anonymous survey was distributed to professional jockey online. Self-report screening tools for four CMDs (psychological distress, depression, generalized anxiety, and adverse alcohol use) were included alongside predictor variables from questionnaires assessing for burnout, career satisfaction, social support, and the contemplation of retirement. Binary logistic regression was used to explore associations between CMDs (present versus not present) and risk factors. Eighty-four professional jockeys completed the questionnaire (response rate = 52%). Results In total, 79% of jockeys met the threshold for at least one CMD. Prevalence (%) of CMD varied as follows: adverse alcohol (61%), depression (35%), generalized anxiety (27%), and psychological distress (19%). Burnout, career (dis)satisfaction, lower levels of social support, and the contemplation of retirement increased the odds of meeting the criteria for CMDs. Conclusion The findings indicate that jockeys report CMD symptoms at comparable rates to athletes in other sports. The study was the first to highlight potential risk factors as predictors of CMDs among jockeys, including burnout, career satisfaction, and the current contemplation of retirement. Screening tools for the risk factors demonstrated may, therefore, provide useful in the early identification of CMDs among jockeys. The development of jockey-specific assessment tools, education programmes, and interventions may help better understand and support the mental health of jockeys.		[King, L.; Cullen, S. J.; Losty, C.] Waterford Inst Technol, Dept Sport & Exercise Sci, Waterford, Ireland; [O'Connor, S.] Dublin City Univ, Sch Hlth & Human Performance, Ctr Injury Prevent & Performance Athlet Therapy &, Dublin, Ireland; [McGoldrick, A.; Pugh, J.] Irish Horseracing Regulatory Board, The Curragh, Kildare, Ireland; [Warrington, G.] Univ Limerick, Hlth Res Inst, Limerick, Ireland; [Warrington, G.] Univ Limerick, Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Limerick, Ireland; [Woods, G.] Queens Univ Belfast, Sch Med Dent & Biomed Sci, Belfast, Antrim, North Ireland; [Nevill, A. M.] Univ Wolverhampton, Fac Educ Hlth & Wellbeing, Walsall, W Midlands, England; [King, L.] Waterford Inst Technol, Dept Sport & Exercise Sci, Waterford, Ireland								16							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000575586400001	34	Article; Article		
J	Maselli, Filippo; Rossettini, Giacomo; Storari, Lorenzo; Barbari, Valerio; Viceconti, Antonello; Geri, Tommaso; Testa, Marco								Knowledge and management of low back pain as running-related injuries among Italian physical therapists: findings from a national survey								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				49	3			278	288		10.1080/00913847.2020.1816124			JUL 3 2021	2021	Objectives To investigate the beliefs, knowledge, attitudes, behavior, and the clinical management procedures of the Italian physical therapists specialized in orthopedic manipulative physical therapy (OMPT) toward running and its correlation with low back pain (LBP). Design: A cross-sectional online survey was conducted in 2019, according to the Checklist for Reporting Results of Internet E-Surveys (CHERRIES) and Strengthening the Reporting of Observational Studies in Epidemiology (STROBE) guidelines. Setting: Italy. Participants: One thousand two hundred and eighteen Italian OMPTs. Methods Survey Monkey software was used to administer the survey. The questionnaire was self-reported and included 26 questions. Descriptive statistics were used and related to the effective respondents for each question. Results One thousand two hundred and eighteen questionnaires (60.9%) were included in the analysis. A considerable cohort of OMPTs working in private practice clinical settings (n = 845; 69.4%; 95% CI 66.7-71.9) has indicated running not to be a relevant risk factor for the onset of LBP (n = 806; 66.2%; 95% CI 63.4-68.8). Moreover, most of the participants (n = 679; 55.7%; 95% CI 52.9-58.5) adopted a combination of manual therapy techniques and therapeutic exercise for the management of runners with LBP. Conclusions Widespread knowledge of clinical and theoretical management of LBP in runners-patients has emerged among Italian OMPTs. The OMPTs' academic background agrees with the recent literature and therefore highlights the paucity of studies related to LBP as running-related injuries.		[Maselli, Filippo; Rossettini, Giacomo; Storari, Lorenzo; Barbari, Valerio; Viceconti, Antonello; Geri, Tommaso; Testa, Marco] Univ Genoa, Dept Neurosci Rehabil Ophthalmol Genet & Maternal, I-17100 Savona, Italy; [Maselli, Filippo] Sovrintendenza Sanit Reg Puglia INAIL, Bari, Italy; [Maselli, Filippo] Univ Genoa, Dept Neurosci Rehabil Ophthalmol Genet & Maternal, I-17100 Savona, Italy								7							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000574021300001	111	Article; Article		
J	Berzosa, Cesar; Sanz-Lopez, Fernando; Gonzalo-Skok, Oliver; Valero-Campo, Carlos; Luis Arjol-Serrano, Jose; Piedrafita, Eduardo; Aladren, Guillermo; Vanessa Bataller-Cervero, A.								Effect of Three Half-Squat Protocols on the Tensiomyographic Twitch Response and Tissue Damage of the Rectus Femoris and the Biceps Femoris								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				75	1			15	27		10.2478/hukin-2020-0034			OCT 2020	2020	The aim of this study was to analyse the acute effects of a concentric exercise and two different eccentric overload exercises (EOEs) on blood markers of muscle damage (i.e. creatine kinase [CK], lactate dehydrogenase [LDH], myoglobin [Myo], and malondialdehyde [MDA]) and muscle contractile properties. Ten healthy, young (27 +/- 1.5 years, 179 +/- 6 cm, 78.7 +/- 10.8 kg), physically active men (3.5 +/- 1.9 h.w(-1)) randomly performed three training sessions using the following protocols: a half-squat (HS) as a concentric exercise, and exercises using Versapulley (VP) or YoYo isoinertial technology (YIT) as EOEs (4 x 7 repetitions with a 2 min rest interval between sets). Blood samples and tensiomyography measurements were obtained after each training session. Repeated measures analysis of variance (ANOVA) followed by the Tukey test was used to detect differences between the four time points of each variable. The standardized difference or effect size (ES, 90% confidence limit) in the selected variables was calculated using the basal SD. After all exercises, a greater activity of CK, LDH, and concentration of Myo, and MDA were found compared to baseline values (p < 0.05). A substantially greater activity of CK, LDH, and Myo concentration, but not MDA, were found after EOEs when compared to the HS protocol. Substantially lower tensiomyography results in the rectus femoris (RF) were reported, irrespective of the exercise mode performed. Also, no substantial differences were obtained in the biceps femoris (BF) between EOEs and the HS protocol. Time of contraction (Tc) in the RF was possibly to very likely lower in the HS in comparison to EOEs. Additionally, muscular displacement (Dm) in the RF was substantially lower in the HS compared to EOEs. VP produced higher concentrations of damage markers than YIT and concentric exercise did. Furthermore, tensiomyography variables showed similar activation in both exercises, although higher specific fatigue (in the RF) was registered in the traditional HS.		[Berzosa, Cesar; Sanz-Lopez, Fernando; Gonzalo-Skok, Oliver; Valero-Campo, Carlos; Luis Arjol-Serrano, Jose; Piedrafita, Eduardo; Aladren, Guillermo; Vanessa Bataller-Cervero, A.] Univ San Jorge, Autov A-23 Zaragoza Huesca,Km 299, Zaragoza 50830, Spain; [Berzosa, Cesar; Sanz-Lopez, Fernando; Gonzalo-Skok, Oliver; Valero-Campo, Carlos; Luis Arjol-Serrano, Jose; Piedrafita, Eduardo; Vanessa Bataller-Cervero, A.] Univ San Jorge, Hlth Sci Fac, ValorA Res Grp, Zaragoza, Spain; [Berzosa, Cesar] Univ San Jorge, Autov A-23 Zaragoza Huesca,Km 299, Zaragoza 50830, Spain								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:000590449400002	39	Article; Article		
J	Pietraszewski, Przemyslaw; Golas, Artur; Matusinski, Aleksander; Mrzyglod, Sylwia; Mostowik, Aleksandra; Maszczyk, Adam								Muscle Activity Asymmetry of the Lower Limbs During Sprinting in Elite Soccer Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				75	1			239	245		10.2478/hukin-2020-0049			OCT 2020	2020	The analysis of movement patterns through EMG activity provides the opportunity to identify the muscle groups most involved in a particular exercise, and to determine the scope of inter-limb deficiencies. The aim of the present study was to investigate the effects of a side-to-side muscle activity asymmetry between the left and the right lower limb during sprinting in soccer players. Sixteen professional soccer players took part in the study. Their age, body mass and body height equaled 23.7 +/- 7.6 years, 81.2 +/- 10.8 kg and 179.3 +/- 12.2 cm, respectively. The sprint test consisted of two maximal sprints over 30 m with a 5-min rest interval between each sprint. EMG was recorded bilaterally from the quadriceps, hamstrings and gluteal muscles. Regression analysis revealed a significant effect of a side-to-side average muscle activity asymmetry between the left and right hamstring (LH/RH) muscles during the speed tests at 5 m (p = 0.044), and 30 m (p = 0.045), as well as the left and right glutes (LG/RG) at 5 m (p = 0.044) and 30 m (p = 0.043). Our results indicate that hamstring and glute muscles should be selectively and additionally activated during resistance training in soccer players to prevent injuries and improve sprint performance.		[Pietraszewski, Przemyslaw; Golas, Artur; Matusinski, Aleksander; Mrzyglod, Sylwia; Mostowik, Aleksandra; Maszczyk, Adam] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ, Inst Sport Sci, Mikolowska 72, PL-40065 Katowice, Poland; [Pietraszewski, Przemyslaw] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ, Inst Sport Sci, Mikolowska 72, PL-40065 Katowice, Poland								23							Sport Sciences	WOS:000590449400020	23	Article; Article		
J	Soto, Dany Alexis Sobarzo; Aedo-Munoz, Esteban; Brito, Ciro Jose; Miarka, Bianca								Comparisons of Motor Actions and Biomechanical Assessments of Judo Techniques Between Female Weight Categories								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				75	1			247	255		10.2478/hukin-2020-0053			OCT 2020	2020	This study aimed to perform motor action and biomechanical analysis of techniques in female judo athletes separated by weight categories of 638 female bouts (103 extra lightweight <48 kg, 140 half lightweight 48>52 kg, 65 lightweight 52>57 kg, 73 half middleweight 57>63 kg, 77 middleweight 63>70 kg, 80 half heavyweight 70>78 kg and 60 heavyweight >78 kg). All bouts were analyzed following the phases of approach, gripping, defensive action, attack, also biomechanical analysis of techniques and groundwork was performed (p <= .05). Results indicated that lightweight athletes presented lower attempts to grip, right collar grip and left collar grip frequencies than other categories. Extra lightweight judokas presented lower right back grip and left back and sleeve grip frequencies as well as lower occurrence of techniques with arm and leg lever scored than half lightweight athletes, while half lightweight athletes demonstrated higher frequency of techniques with waist lever variable scored than lightweight ones. These findings should be considered for training prescription.		[Soto, Dany Alexis Sobarzo] Univ Santo Tomas, Escuela Kinesiol, Fac Salud, Puerto Montt, Chile; [Soto, Dany Alexis Sobarzo] Univ Santo Tomas, Ciencias Actividad Fis & Deportes Aplicadas Entre, Puerto Montt, Chile; [Aedo-Munoz, Esteban] Univ Santiago Chile, Phys Act Sport & Hlth Sci Lab, Santiago, Chile; [Brito, Ciro Jose; Miarka, Bianca] Univ Fed Juiz de Fora, Phys Educ Dept, Governador Valadares, Brazil; [Miarka, Bianca] Univ Fed Rio de Janeiro, Sch Phys Educ & Sports, Postgrad Program Phys Educ, Dept Fights, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil; [Miarka, Bianca] Univ Fed Rio de Janeiro, Av Carlos Chagas Filho,540 Cidade Univ, BR-21941599 Rio De Janeiro, RJ, Brazil								8							Sport Sciences	WOS:000590449400021	18	Article; Article		
J	Salazar, Hugo; Castellano, Julen; Svilar, Luka								Differences in External Load Variables Between Playing Positions in Elite Basketball Match-Play								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				75	1			257	266		10.2478/hukin-2020-0054			OCT 2020	2020	The purpose of this study was to describe the specific demands and structure of interrelationships of external load variables in order to generate a position-related time motion profile in elite basketball. Seventeen professional players from three different playing positions (6 guards, 4 forwards, and 7 centers) were analyzed in five friendly games. Player load per minute (PLmin) was used as an indicator of intensity to compare positions. Furthermore, high and total external variables of jumping (hJUMP and tJUMP), acceleration (hACC and tACC), deceleration (hDEC and tDEC) and change of direction (hCOD and tCOD), respectively, were used for the principal component analysis (PCA). The Kaiser criterion (eigenvalue > 1) was applied, and the Varimax rotation mode was used to extract multiple principal components. PCA showed that all positions had three or four principal components, but the configuration of each factor was different: tCOD, hCOD, hDEC and hJUMP for guards, hCOD, tCOD, tACC and hDEC for forwards, and tJUMP, hJUMP, hDEC and tACC for centers were specifically demanded in match-play. For guards and forwards, a significant correlation was found between COD variables, while for centers tCOD and PLmin had the strongest correlation. When monitoring the external load via tri-axial accelerometers in basketball match-play, each playing position showed specific physical demands. Therefore, these variables must be prioritized in load monitoring programs.		[Salazar, Hugo; Castellano, Julen] Univ Basque Country UPV EHU, Dept Educ & Sport, Vitoria, Spain; [Salazar, Hugo; Svilar, Luka] Basketball Club Baskonia, Vitoria, Spain; [Salazar, Hugo] Univ Basque Country UPV EHU, Dept Educ & Sport, Vitoria, Spain								38							Sport Sciences	WOS:000590449400022	28	Article; Article		
J	Archiza, Bruno; Andaku, Daniela K.; Beltrame, Thomas; Libardi, Cleiton A.; Borghi-Silva, Audrey								The Relationship Between Repeated-Sprint Ability, Aerobic Capacity, and Oxygen Uptake Recovery Kinetics in Female Soccer Athletes								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				75	1			115	126		10.2478/hukin-2020-0042			OCT 2020	2020	This study investigated the relationship between repeated-sprint ability, aerobic capacity, and oxygen uptake kinetics during the transition between exercise and recovery (off-transient) in female athletes of an intermittent sport modality. Eighteen professional soccer players completed three tests: 1) a maximal incremental exercise test; 2) a constant speed time-to-exhaustion test; and 3) a repeated-sprint ability test consisting of six 40-m sprints with 20 s of passive recovery in-between. Correlations between time-to-exhaustion, repeated-sprint ability, and oxygen uptake kinetics were calculated afterwards. The level of significance was set at p < 0.05. A performance decrement during repeated-sprint ability was found to be related to: 1) time-to-exhaustion (e.g., exercise tolerance; r = -0.773, p < 0.001); 2) oxygen uptake recovery time (r = 0.601, p = 0.008); and 3) oxygen uptake mean response time of recovery (r = 0.722, p < 0.001). Moreover, the best sprint time (r = -0.601, p = 0.008) and the mean sprint time (r = -0.608, p = 0.007) were found to be related to maximal oxygen uptake. Collectively, these results reinforce the relation between oxygen uptake kinetics and the ability to maintain sprint performance in female athletes. These results may contribute to coaches and training staff of female soccer teams to focus on training and improve their athletes' aerobic capacity and recovery capacity to improve intermittent exercise performance.		[Archiza, Bruno; Andaku, Daniela K.; Beltrame, Thomas; Borghi-Silva, Audrey] Univ Fed Sao Carlos, Dept Phys Therapy, Rod Washington Luis,Km 235,SP-310, BR-13565905 Sao Carlos, SP, Brazil; [Libardi, Cleiton A.] Univ Fed Sao Carlos, Dept Phys Educ, Sao Carlos, SP, Brazil; [Borghi-Silva, Audrey] Univ Fed Sao Carlos, Dept Phys Therapy, Rod Washington Luis,Km 235,SP-310, BR-13565905 Sao Carlos, SP, Brazil								16							Sport Sciences	WOS:000590449400010	39	Article; Article		
J	Nykodym, Jiri; Bozdech, Michal; Agricola, Adrian; Zhanel, Jiri								The Relative Age Effect at the Ice Hockey World Championships (IHWC) in the years 2015-2017								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				75	1			150	159		10.2478/hukin-2020-0044			OCT 2020	2020	The relative age effect (RAE) theory is based on the premise that athletes born in the first months of the calendar year have a significant probability of a higher level of physiological, morphological and psychological abilities compared to later-born athletes. The aim of our study was to verify the influence of the RAE on adult ice hockey players, specifically Ice Hockey World Championships' (IHWC) participants in the years 2015-2017 (n = 1,200). Based on the chi-squared (chi(2)) analysis, the influence of the RAE during the 2015-2017 period could not be rejected for all observed players (chi(2) = 54.6, p < 0.01, w = 0.21) or for all the players for particular years (2015, 2016, and 2017; p < 0.01). During the monitored period (2015-2017), the RAE could not be rejected for any player's position (forward, defender, or goaltender). Based on the effect size analysis (Cohen's w), the strongest RAE was observed among goaltenders (w = 0.31), then forwards (w = 0.24) and finally defenders (w = 0.15). The assessment of player's positions in particular years showed statistical significance for goaltenders only in 2015 (chi(2) = 11.3, p < 0.05). With regard to forwards, significance was confirmed for 2015 (chi(2) = 8.5, p < 0.05), 2016 (chi(2) = 15.2, p < 0.01) and 2017 (chi(2) = 14.3, p < 0.01). Therefore, the presence of the RAE could not be rejected for all these cases. The results of the research show that members of national teams in the years 2015-2017 were players who were chronologically older, which is consistent with the results of other authors addressing the RAE.		[Nykodym, Jiri] Masaryk Univ, Fac Sport Studies, Dept Sports, Brno, Czech Republic; [Bozdech, Michal; Zhanel, Jiri] Masaryk Univ, Fac Sport Studies, Dept Kinesiol, Brno, Czech Republic; [Agricola, Adrian] Univ Hradec Kralove, Fac Educ, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Rokitanskeho 62-26, Hradec Kralove 50003, Czech Republic; [Agricola, Adrian] Univ Hradec Kralove, Fac Educ, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Rokitanskeho 62-26, Hradec Kralove 50003, Czech Republic								9							Sport Sciences	WOS:000590449400013	39	Article; Article		
J	Cuba-Dorado, Alba; Garcia-Garcia, Oscar; Morales-Sanchez, Veronica; Hernandez-Mendo, Antonio								The Explanatory Capacity of Talent Identification Tests for Performance in Triathlon Competitions: A Longitudinal Analysis								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				75	1			185	193		10.2478/hukin-2020-0047			OCT 2020	2020	The aim of this study was to determine the explanatory capacity of the Spanish Triathlon Federation's talent identification tests in relation to performance in competition in subsequent years. We used an exploratory longitudinal study design to establish the relationship between talent identification tests completed by 247 triathletes (97 women and 150 men) aged from 14 to 19 years and the results they obtained over the years in competition. The battery of tests included freestyle swimming (100 and 1000 m) and running (400 and 1000 m). The results indicate that the explanatory capacity of these tests for split places in competition in the corresponding discipline was highest in the 1000-m swimming test, with a value of 0.34 for the adjusted coefficient of determination (R(2)a) (p <= 0.001), followed by the 1000-m running and 100-m swimming tests, where the highest R(2)a values were 0.26 and 0.19, respectively. No significant model was found for the 400-m running test. It was concluded that the explanatory capacity of the tests analysed for predicting performance in the discipline in competition was low. However, it was higher for the swimming and running tests of longer distance.		[Cuba-Dorado, Alba; Garcia-Garcia, Oscar] Univ Vigo, Sports Performance Phys Condit & Wellness Lab, Pontevedra, Spain; [Morales-Sanchez, Veronica; Hernandez-Mendo, Antonio] Univ Malaga, Fac Psychol, Dept Social Psychol, Malaga, Spain; [Cuba-Dorado, Alba] Fac Educ & Sport Sci, Campus A Xunqueira S-N, Pontevedra 36005, Spain								6							Sport Sciences	WOS:000590449400016	25	Article; Article		
J	Zhang, Qingshan; Trama, Robin; Foure, Alexandre; Hautier, Christophe A.								The Immediate Effects of Self-Myofacial Release on Flexibility, Jump Performance and Dynamic Balance Ability								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				75	1			139	148		10.2478/hukin-2020-0043			OCT 2020	2020	Self-myofascial release (SMR) is a popular method to potentially increase the compliance and extensibility of the fascia and reduce muscle stiffness. The purpose of this study was to examine the acute effects of posterior muscle chain SMR on flexibility, vertical jump performance and balance ability. Eighteen young participants volunteered to take part in this crossover design study. They performed two self-massage sessions in randomized order separated by at least one week. One session consisted of posterior muscle chain SMR whereas the other one was performed on the upper limbs as a control intervention (CON). Flexibility was measured with the Toe Touch Test (TTT), Weight-Bearing Lunge Test (WBLT), and Straight Leg Raise Test (SLR). Jump performance was evaluated during a squat jump, a counter movement jump and a stiffness jump. Dynamic balance ability was assessed through the Star Excursion Balance Test. All these variables were measured before and after each intervention. A significant increase in flexibility (+3.5 +/- 1.8 cm, +1.6 +/- 1.0 degrees, and +7.7 +/- 4.0 degrees for the TTT, WLBT, and SLR, respectively, p < 0.003) and balance performance (4.8 +/- 3.9 cm, p < 0.003) was observed following SMR intervention compared to CON. Conversely, jumping performance was unchanged in both groups. SMR improves joint flexibility and dynamic balance ability.		[Zhang, Qingshan; Trama, Robin; Foure, Alexandre; Hautier, Christophe A.] Univ Lyon, UCBL Lyon 1, Lab Interuniv Biol Motricite, EA 7424, F-69622 Villeurbanne, France; [Zhang, Qingshan] Univ Lyon, UCBL Lyon 1, Lab Interuniv Biol Motricite, UFRSTAPS,EA 7424, 27-29 Blvd 11 Novembre 1918, F-69622 Villeurbanne, France								21							Sport Sciences	WOS:000590449400012	40	Article; Article		
J	Cerasola, Dario; Bellafiore, Marianna; Cataldo, Angelo; Zangla, Daniele; Bianco, Antonino; Proia, Patrizia; Traina, Marcello; Palma, Antonio; Capranica, Laura								Predicting the 2000-m Rowing Ergometer Performance from Anthropometric, Maximal Oxygen Uptake and 60-s Mean Power Variables in National Level Young Rowers								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				75	1			77	83		10.2478/hukin-2020-0038			OCT 2020	2020	Many studies reported various relationships between 2000-m rowing performance and anthropometric as well as metabolic variables, however, little is known about 60-s mean power in elite youth athletes. The aim of this study was to develop different regression models to predict 2000-m rowing indoor performance time (t(2000))using anthropometric variables, maximal oxygen uptake (VO2max) and mean power established during a 60-s all-out test (W-60) in national elite youth rowers. Fifteen youth male Italian rowers (age: 15.7 +/- 2.0 years; body height: 176.0 +/- 8.0 cm; body mass: 71.2 +/- 10.0 kg) performed an incremental maximal test, a 60-s all-out test and a 2000-m race simulation using a Concept2 rowing ergometer to assess VO2max, W-60 and t(2000), respectively. The relationships of all variables with t(2000) were investigated through Pearson's correlation. Multiple regression analyses were used to verify the best prediction model of 2000-m indoor rowing performance. The reliability of these models was expressed by R-2 and the standard error of estimate. The results showed that t2000 was significantly correlated with all the examined variables, except for VO2max/body mass and age, and exhibited the significantly highest relationship with W-60 (r = -0.943). The combination of anthropometric, VO2max and W-60 variables was found to be the most reliable equation to predict t(2000 )(R-2 = 0.94, SEE = 6.4). W-60 measure should be considered when monitoring the rower's capability to perform high-intensity phases, important during the race's fast start and end. Not requiring expensive equipment and long duration, a 60-s all-out test could be considered a valuable tool for predicting 2000-m performance of elite youth rowers.		[Cerasola, Dario; Bellafiore, Marianna; Cataldo, Angelo; Zangla, Daniele; Bianco, Antonino; Proia, Patrizia; Traina, Marcello; Palma, Antonio] Univ Palermo, Dept Psychol Educ Sci & Human Movement, Palermo, Italy; [Capranica, Laura] Univ Rome Foro Italia, Dept Movement Human & Hlth Sci, Rome, Italy; [Bellafiore, Marianna] Giovanni Pascoli 6, I-90100 Palermo, Italy								27							Sport Sciences	WOS:000590449400006	31	Article; Article		
J	Boraczynski, Michal; Boraczynski, Tomasz; Podstawski, Robert; Wojcik, Zbigniew; Gronek, Piotr								Relationships Between Measures of Functional and Isometric Lower Body Strength, Aerobic Capacity, Anaerobic Power, Sprint and Countermovement Jump Performance in Professional Soccer Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				75	1			161	175		10.2478/hukin-2020-0045			OCT 2020	2020	The purpose of this study was to assess a wide range of physiological and performance variables and investigate whether and to what extent these variables are associated with each other in soccer. Twenty-five male soccer players (25.1 +/- 4.56 years; body mass, 75.2 +/- 5.92 kg; body height, 180.6 +/- 5.45 cm) performed: 5- and 30-m sprints (T5m and T30m, respectively), 1-repetition-maximum (1RM) half squat, maximal voluntary isometric contraction (MVIC) of the knee extensors, countermovement jump (CMJ) to obtain vertical jump height (CMJ(he)(ight)) and power output (CMJ(power)), the 10-s Wingate Anaerobic Test (WAnT) to obtain peak power (P-max) and the 20-m multi-stage shuttle run test (MST) to evaluate aerobic capacity. 1RM, MVIC, and P(max )were normalized to body mass. Large negative correlations were found between sprint times and 1RM half back squat/BM (r = -0.510 to -0.570, r(2) = 0.260-0.325, both p < 0.01) and P-max/BM (r = -0.501, r(2) = 0.251, p < 0.01). T30m most strongly and negatively correlated with CAJ(height )(r = -0.744, r(2) = 0.554, p < 0.001). WAnT-determined P-max showed a very large correlation between absolute P-max and knee-extensor MVIC (r = 0.827, r(2) = 0.684, p < 0.001) and large correlations between absolute P-max and 1RM half squat (r = 0.674, r(2) = 0.454, p < 0.001) and CMJ(power) (r = 0.579, r(2) = 0.335, p < 0.01). We also identified a large inverse relationship between CMIheight and T30m (r = -0.744, r(2) = 0.554, p < 0.001) and large positive correlation between CMJ(height) and MVIC/BM (r = 0.702, p < 0.001). The results demonstrate that elite soccer players with greater lower body strength (quantified by the MVIC of the knee extensor and the 1RM half squat) show better sprint and CMJ performance, suggesting the incorporation of soccer-specific resistance training to develop lower body musculature and therefore maximize sprinting ability. The higher correlation coefficients found between T30m and the physiological and athletic measures compared with T5m promote the use of this sprint distance when assessing performance. The use of relative measures (normalized to body mass) is advisable when comparing strength variables with sprint and CMJ performance or anaerobic power. Considering the correlations of WAnT-determined P-max versus CMJ(power), coaches should administer tests that assess jumping and linear sprint performance rather than the cycling-specific WAnT.		[Boraczynski, Michal] Univ Warmia & Mazury, Coll Med, Dept Publ Hlth, Olsztyn, Poland; [Boraczynski, Tomasz] Olsztyn Univ, Dept Hlth Sci, Olsztyn, Poland; [Podstawski, Robert; Wojcik, Zbigniew] Univ Warmia & Mazury, Dept Tourism Recreat & Ecol, Olsztyn, Poland; [Gronek, Piotr] Poznan Univ Phys Educ, Dept Dance & Gymnast, Poznan, Poland; [Boraczynski, Michal] Univ Warmia & Mazury, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Publ Hlth, 14C Zolnierska St, PL-10719 Olsztyn, Poland								54							Sport Sciences	WOS:000590449400014	52	Article; Article		
J	Oliva-Lozano, Jose Maria; Gomez-Carmona, Carlos David; Pino-Ortega, Jose; Moreno-Perez, Victor; Rodriguez-Perez, Manuel Antonio								Match and Training High Intensity Activity-Demands Profile during a Competitive Mesocycle in Youth Elite Soccer Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				75	1			195	205		10.2478/hukin-2020-0050			OCT 2020	2020	The monitoring of the high intensity activity-demands profile during official matches (OMs) and training sessions (TSs) provides a deeper understanding of the relationship between training and competition loads as well as players' fitness characteristics. The aims of this study were to: 1) describe the training and match high intensity activity-demands profile in U-19 soccer players; 2) compare the profile depending on the type of session (OM or TS) throughout match-weeks; and 3) differentiate between profiles depending on the match location (home or away). Twenty-five U-19 Spanish soccer players were monitored during TSs and OMs for a one-month competitive period using a WIMU PROTM wearable inertial device. The variables of the study were: high speed running distance (HSRD), total sprints (SPs), maximum speed (MS) and player load (PL). OMs required higher demands than TSs in HSRD (460.99 +/- 206.18 vs. 315.45 +/- 180.12 m; p < 0.01; d = 0.75), SPs (10.86 +/- 6.64 vs. 7.23 +/- 4.82; p < 0.01; d = 0.69), MS (29.99 +/- 2.54 vs. 28.50 +/- 2.4 km/h; p < 0.01; d = 0.59) and PL (103.08 +/- 24.15 vs. 83.18 +/- 17.96 a.u.; p < 0.01; d = 0.94). The interaction between the type of session and mean week's demands presented differences with medium effect size in MS (p < 0.01; wp(2) = 0.06) and small effect size in HSRD (p = 0.04; wp(2) = 0.03), and SP (p = 0.05; wp(2) = 0.03), but there were no differences in PL (p = 0.18; wp(2) = 0). Finally, no differences were found in the match location comparison (p > 0.33; d = 0.22-0.33). Therefore, the profiles presented could be useful for future scientific purposes and serve as valid information for coaches trying to optimize performance.		[Oliva-Lozano, Jose Maria] Univ Almeria, Hlth Res Ctr, Almeria, Spain; [Gomez-Carmona, Carlos David] Univ Extremadura, Res Grp Optimizat Training & Sports Performance G, Didact Mus Plast & Body Express Dept, Caceres, Spain; [Pino-Ortega, Jose] Univ Murcia, Phys Act & Sports Dept, BioVetMed & Sport Sci Res Grp, Int Excellence Campus Mare Nostrum, Murcia, Spain; [Moreno-Perez, Victor] Miguel Hernandez Univ, Pathol & Surg Dept, Elche, Spain; [Rodriguez-Perez, Manuel Antonio] Sport & Phys Educ Dept, SPORT Res Grp CTS1024, Almeria, Spain; [Gomez-Carmona, Carlos David] Univ Extremadura, Sport Sci Fac, Res Grp Optimizat Training & Sport Performance GO, Dept Didact Mus Plast & Body Express, Ave Univ S-N, Caceres 10005, Spain								46							Sport Sciences	WOS:000590449400017	44	Article; Article		
J	Israetel, Mike; Feather, Jared; Faleiro, Tiago, V; Juneau, Carl-Etienne								Mesocycle Progression in Hypertrophy: Volume Versus Intensity								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				42	5			2	6		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000518			OCT 2020	2020	Week to week progressions over the course of typically 4-8 weeks (before a recovery week is taken) are one of the central forms of progression in a muscle growth training plan. Should the trainee add more weight to the bar each week, add repetitions to the sets, or add whole sets to provide the best hypertrophy-specific overload? Based on the current literature, the likely answer is "some of all 3," but with a progression in set numbers probably being the most well supported. The trade-offs between repetition and weight progression are not as clear and are discussed.		[Israetel, Mike; Feather, Jared; Faleiro, Tiago, V] Renaissance Periodizat, Rome, Italy; [Juneau, Carl-Etienne] Dr Muscle App, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Israetel, Mike] Renaissance Periodizat, Rome, Italy								10							Sport Sciences	WOS:000575994100002	25	Article; Article		
J	Lyons, Amichai; Bagley, James R.								Can Resistance Training at Slow Versus Traditional Repetition Speeds Induce Comparable Hypertrophic and Strength Gains?								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				42	5			48	56		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000532			OCT 2020	2020	The relationship between force and velocity during resistance training can dictate subsequent gains in strength and hypertrophy. Repetition duration (time elapsed during concentric, eccentric, and rest phases) can be manipulated to maximize force or velocity. Based on this current literature review, variation in repetition duration seems to induce similar changes in strength and/or hypertrophy in both novice and experienced lifters. However, relatively faster repetition durations can produce marginal increases in measures of strength and power, and may be more effective for experienced lifters. Although minimally impactful for untrained populations, manipulating repetition duration may be important for athletes training to maximize transfer to sport.		[Lyons, Amichai; Bagley, James R.] San Francisco State Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Muscle Physiol Lab, San Francisco, CA 94132 USA; [Bagley, James R.] San Francisco State Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Muscle Physiol Lab, San Francisco, CA 94132 USA								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:000575994100006	34	Article; Article		
J	Escalante, Guillermo; Barakat, Christopher								Fasted Versus Nonfasted Aerobic Exercise on Body Composition: Considerations for Physique Athletes								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				42	5			71	78		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000565			OCT 2020	2020	Physique athletes often incorporate aerobic exercise as part of their exercise program to increase caloric expenditure for the purposes of improving their body composition. One method used by some physique competitors is to perform aerobic exercise in the fasted state under the assumption that low glycogen levels after an overnight fast allow for greater mobilization of stored fat to be used for fuel because carbohydrates are not readily available to produce energy. The purpose of this article is to examine the existing literature on the effect of fasted versus fed cardio on improving body composition for physique athletes.		[Escalante, Guillermo] Calif State Univ San Bernardino, San Bernardino, CA 92407 USA; [Barakat, Christopher] Competit Breed LLC, Tampa, FL USA; [Barakat, Christopher] Univ Tampa, Human Performance Lab, Tampa, FL 33606 USA; [Escalante, Guillermo] Calif State Univ San Bernardino, San Bernardino, CA 92407 USA								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:000575994100008	65	Article; Article		
J	Pifer, N. David; McLeod, Christopher M.; Travis, William J.; Castleberry, Colten R.								Who Should Sign a Professional Baseball Contract? Quantifying the Financial Opportunity Costs of Major League Draftees								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				21	7			746	780		10.1177/1527002520939615			OCT 2020	2020	Players selected in the annual Major League Baseball First-Year Player Draft have a choice of whether to enter the system or pursue a career outside of professional baseball. As with any choice, there are opportunity costs associated with their decision. The purpose of this study was to analyze those opportunity costs by comparing draftees' expected, non-signing-bonus income to the income of standard laborers. We estimated expected income over the first six seasons of players' careers by combining minor and major league salary data with the probabilities obtained from C5.0 classification models that were applied to a large set of player-related data. Unlike traditional classification methods that produce the probabilities for landing in one of two classes, C5.0 classification models are able to produce the simultaneous probabilities of a player landing in several different classes, or out of professional baseball, in each season. The results show that, all else equal, college fielders drafted in the first 89-90 picks and college pitchers drafted in the first 32 picks (college graduates) or 171 picks (some college) should sign contracts. Pitchers drafted out of high school should sign contracts if they are picked in the first 78 picks, as should fielders selected in the top 118 picks. Beyond these ranges, signing bonuses or higher levels of performance are needed to limit the opportunity costs of pursuing professional baseball. Such findings are relevant to draftees making contract decisions and baseball stakeholders dealing with recent calls for improved wages and labor conditions in the minors.		[Pifer, N. David] Texas Tech Univ, Kinesiol & Sport Management Dept, Sport Management, Lubbock, TX USA; [Travis, William J.; Castleberry, Colten R.] Texas Tech Univ, Lubbock, TX USA; [McLeod, Christopher M.] Univ Florida, Dept Sport Management, Sport Management, Gainesville, FL USA; [Pifer, N. David] Kinesiol & Sport Management, Box 43011, Lubbock, TX 79409 USA								8							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000556267600005	40	Article; Article		
J	Garcia-Aliaga, Abraham; Marquina, Moises; Coteron, Javier; Rodriguez-Gonzalez, Asier; Luengo-Sanchez, Sergio								In-game behaviour analysis of football players using machine learning techniques based on player statistics								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	1			148	157	1747954120959762	10.1177/1747954120959762			FEB 2021	2021	The purpose of this research was to determine the on-field playing positions of a group of football players based on their technical-tactical behaviour using machine learning algorithms. Each player was characterized according to a set of 52 non-spatiotemporal descriptors including offensive, defensive and build-up variables that were computed from OPTA's on-ball event records of the matches for 18 national leagues between the 2012 and 2019 seasons. To test whether positions could be identified from the statistical performance of the players, the dimensionality reduction techniques were used. To better understand the differences between the player positions, the most discriminatory variables for each group were obtained as a set of rules discovered by RIPPER, a machine learning algorithm. From the combination of both techniques, we obtained useful conclusions to enhance the performance of players and to identify positions on the field. The study demonstrates the suitability and potential of artificial intelligence to characterize players' positions according to their technical-tactical behaviour, providing valuable information to the professionals of this sport.		[Garcia-Aliaga, Abraham; Marquina, Moises; Coteron, Javier] Univ Politecn Madrid, Madrid, Spain; [Rodriguez-Gonzalez, Asier; Luengo-Sanchez, Sergio] Olocip, Madrid, Spain; [Marquina, Moises] Univ Politecn Madrid, Dept Deportes, Fac Ciencias Actividad Fis & Deporte, Calle Martin Fierro 7, Madrid 28040, Spain								34							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000574886800001	41	Article; Article		
J	Semperboni, Luca; Vignati, Chiara; Ballatore, Maria Giulia; Tabacco, Anita; Busso, Chiara; Minetto, Marco A.								Diagnostic performance of the Strength and Pain Assessment (SPA) score for non-contact muscle injury screening in male soccer players								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				49	3			316	322		10.1080/00913847.2020.1824986			JUL 3 2021	2021	Objectives The aims of this study were to develop a clinical-feature based scoring system for muscle injury screening and to assess its diagnostic accuracy when large number of injuries are suspected. Methods A prospective diagnostic accuracy study was performed according to the Standards for Reporting of Diagnostic Accuracy (STARD) criteria. The diagnostic accuracy of the Strength and Pain Assessment (SPA) score (index test) was assessed in relation to muscle ultrasonography (reference standard). A large (n = 175) number of male soccer players met the inclusion/exclusion criteria: clinical assessment (i.e., evaluation of pain onset modality, location, distribution, impact on performance, and manual muscle strength testing) and ultrasonography were performed in all players after 48 hours from the sudden or progressive onset of muscle pain during or after a soccer competition. Results 91 of 175 cases (52%) were classified as functional muscle disorders, while signs of muscle tear were observed in the remaining 84 of 175 (48%) cases that were classified as structural muscle injuries. The median (1st - 3rd quartile) value of the SPA score was significantly (P < 0.001) lower in the functional disorder group [9 (9-10)] compared to the structural injury group [12 (12-13)]. The area under the Receiver Operating Characteristic curve for different cutoff points of the SPA score was 0.977 (95% confidence intervals: 0.957-0.998) and the optimal cutoff value of the SPA score providing the greatest sensitivity and specificity (respectively, 99% and 89%) was 11. Conclusion This study found that the SPA score has high diagnostic accuracy for structural muscle injuries and could be used as a valid screening tool in soccer players presenting with sudden or progressive onset of muscle pain during or after a competition.		[Semperboni, Luca] J Med, Turin, Italy; [Vignati, Chiara] Univ Turin, Postgrad Specializat Sch Sports & Exercise Med, Dept Med Sci, Turin, Italy; [Ballatore, Maria Giulia; Tabacco, Anita] Politecn Torino, Dept Math Sci, Turin, Italy; [Busso, Chiara; Minetto, Marco A.] Univ Turin, Dept Surg Sci, Div Phys Med & Rehabil, Turin, Italy; [Minetto, Marco A.] Univ Turin, Dept Surg Sci, I-10126 Turin, Italy								0							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000574034800001	40	Article; Article		
J	Kim, June Chul; Park, Ki Jun								Injuries and rapid weight loss in elite Korean wrestlers: an epidemiological study								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				49	3			308	315		10.1080/00913847.2020.1824536			JUL 3 2021	2021	Objectives The purpose of this study was to reveal the relationship between rapid weight loss and injury patterns during the training of elite wrestlers, expected to represent South Korea. Methods Since 2019, data for elite wrestlers have been collected prospectively by the Korean Training Center. The data were stratified by sex, wrestling style, weight class, injury location, injuries during the weight-loss period, and weight loss method. The chi 2 test was used to compare groups. The risk of injury was indicated by the Poisson rate with a 95% confidence interval (95% CI). Results There were 120 male Greco-Roman, 120 male freestyle, and 100 female freestyle wrestling. The mean weight loss among wrestlers was 5.52 (+/- 1.44) kg, and the mean duration of weight loss was 7.96 (+/- 3.31) days. In general, all wrestlers used similar weight loss methods. We recorded 914 injuries in 340 athletes. Wrestlers had significantly higher injury rates during weight loss periods than during other periods of training (23.18 VS 11.93; p < 0.001). Most injuries occurred in the lower extremities (38.0%), followed by the upper extremities (25.9%), trunk (24.8%), and the head and neck area (11.3%). The injury severity was significantly influenced by sex, wrestling style, and weight class. Conclusion Rapid weight loss is related to the incidence of sports injuries in wrestlers. Most injuries occur during rapid weight loss periods in South Korean elite wrestlers. Moreover, the injury site and injury severity depend on sex, wrestling style, and weight class.		[Kim, June Chul] Texas A&M Univ San Antonio, Coll Educ & Human Dev, Dept Counseling Hlth & Kinesiol, San Antonio, TX USA; [Park, Ki Jun] Dankook Univ, Dept Special Educ, Educ Hall, Yongin, Gyeonggi Do, South Korea; [Park, Ki Jun] Dankook Univ, Dept Special Educ, Educ Hall, Yongin, Gyeonggi Do, South Korea								27							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000573438200001	45	Article; Article		
J	Simonton, Kelly L.; Garn, Alex C.								Emotion and Motivation Consequences of Attributional Training During a Novel Physical Task								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				93	2			219	229		10.1080/02701367.2020.1817836			APR 3 2022	2022	Purpose: Students' positive emotional experiences are an essential physical education outcome because they promote achievement-oriented cognition and behavior. The manner in which students attribute success and failure triggers emotional experiences. Students' beliefs that success is under their control are thought to be a precursor to positive emotions. Research on these relationships has mostly been observational; thus, experimental design was used to address this gap. The purpose of this study was to investigate the effects of attributional training (AT) on students' emotions and motivation toward a PE-related task.Method: Participants were female university students (N = 144; Mage = 20.92, SD = 2.13) recruited from Kinesiology courses. Participants were randomly assigned to one of the three experimental treatments (high AT = 46; low AT = 49; control = 49). Each treatment group received targeted control belief prompts, instruction, and feedback while learning a novel task. Data were collected on students' emotions and motivation before and after treatment.Results: Repeated measures analysis showed that participants receiving high AT increased enjoyment and reduced boredom over time compared to other groups. Feelings of anxiety trended down over time in all three groups while feelings of relief trended up. Free-choice activity did not show a significant group by time interaction.Conclusion: Our results show that AT can influence control beliefs in ways that increase students' enjoyment and reduce boredom in physical education tasks. Therefore, training physical education teachers to create a high AT learning environment appears to be a viable strategy for promoting adaptive emotions when students are learning novel tasks.		[Simonton, Kelly L.] Univ Memphis, Memphis, TN 38152 USA; [Garn, Alex C.] Louisiana State Univ, Baton Rouge, LA 70803 USA; [Simonton, Kelly L.] Univ Memphis, Coll Hlth Sci, 106 Roane Fieldhouse, Memphis, TN 38152 USA								9							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000573105700001	39	Article; Article		
J	Franca da Silva, Anne Kastelianne; Santos, Lorena Altafin; Lopez Laurino, Maria Julia; Vanzella, Lais Manata; Ribeiro, Felipe; Rozan, Gustavo Bochini; Marques Vanderlei, Luiz Carlos								Hydration Influence on the Autonomic Recovery of the Coronary Diseases Patient: Geometric Indices Analysis								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				93	2			230	239		10.1080/02701367.2020.1818672			APR 3 2022	2022	Purpose: To evaluate the recovery period of autonomic modulation, through geometric indices of heart rate variability (HRV), on coronary artery disease (CAD) patients submitted to a cardiovascular rehabilitation session (CR), associated with hydration.Methods: Thirty male participants of a CR program, diagnosed with CAD were submitted to the control (CP) and hydration protocol (HP) characterized by a CR session. Only during HP were the participants given 8 equal portions of water. The water amount was determined through the hydric loss measured at the CP. During the protocols, the heart rate was measured beat-by-beat at rest (5-10 minutes[M1]) and at recovery (0-5 minutes [M2], 5-10 minutes [M3], 15-20 minutes [M4], 25-30 minutes [M5], 40-45 minutes [M6], 55-60 minutes [M7]) for the HRV analysis, performed by the geometric indices: TINN, RRTRI, SD1, SD2 and SD1/SD2 ratio.Results: Statistically significant differences were observed between the protocols (SD1,p(value) = 0.022), moments (TINN,p(value) = 0.001; SD1,p(value) = 0.019; SD2,p(value) = 0.001; SD1/SD2,p(value) = 0.001) and moments vs. protocol interaction (SD1,p(value) = 0.019). The SD1 index pointed to acceleration of parasympathetic recovery in the first minutes after exercising (HP recovery after M3 [86.07 +/- 32.31%] vs. CP recovery after M5[86.43 +/- 24.56]) and increase in global variability (TINN-HP remained increased in longer, until M5 (M1 83.10 +/- 55.76 ms to M5 116.82 +/- 67.54 ms) vs. CP that remained increased for a short time, until M2 (M1 77.93 +/- 68.56 ms to M2 134.82 +/- 56.08 ms).Conclusions: In CAD patients, hydration promoted a more efficient recovery on parasympathetic autonomic modulation and increased the global HRV in the recovery period.		[Franca da Silva, Anne Kastelianne; Santos, Lorena Altafin; Lopez Laurino, Maria Julia; Vanzella, Lais Manata; Ribeiro, Felipe; Marques Vanderlei, Luiz Carlos] Sao Paulo State Univ UNESP, Presidente Prudente, SP, Brazil; [Rozan, Gustavo Bochini] ABC Sch Med, Andre, Brazil; [Franca da Silva, Anne Kastelianne] Sao Paulo State Univ UNESP, Fac Sci & Technol, Physiotherapy Dept, Roberto Simonsen St 305, BR-19060900 Presidente Prudente, SP, Brazil								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000573114500001	59	Article; Article		
J	Heller, Lauren R.; Stephenson, E. Frank								How Does the Super Bowl Affect Host City Tourism?								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				22	2			183	201	1527002520959393	10.1177/1527002520959393			FEB 2021	2021	This paper uses a unique dataset containing more than eight years of daily data to examine the effect of the Super Bowl on hotel room rentals, rates, and room revenue in four recent host cities. The findings include (1) the net gain in rentals is considerably fewer than the gross number of rooms rented, (2) benefits are heterogeneous across cities, (3) the areas that benefit are not always those located close to stadiums, and (4) nearly 90% of hotel room revenue gained is because of increased room rates which means concerns about leakages from host cities' regional economies are salient.		[Heller, Lauren R.; Stephenson, E. Frank] Berry Coll, Dept Accounting Econ & Finance, Campus Box 495024, Mt Berry, GA 30149 USA; [Heller, Lauren R.] Berry Coll, Dept Accounting Econ & Finance, Campus Box 495024, Mt Berry, GA 30149 USA								20							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000572649800001	20	Article; Article		
J	Gray, Adrian; Andrews, Mark; Waldron, Mark; Jenkins, David								A model for calculating the mechanical demands of overground running								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				22	10			1256	1277		10.1080/14763141.2020.1795238			OCT 3 2023	2023	An energy-based approach to quantifying the mechanical demands of overground, constant velocity and/or intermittent running patterns is presented. Total mechanical work done (W-total) is determined from the sum of the four sub components: work done to accelerate the centre of mass horizontally (W-hor), vertically (W-vert), to overcome air resistance (W-air) and to swing the limbs (W-limbs). These components are determined from established relationships between running velocity and running kinematics; and the application of work-energy theorem. The model was applied to constant velocity running (2-9 m/s), a hard acceleration event and a hard deceleration event. The estimatedW(total)and each sub component were presented as mechanical demand (work per unit distance) and power (work per unit time), for each running pattern. The analyses demonstrate the model is able to produce estimates that: 1) are principally determined by the absolute running velocity and/or acceleration; and 2) can be attributed to different mechanical demands given the nature of the running bout. Notably, the proposed model is responsive to varied running patterns, producing data that are consistent with established human locomotion theory; demonstrating sound construct validity. Notwithstanding several assumptions, the model may be applied to quantify overground running demands on flat surfaces.		[Gray, Adrian; Waldron, Mark] Univ New England, Sch Sci & Technol, Armidale, NSW, Australia; [Andrews, Mark] Queensland Acad Sport, Queensland Govt, Nathan, Qld, Australia; [Waldron, Mark] Swansea Univ, Coll Engn, Swansea, W Glam, Wales; [Jenkins, David] Univ Queensland, Sch Human Movement & Nutr Sci, St Lucia, Qld, Australia; [Gray, Adrian] Univ New England, Sch Sci & Technol, Armidale, NSW, Australia								9							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000571282900001	66	Article; Article		
J	Viellehner, Josef; Potthast, Wolfgang								The effect of road-bike damping on neuromuscular short-term performance								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				19	6			723	737		10.1080/14763141.2020.1797153			NOV 1 2020	2020	The aim of this study was to understand if and how surface-induced vibrations and road bike damping affect short-term neuromuscular performance in cycling. Thirty cyclists (mass 75.9 +/- 8.9 kg, height 1.82 +/- 0.05 m, Vo2max 63.0 +/- 6.8 ml/min/kg) performed steady-state and maximum effort tests with and without vibration exposure (front dropout: 44 Hz, 4.1 mm; rear dropout: 38 Hz, 3.5 mm) on a damped and a nondamped bike. Transmitted accelerations to the musculoskeletal system, activation of lower extremity muscles (gast. med., soleus, vast. med., rec. fem.) and upper body muscles (erec. spinae, deltoideus, tric. brachii), oxygen uptake, heart rate and crank power output were measured. The main findings indicate a transmission of vibration to the whole body, but since no major propulsive muscles increase their activation with vibration, the systemic energy demand increases only marginally with vibration. Damping reduces vibrations at the upper body, which indicates an increase in comfort, but has no effect on the vibration transfer to the lower extremities. Therefore, road bike damping does not affect neuromuscular response of the propulsive muscle groups and energy demand. Consequently, short-term power output does not increase with damping.		[Viellehner, Josef; Potthast, Wolfgang] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Biomech & Orthopaed, Cologne, Germany; [Viellehner, Josef] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Biomech & Orthopaed, Cologne, Germany								2							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000571600900001	38	Article; Article		
J	Grimshaw, Scott D.; Larson, Jeffrey S.								Effect of Star Power on NBA All-Star Game TV Audience								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				22	2			139	163	1527002520959127	10.1177/1527002520959127			FEB 2021	2021	Data from 16 years of NBA All-Star Games shows star power has two components. First, fans are drawn to live games featuring players whose current play is at a historically high skill level. Second, fans display attachment based on geographical proximity to a team, local superstar recognition, and team success. All-Star games are exhibitions with a roster of different levels of high skill level and attachment, while competitive games have these effects confounded and star players are sparse. The analysis uses a dynamic panel data model to account for differences in viewing between 56 Nielsen TV markets.		[Grimshaw, Scott D.] Brigham Young Univ, Stat, Provo, UT 84602 USA; [Grimshaw, Scott D.; Larson, Jeffrey S.] Brigham Young Univ, Mkt, Marriott Sch Business, Provo, UT 84602 USA; [Grimshaw, Scott D.] Brigham Young Univ, Dept Stat, Provo, UT 84602 USA								20							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000570923200001	39	Article; Article		
J	Annesi, James J.								Exercise Amounts and Short- to Long-Term Weight Loss: Psychological Implications for Behavioral Treatments of Obesity								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				92	4			851	864		10.1080/02701367.2020.1799917			OCT 2 2021	2021	Purpose: Although exercise is typically included in behavioral weight-loss programs, the amount associated with meaningful short- to long-term weight reduction required investigation. Indirect paths between exercise-associated psychological changes and weight loss might be more relevant than the direct effect of exercise on energy expenditure-related weight loss in deconditioned/obese individuals.Method: Sedentary women with obesity (N = 97;M-age = 47.2 years) participated in a year-long cognitive-behavioral weight-loss treatment that emphasized building self-regulatory skills to maintain exercise in advance of transferring those skills to controlled eating.Results: There was a significant increase in exercise (metabolic equivalents/week or leisure score index; LSI), and significant improvements in mood, self-regulation for exercise, and self-regulation for eating from baseline to Months 6, 12, and 24. There were 5.9%, 5.8%, and 5.8% reductions in weight, respectively. Completion of 15-20 LSI did not significantly differ from greater amounts on associated weight losses except for the rare occurrence of >= 30 LSI over the full 24-month study period. There were significant bivariate relationships between completion of >= 15 LSI and weight loss over 6, 12, and 24 months. Within serial mediation analyses assessing changes from baseline-Months 6 and 24, there were significant indirect paths from >= 15 LSI -> self-regulation for exercise -> self-regulation for eating -> weight loss, and >= 15 LSI -> negative mood -> self-regulation for exercise -> self-regulation for eating -> weight loss. Those paths were not significant when baseline-Month 12 changes were entered.Conclusion: Findings suggested the value of even manageable exercise amounts because of their association with psychosocial correlates of weight loss, and informed behavioral obesity treatments.		[Annesi, James J.] YMCA Metro Atlanta, 569 Martin Luther King,Jr Dr NW, Atlanta, GA 30314 USA; [Annesi, James J.] Univ Alabama Birmingham, Birmingham, AL USA; [Annesi, James J.] YMCA Metro Atlanta, 569 Martin Luther King,Jr Dr NW, Atlanta, GA 30314 USA								10							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000570257800001	65	Article; Article		
J	Altarriba-Bartes, Albert; Pena, Javier; Vicens-Bordas, Jordi; Casals, Marti; Peirau, Xavier; Calleja-Gonzalez, Julio								The use of recovery strategies by Spanish first division soccer teams: a cross-sectional survey								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				49	3			297	307		10.1080/00913847.2020.1819150			JUL 3 2021	2021	Objectives different active and passive post-exercise recovery techniques such as massage, foam rolling, stretching or ice baths among others, are used by elite athletes to promote effective physiological, physical, and mental restoration. However, limited research is available investigating the use of recovery strategies in professional soccer. As such, we aimed to explore and describe the use of strategies by professional teams throughout the season, describing competitive and preparatory phases. Methods the present study collected data from all professional Spanish soccer teams who played in 'LaLiga' (The Spanish first division), during the season 2018-2019 (n = 20) and the ones promoted for the season 2019-2020 (n = 3). A six-section online survey was responded once. Results teams used different recovery protocols and combinations, although natural and physical strategies such as sleep/nap, food/fluid replacement, cold/ice bath/shower/immersion, and massage were always present. However, there is no agreement in the protocols and timings employed. Three physical strategies showed a higher presence in the recovery protocols after competition: cold/ice bath/shower/immersion, massage and foam rolling; always used by seventeen teams (74%), sixteen (70%) and thirteen (57%) respectively. The design and supervision of recovery are multidisciplinary tasks in 87% of the teams. Our findings also demonstrate that although there is a body of scientific evidence on recovery, a gap between theory and practice exists with 13% of the teams acknowledging that insufficient logistics and economic resources limit the use of some strategies, and two teams (9%) not periodizing or individualizing recovery. Conclusion the investigation provided insight into the current use of recovery strategies by 'LaLiga' teams, highlighting that all clubs used them to one extent or another, but also that significant variability responding to individualized perceptions exists. Moreover, this study provides relevant contextual information that may be useful for professional soccer staff concerning the use of recovery strategies.		[Altarriba-Bartes, Albert; Pena, Javier] Cent Univ Catalonia, Univ Vic, Sport Performance Anal Res Grp SPARG, Barcelona, Spain; [Altarriba-Bartes, Albert; Pena, Javier; Vicens-Bordas, Jordi] Cent Univ Catalonia, Univ Vic, UVic UCC Sport & Phys Act Studies Ctr CEEAF, Barcelona, Spain; [Vicens-Bordas, Jordi] Univ Girona, Res Grp Clin Anat Embryol & Neurosci NEOMA, Dept Med Sci, Girona, Spain; [Vicens-Bordas, Jordi] Univ Girona, Sch Hlth & Sport Sci EUSES, Girona, Spain; [Vicens-Bordas, Jordi] Univ De Girona, Sch Hlth & Sport Sci EUSES, Salt, Spain; [Casals, Marti] Cent Univ Catalonia, Univ Vic, Fac Med, UVic UCC Sport & Phys Act Studies Ctr CEEAF, Barcelona, Spain; [Casals, Marti] Futbol Club Barcelona, Barca Innovat Hub, Med Dept, Barcelona, Spain; [Peirau, Xavier] Inst Nacl Educ Fis Catalunya INEFC, Res Grp Human Movement, Lleida, Spain; [Calleja-Gonzalez, Julio] Univ Basque Country, UPV EHU, Fac Educ & Sport, Dept Phys Educ & Sports, Vitoria, Spain; [Pena, Javier] Cent Univ Catalonia, Univ Vic, Sport & Phys Act Studies Ctr CEEAF, Barcelona, Spain								43							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000569460200001	67	Article; Article		
J	Cerrah, Ali Onur; Simsek, Deniz; Soylu, Abdullah Ruhi; Nunome, Hiroyuki; Ertan, Hayri								Developmental differences of kinematic and muscular activation patterns in instep soccer kick								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	1			28	43		10.1080/14763141.2020.1815827			JAN 2 2024	2024	Kinematic and neuromuscular activity differences amongst soccer players in different age groups were examined in this study. Thirty male soccer players evenly divided into three age groups (Group 1: age 12-13; Group 2: age 14-15; Group 3: age 16-17) were asked to perform instep kicks towards a target 11 m away. Their anthropometrics, instep kick kinematics, resultant ball velocities, both legs isokinetic strength, and electromyography (EMG) during kicking were compared amongst the three age groups. There were significant differences in height, body mass, body mass index, ball velocities, and isokinetic strength values amongst three age groups. Also, kicking kinematics including angular and linear velocities of hip, knee, ankle, and toe were significantly different (p < 0.05) amongst groups in several kicking phases. Furthermore, the activities of m. rectus femoris, m. vastus medialis, m. biceps femoris were significantly different amongst groups (p < 0.05). The ball velocities and leg strength parameters increased with age, neuromuscular activations, and kinematic parameters differed especially in leg-coking and forward swing phase of instep soccer kick. It should be concluded that an increase of resultant ball velocity of the instep kick is closely associated with chronical age, the development of leg muscle strength, and the neuromuscular activity of the kicking leg.		[Cerrah, Ali Onur; Ertan, Hayri] Eskisehir Tech Univ, Dept Coaching Educ, Fac Sport Sci, Eskisehir, Turkiye; [Simsek, Deniz] Eskisehir Tech Univ, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Teaching, Fac Sport Sci, Eskisehir, Turkiye; [Soylu, Abdullah Ruhi] Hacettepe Univ, Biophys Dept, Fac Med, Ankara, Turkiye; [Nunome, Hiroyuki] Fukuoka Univ, Fac Sports & Hlth Sci, Fukuoka, Japan; [Cerrah, Ali Onur] Eskisehir Tech Univ, Dept Coaching Educ, Fac Sport Sci, Eskisehir, Turkiye								13							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000569838100001	51	Article; Article		
J	Mayer, Kurt C.; Hungenberg, Eric								Sport attendance behavior spectrum: motivators, constraints and context								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				22	3			566	587		10.1108/IJSMS-04-2020-0070			JUN 14 2021	2021	Purpose The purpose of this paper was to explore a new sport attendance behavior spectrum framework where sport consumer behavior is not derived from just a dichotomy of a motivator positively impacting attendance or a constraint negatively impacting attendance. Rather, when accounting for the context of the setting (e.g. sport, playing level, locality, patron type, etc.), some areas belong on a spectrum that fluctuates between positive and negative impacts on attendance that are dependent on the context of the given environment. Design/methodology/approach Through factor analysis and structural equation modeling, the proposed model attempted to explain relationships between five second-order factors and game attendance, which expanded to include the new internal contextual and external contextual factors, and ultimately team fandom. Findings The results indicated three significant main effects where internal contextual exhibited a positive relationship with attendance, while constraints and external contextual demonstrated a negative relationship. Internal and external motives were not significant. Further, the moderating effect of high and low sport interest groupings largely indicated no significant spectator differences. The model explained 24% of the variance in attendance, and attendance accounted for 41% of the variance in team fandom. Originality/value Attendance is intricate, and this study highlighted the importance of considering and adapting to the sporting context as some factors exist on a sport attendance behavior spectrum and differently impact spectators positively or negatively, given the context of the setting. Further, in this lower-level sport setting, consumers viewed minor league hockey more as a leisure commodity than a premier sport contest.		[Mayer, Kurt C.] Roanoke Coll, Dept Hlth & Human Performance, Sport Management, Salem, VA 24153 USA; [Hungenberg, Eric] Univ Tennessee Chattanooga, Dept Hlth & Human Performance, Chattanooga, TN USA; [Mayer, Kurt C.] Roanoke Coll, Dept Hlth & Human Performance, Sport Management, Salem, VA 24153 USA								12							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000570693400001	83	Article; Article		
J	Friedman, Michael T.; Beissel, Adam S.								Beyond "who pays?": stadium development and urban governance								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				22	1			107	125		10.1108/IJSMS-04-2020-0053			MAR 29 2021	2021	Purpose The purpose of this paper is to reframe analyses of stadium and arena subsidization policies from perspectives centered upon economic and financial issues toward a perspective focused on broader issues of urban governance and the public purposes of sports facilities. Such assessments would provide a better understanding of whether such use of public resources represents good public policy. Design/methodology/approach To demonstrate this, the paper uses an integrated literature review to offer a historical analysis of sport facility development within the context of the broader assumptions that shape public policy and how sports have been used toward achieving particular public goals. This history provides a foundation for an analysis of sports facility development within the current moment as cities require team owners to invest in redevelopment activities in the neighborhoods surrounding sports facilities. Findings This paper asserts that focusing on the economic and financial aspects of sports facility development is a perspective that is too narrow. Instead, this paper shows that a more holistic approach, beginning with the dominant mode of urban governance and how its assumptions underlie the public purposes for which stadiums and arenas are used, provides a better explanatory framework and a deeper understanding of the issue in the contemporary moment. Originality/value Moving beyond the question of economic efficacy, the public purpose-centered approach of this paper seeks to place subsidization policies into a broader dialog with other priorities toward maximizing the public good among the broadest population.		[Friedman, Michael T.] Univ Maryland, Kinesiol, College Pk, MD 20742 USA; [Beissel, Adam S.] Miami Univ, Kinesiol & Hlth, Oxford, OH 45056 USA; [Friedman, Michael T.] Univ Maryland, Kinesiol, College Pk, MD 20742 USA								9							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000570426400001	86	Article; Article		
J	Caprettini, Bruno								Team Visibility and City Travel: Evidence From the UEFA Champions' League Random Draw								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				22	1			85	114	1527002520955208	10.1177/1527002520955208			JAN 2021	2021	Does hosting a sports team boost the visibility of a city among tourists? I test this proposition by looking at the effect of playing soccer's UEFA Champions' League on air travel. I compare routes across cities that had their teams randomly drawn into the same group in the first phase of the competition to routes across cities hosting teams randomly allocated to different groups. The average effect of being drawn into the same group is between 5% and 8% more arrivals for the 3 months following the group stage, a period which coincides with a break in the competition. The first appearance of a team in the competition has a larger impact on air travel, providing suggesting evidence of diminishing returns of exposure.		[Caprettini, Bruno] Univ Zurich, Schoenberggasse 1, CH-8001 Zurich, Switzerland; [Caprettini, Bruno] Univ Zurich, Schoenberggasse 1, CH-8001 Zurich, Switzerland								3							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000568526700001	33	Article; Article		
J	De Meester, An; Wazir, Mohd Rozilee Wazir Norjali; Lenoir, Matthieu; Bardid, Farid								Profiles of Physical Fitness and Fitness Enjoyment Among Children: Associations With Sports Participation								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				93	1			26	35		10.1080/02701367.2020.1788700			JAN 2 2022	2022	Purpose:The present study examined whether groups of children with different physical fitness and fitness enjoyment profiles could be identified and, if so, whether the different groups varied from one another in terms of organized sports participation.Method: Five hundred and fifty-eight 8-11-year-olds (56.99% boys) participated in this cross-sectional study. Physical fitness and fitness enjoyment were assessed with seven items from a standardized test battery and a pictorial scale containing pictures referring to the enjoyment in those seven physical fitness tests, respectively. To examine whether groups with different fitness and enjoyment profiles could be identified, we conducted cluster analyses based on children's standardized physical fitness and fitness enjoyment scores. A two-way ANCOVA (sex*cluster) was conducted to investigate differences in weekly organized sports participation among each of the identified groups while controlling for age.Results: Cluster analyses revealed two groups with aligned levels of physical fitness and fitness enjoyment (i.e., relatively low-low and relatively high-high) and two groups with unaligned levels (i.e., relatively low-moderate and relatively high-moderate), respectively. Both groups with relatively high fitness scores were found to spend significantly more time in organized sports (M = 2.01 h and 2.29 h, respectively) than the two groups with relatively low fitness scores (M = 1.08 h and 0.98 h, respectively), irrespective of their enjoyment levels.Conclusion:Increasing physical fitness levels (especially among those children with suboptimal enjoyment levels) may lead to increased organized sports participation, while increased organized sports participation in its turn may lead to higher fitness levels. As such, participation in sports programs should be promoted in children of all age groups.		[De Meester, An] Univ South Carolina, Columbia, SC 29208 USA; [De Meester, An; Lenoir, Matthieu; Bardid, Farid] Univ Ghent, Ghent, Belgium; [De Meester, An] Flemish Govt, Policy Res Ctr Sports, Brussels, Belgium; [Wazir, Mohd Rozilee Wazir Norjali] Univ Putra Malaysia, Serdang, Malaysia; [Bardid, Farid] Univ Strathclyde, Glasgow, Lanark, Scotland; [De Meester, An] Univ South Carolina, Dept Phys Educ, Blatt PE Ctr,1300 Wheat St,Off 218N, Columbia, SC 29208 USA								12							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000567621100001	41	Article; Article		
J	Su, Zhaohui; Zeng, Chengbo								The Effects of Health Consideration on Exergaming Behavior in College Students: A Structural Equation Perspective								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				93	1			96	104		10.1080/02701367.2020.1801970			JAN 2 2022	2022	Purpose: Exergaming play is associated with positive health benefits and increased engagement in physical activity outcomes in players. Research also indicates that factors such as enjoyment and entertainment drive users' exergame activities. However, despite advances in the area, little is known about whether health consideration and physical activity impact college students' exergaming behavior.Method: A cross-sectional online survey of open-ended and fixed questions was completed by 403 college students (Mage = 20.02,SD = 2.3; Range: 17-35; 73.2% female) from a large southwestern university. Descriptive analyses and structural equation modeling techniques were used to draw insights from the data.Results: Among the participants, nearly 87.6% of them reported participating in exergaming behavior. Both measurement and structural models showed good model fits. Health consideration (Std.beta =.30,p <.01) and leisure-time physical activity (Std.beta =.28,p <.01) were positively associated with exergaming behavior while health consideration was not significantly associated with leisure-time physical activity (Std.beta =.05,p =.38). The mediation analysis revealed that the indirect effect from health consideration to exergaming behavior through leisure-time physical activity was not statistically significant (Std.beta =.01,p =.38). Leisure-time physical activity could not mediate the relationship between health consideration and exergaming behavior.Conclusions: By pointing out the important role of health consideration and physical activity in college students' exergaming play, findings of this study can help exergame developers and gamification interventionists to design more effective programs and, in turn, facilitate positive intervention outcomes.		[Su, Zhaohui] Univ Texas Hlth Sci Ctr San Antonio, San Antonio, TX 78229 USA; [Zeng, Chengbo] Univ South Carolina, Columbia, SC 29208 USA; [Su, Zhaohui] Univ Texas Hlth Sci Ctr San Antonio, Sch Nursing, Ctr Smart & Connected Hlth Technol, Mays Canc Ctr, 7703 Floyd Curl Dr, San Antonio, TX 78229 USA								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000567565100001	58	Article; Article		
J	Schmid, Michael J.; Conzelmann, Achim; Zuber, Claudia								Patterns of achievement-motivated behavior and performance as predictors for future success in rowing: A person-oriented study								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	1			101	109	1747954120953658	10.1177/1747954120953658			FEB 2021	2021	Talent selection in rowing is often solely based on anthropometric and performance variables, even though psychological characteristics are considered to be important contributors to successful talent development. Because multidimensional talent models and holistic theories represent the state-of-the-art in talent research, we aimed to find patterns connecting psychological and performance variables to future success in rowing. Therefore, 22 coaches rated the achievement-motivated behavior represented by the variables proactivity, ambition and commitment of 65 competitive to high-level athletes (M-age = 17.2 +/- 1.55 years) for the past year (t(1)). Additionally, the athletes performed several 2,000 m ergometer tests during that same period. At t(2)(30 months later), each rower's performance was evaluated based on the success at different competitions. To examine the results, we used the person-oriented Linking of Clusters after removal of a Residue (LICUR) method to identify the relationships between the achievement-motivated behavior and ergometer results at t(1)and the success at t(2). The rowers could be assigned to five clusters. Although thehighly motivated rowerswere not the fastest on the ergometer at t(1), they were more likely to be in highest performance level at t(2)compared to the other clusters (OR = 3.5,p < .05). By contrast, all theambitionless rowersandunmotivated rowerswere either racing at national level or had dropped out. In conclusion, certain patterns of achievement-motivated behavior and current performance are associated with future success (30 months later). The consideration of achievement-motivated behavior in the selection of rowers seems promising in this context.		[Schmid, Michael J.; Conzelmann, Achim; Zuber, Claudia] Univ Bern, Inst Sport Sci, Bremgartenstr 145, CH-3012 Bern, Switzerland; [Schmid, Michael J.] Univ Bern, Inst Sport Sci, Bremgartenstr 145, CH-3012 Bern, Switzerland								9							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000567848700001	65	Article; Article		
J	Solomons, Jocelyn; Kraak, Wilbur; Kidd, Martin; Africa, Eileen								The effect of a rhythmic movement intervention on selected bio-motor skills of academy rugby players in the Western Cape, South Africa								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	1			91	100	1747954120956909	10.1177/1747954120956909			FEB 2021	2021	Rhythmic movement, also referred to as "dance", involves the execution of different motor skills as well as the integration and sequencing of actions between limbs, timing and spatial precision. The aim of this study was therefore to investigate and compare the effect of a 16-week rhythmic movement intervention on flexibility, dynamic balance, agility, power and local muscular endurance of academy rugby players in the Western Cape, according to positional groups. Players (N = 54) (age 18.66 +/- 0.81 years; height 1.76 +/- 0.69 cm; weight 76.77 +/- 10.69 kg), were randomly divided into a treatment-control [TCA] (n = 28) and a control-treatment [CTB] (n = 26) group. In this crossover experimental design, the interaction effect of the treatment order and the treatment time between the TC(A)and CT(B)group, was determined. Results indicated a statistically significant improvement (p < 0.05) in agility(2)(p = 0.06), power(2)(p = 0.05), local muscular endurance(1)(p = 0.01) & 3 (p = 0.01) and dynamic balance (p < 0.01). Likewise, forwards and backs also showed statistically significant improvements (p < 0.05) per positional groups. Therefore, a rhythmic movement intervention has the potential to improve rugby-specific bio-motor skills and furthermore, improve positional specific skills should it be designed with positional groups in mind. Future studies should investigate, not only the effect of rhythmic movement on improving specific rugby bio-motor skills, but the potential of its application as an alternative training method during off-season (or detraining phases) or as a recovery method.		[Solomons, Jocelyn; Kraak, Wilbur; Africa, Eileen] Stellenbosch Univ, Dept Sports Sci, Fac Med & Hlth Sci, Stellenbosch, South Africa; [Kidd, Martin] Stellenbosch Univ, Dept Stat & Actuarial Sci, Ctr Stat Consultat, Stellenbosch, South Africa; [Africa, Eileen] Stellenbosch Univ, Dept Sports Sci, Fac Med & Hlth Sci, Stellenbosch, South Africa								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000567878300001	44	Article; Article		
J	Gorman, A. D.; Headrick, J.; Renshaw, I; McCormack, C. J.; Topp, K. M.								A principled approach to equipment scaling for children's sport: A case study in basketball								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	1			158	165	1747954120954569	10.1177/1747954120954569			FEB 2021	2021	The aims of this research were to (a) demonstrate how a principled approach using anthropometric measures of the hand can be used to identify the most appropriate basketball size for junior basketball players and (b) examine participants' preferences in relation to the use of different sized basketballs after gameplay. The hand spans and hand lengths of junior and senior male basketball players were measured and used to create hand size-to-ball-size ratios. Junior male basketball players also competed in 3 vs 3 half-court games using size 3, 4, 5, and 6 basketballs. Using the hand size-to-ball-size ratio as a means of scaling equipment for junior basketball players revealed that the most appropriate ball for 11-year-old boys is size 3 or 4, however, the junior players preferred using the larger basketballs (size 5 and 6) during gameplay. Anthropometric measures of the hand can be used by sports administrators and coaches as a principled means to scale sports equipment for juniors. Given that the preferred ball size appears to be influenced by the prior experiences of each child, it may be important for scaled equipment to be introduced during the initial stages of motor learning.		[Gorman, A. D.; Renshaw, I; Topp, K. M.] Queensland Univ Technol, Sch Exercise & Nutr Sci, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [Gorman, A. D.; McCormack, C. J.] Univ Sunshine Coast, Sch Hlth & Sport Sci, Sippy Downs, Qld, Australia; [Headrick, J.] Griffith Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Sci, Gold Coast, Australia; [Topp, K. M.] Netball Queensland, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [Gorman, A. D.] Queensland Univ Technol, Sch Exercise & Nutr Sci, Brisbane, Qld, Australia								17							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000567846700001	47	Article; Article		
J	Kang, Tae-Ahn; Matsuoka, Hirotaka								The effect of sponsorship purpose articulation on fit: moderating role of mission overlap								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				22	3			550	565		10.1108/IJSMS-07-2020-0120			JUN 14 2021	2021	Purpose - This study aimed to examine the effects of two sponsorship purpose articulations (commercially oriented vs noncommercially oriented) on attitude toward the sponsor via sponsor-property fit and the moderating effect of the overlapped mission between the sponsor and the property. Design/methodology/approach - A 2 (purpose articulation type: commercially oriented vs noncommercially oriented) x 2 (mission overlap articulation condition: present vs absent) between-subjects experimental design with a control condition was employed with student sample (n = 171). The moderated mediation model was tested using Hayes' PROCESS macro model 8. Findings - The commercially oriented purpose articulation did not improve sponsor-property fit as much as the noncommercially oriented purpose articulation, resulting in less favorable attitudes toward the sponsor. When the mission overlap was simultaneously articulated, the less positive effects of the commercially oriented purpose articulation were weaker. Practical implications - The findings provided incongruent sponsors with insights on mixed articulation strategies with sponsorship purposes and the overlapped mission. Originality/value - This study extends previous research by presenting the first understanding of the different processes in which two sponsorship purpose articulations developed attitudes toward the sponsor via sponsor-property fit and by investigating the moderating effect of the simultaneously articulated mission overlap on the processes.		[Kang, Tae-Ahn] Waseda Univ, Grad Sch Sport Sci, Tokyo, Japan; [Matsuoka, Hirotaka] Waseda Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Tokyo, Japan; [Matsuoka, Hirotaka] Waseda Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Tokyo, Japan								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000568198800001	67	Article; Article		
J	Moreno, Francisco Javier; Hernandez-Davo, Jose Luis; Garcia, Juan Antonio; Sabido, Rafael; Urban, Tomas; Caballero, Carla								Kinematics and performance of team-handball throwing: effects of age and skill level								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				22	10			1348	1363		10.1080/14763141.2020.1800072			OCT 3 2023	2023	To assess the influence of age and skill level on handball throwing kinematics and performance, 126 participants were distributed into groups according to their skill level (elite or recreational) and age group (U12, U16 or +18). Each participant performed three sets of 10 throws, aiming to hit a target (40 x 40 cm) located in the right corner of the goal. During testing, kinematic data were recorded and throwing performance (accuracy and velocity) was measured. Results showed greater throwing velocity in the elite compared to recreational groups, whereas no differences were found for throwing accuracy. The elite U16 and +18 groups displayed higher segment velocities (hand, arm and pelvis) than the recreational groups. The participation of proximal segments was higher in older groups, showing the more skilled players (U16 and +18) greater pelvis velocities (1.62-1.75 vs 1.02-1.22 m/s). The increased velocity of the distal joints (hand peak velocity: 13.56 +/- 1.65 vs 10.67 +/- 1.98 m/s) are responsible for the difference in throwing velocity between the elite and recreational U12 groups. Several correlations were found between joint kinematics and throwing velocity. Coaches could use these results during training, to optimise specific throwing training.		[Moreno, Francisco Javier; Hernandez-Davo, Jose Luis; Sabido, Rafael; Urban, Tomas; Caballero, Carla] Miguel Hernandez Univ, Sport Res Ctr, Elche, Spain; [Hernandez-Davo, Jose Luis] Univ Isabel I, Fac Hlth Sci, Burgos, Spain; [Garcia, Juan Antonio] Salamanca Univ, Fac Teacher Format, Salamanca, Spain; [Hernandez-Davo, Jose Luis] Miguel Hernandez Univ, Sport Res Ctr, Elche, Spain; [Hernandez-Davo, Jose Luis] Univ Isabel I, Fac Hlth Sci, Burgos, Spain								5							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000566625500001	27	Article; Article		
J	Preuss, Holger; Plambeck, Anke								Utilization of Olympic Stadiums: a conceptual stadium legacy framework								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				22	1			10	31		10.1108/IJSMS-06-2020-0110			MAR 29 2021	2021	Purpose Olympic Stadiums are expensive and large constructions. The media often report on cost overruns based on the extravagant appearance of an Olympic Stadium and the lack of its postgames utilization. The aim of this paper is to provide a conceptual stadium legacy framework consisting of four dimensions and twelve functions that an Olympic Stadium can potentially have. Design/methodology/approach These were identified by an extensive literature research and an analysis of the findings. Additionally, we collected available data on the specific Olympic Stadiums under review (1984-2016). Findings The utilization of Olympic Stadiums varies greatly from city to city. However, 12 functions can be observed as being valid for Olympic Stadiums. The dimensions with its functions are interpreted by the positive/negative values which Olympic Stadiums can have for particular stakeholders. The benefits can be local, regional, national or international. The framework also delivers interconnections of the functions and shows how they interlock and how they can potentially boost the benefits. Practical implications Future bid cities that consider constructing a large stadium can plan their stadium legacy by developing business cases based on the 12 functions developed in this paper. This offers a direct link to marketing, as iconic stadiums and urban development support city marketing. Originality/value To date, the complexity of functions and their interconnections, as well as their potential values, have not been examined. Thus, many (media) critiques oversee the benefits an Olympic Stadium can have besides its proper sport utilization.		[Preuss, Holger; Plambeck, Anke] Johannes Gutenberg Univ Mainz, Inst Sport Sci, Fac Social Sci Media & Sports, Mainz, Germany; [Preuss, Holger] Molde Univ Coll, Dept Econ Informat & Social Sci, Molde, Norway; [Preuss, Holger] Johannes Gutenberg Univ Mainz, Inst Sport Sci, Fac Social Sci Media & Sports, Mainz, Germany; [Preuss, Holger] Molde Univ Coll, Dept Econ Informat & Social Sci, Molde, Norway								15							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000570752200001	71	Article; Article		
J	Senisik, Seckin; Denerel, Nevzad; Koyagasioglu, Ogun; Tunc, Serhat								The effect of isolation on athletes' mental health during the COVID-19 pandemic								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				49	2			187	193		10.1080/00913847.2020.1807297			APR 3 2021	2021	Objective We aimed to explore whether the mental health status of professional athletes was affected by the isolation period in which organized sports were suspended due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Methods A total of 612 volunteers between the ages of 18-38 enrolled in the study, 418 of them were athletes engaged in team sports or individual sports and 194 of them were non-athletes. Participants completed the Depression - Anxiety - Stress Scale 21 (DASS-21), the Impact of Events Scale-Revised (IES-R) and International Physical Activity Questionnaires (IPAQ). Non-parametric methods were used for comparisons between groups. The presence of a linear relationship was tested with the Spearman Correlation Test. A value of p Results A total of 571 participants, 372 males and 199 females, completed the study. Depression and anxiety symptoms were lower in athletes compared to non-athletes (p < 0.05). Depression, anxiety and stress symptoms were similar in team athletes and individual athletes (p = 0.232, p = 0.444, p = 0.116; respectively). The post-traumatic stress symptoms were lower in male team athletes than female team athletes (p = 0.020) and non-athletes (p < 0.001). Depression, anxiety and stress symptoms were found to be similar in men and women (p > 0.05). There was a negative correlation between physical activity level and mental health symptoms (p < 0.05). Conclusion The mental health status of athletes was better than non-athletes, and the positive effect of sport, which was done until the break due to the isolation period, on mental health continued. These findings show that physical activity may help to protect mental health.		[Senisik, Seckin; Koyagasioglu, Ogun] Ege Univ, Dept Sports Med, Fac Med, TR-35100 Izmir, Turkey; [Denerel, Nevzad] Yeni Malatyaspor Football Club, Dept Sports Med, Malatya, Turkey; [Tunc, Serhat] Kafkas Univ, Dept Psychiat, Fac Med, Kars, Turkey; [Koyagasioglu, Ogun] Ege Univ, Dept Sports Med, Fac Med, TR-35100 Izmir, Turkey								78							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000565633800001	38	Article; Article		
J	Couture, Grace A.; Simperingham, Kim D.; Cronin, John B.; Lorimer, Anna V.; Kilding, Andrew E.; Macadam, Paul								Effects of upper and lower body wearable resistance on spatio-temporal and kinetic parameters during running								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				19	5			633	651		10.1080/14763141.2018.1508490			SEP 2 2020	2020	Wearable resistance training involves added load attached directly to the body during sporting movements. The effects of load position during running are not yet fully established. Therefore, the purpose of this research was to determine spatio-temporal and kinetic characteristics during submaximal running using upper, lower and whole-body wearable resistance (1-10% body mass (BM)). Twelve trained male runners completed eight 2-min treadmill running bouts at 3.9 m/s with and without wearable resistance. The first and last bouts were unloaded, while the middle 6 were randomised wearable resistance conditions: upper body (UB) 5% BM, lower body (LB) 1%, 3%, 5% BM and whole body (WB) 5%, 10% BM. Wearable resistance of 1-10% BM resulted in a significant increase in heart rate (5.40-8.84%), but minimal impact on spatio-temporal variables. Loads of 5% BM and greater caused changes in vertical stiffness, vertical and horizontal force, and impulse. Functional and effective propulsive force (2.95%, 2.88%) and impulse (3.40%, 3.38%) were significantly(p < 0.05) greater with LB5% than UB5%. Wearable resistance may be used to increase muscular kinetics during running without negatively impacting spatio-temporal variables. The application of these findings will vary depending on athlete goals. Future longitudinal studies are required to validate training contentions.		[Couture, Grace A.; Simperingham, Kim D.; Cronin, John B.; Lorimer, Anna V.; Kilding, Andrew E.; Macadam, Paul] Auckland Univ Technol, Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand, Auckland, New Zealand; [Couture, Grace A.] Grand Valley State Univ, Dept Movement Sci, Allendale, MI 49401 USA; [Cronin, John B.] Edith Cowan Univ, Sch Exercise & Biomed Hlth Sci, Perth, WA, Australia; [Couture, Grace A.] Auckland Univ Technol, Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand, Auckland, New Zealand; [Couture, Grace A.] Grand Valley State Univ, Dept Movement Sci, Allendale, MI 49401 USA								12							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000564300200006	65	Article; Article		
J	Bailey, Ann; Funk, James; Lessley, David; Sherwood, Chris; Crandall, Jeff; Neale, William; Rose, Nathan								Validation of a videogrammetry technique for analysing American football helmet kinematics								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				19	5			678	700		10.1080/14763141.2018.1513059			SEP 2 2020	2020	Professional American football games are recorded in digital video with multiple cameras, often at high resolution and high frame rates. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the accuracy of a videogrammetry technique to calculate translational and rotational helmet velocity before, during and after a helmet impact. In total, 10 football impacts were staged in a National Football League (NFL) stadium by propelling helmeted 50th percentile male crash test dummies into each other or the ground at speeds and orientations representative of concussive impacts for NFL players. The tests were recorded by experienced sports film crews to obtain video coverage and quality typically available for NFL games. A videogrammetry procedure was used to track the position and rotation of the helmet throughout the relevant time interval of the head impact. Compared with rigidly mounted retroreflective marker three dimensional (3-D) motion tracking that was concurrently collected in the experiments, videogrammetry accurately calculated changes in translational and rotational velocity of the helmet using high frame rate (two cameras at 240 Hz) video (7% and 15% error, respectively). Low frame rate (2 cameras at 60 Hz) video was adequate for calculating pre-impact translational velocity but not for calculating the translational or rotational velocity change of the helmet during impact.		[Bailey, Ann; Funk, James; Lessley, David; Sherwood, Chris; Crandall, Jeff] Biomech Consulting & Res, Charlottesville, VA 22911 USA; [Neale, William; Rose, Nathan] Kineticorp, Greenwood Village, CO USA; [Bailey, Ann] Biomech Consulting & Res, Charlottesville, VA 22911 USA								25							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000564300200009	21	Article; Article		
J	Scarborough, Donna Moxley; Bassett, Ashley J.; Mayer, Lucas W.; Berkson, Eric M.								Kinematic sequence patterns in the overhead baseball pitch								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				19	5			569	586		10.1080/14763141.2018.1503321			SEP 2 2020	2020	Conceptually, an efficient baseball pitch demonstrates a proximal-to-distal transfer of segmental angular velocity. Such a timing pattern (or kinematic sequence) reduces stress on musculoskeletal structures of the throwing arm and maximises ball velocity. We evaluated the variability of kinematic sequences in 208 baseball pitches. 3D biomechanical pitch analyses were performed on 8-10 fastball pitches from 22 baseball pitchers (5 high school, 11 collegiate and 6 professional). The kinematic sequence patterns - time of peak angular velocity of five body segments: pelvis, trunk, arm, forearm and hand - were measured. None of the pitches analysed demonstrated an entirely proximal-to-distal kinematic sequence. Fourteen different kinematic sequence patterns were demonstrated, with the most prevalent sequence being pelvis -> trunk -> arm -> hand -> forearm. Fewer than 10% of the pitchers performed only one kinematic sequence pattern across the sampled pitches. The variability of the kinematic sequence was similar in high-school pitchers and professionals. Previous studies report that deviation from the proximal-to-distal kinematic sequence is associated with increased injury risk. As a method of evaluating the efficient transfer of energy to the hand, the kinematic sequence may provide insight to injury risk in the future. The ideal kinematic sequence and ideal variability of the sequence when throwing have yet to be determined.		[Scarborough, Donna Moxley; Mayer, Lucas W.; Berkson, Eric M.] Massachusetts Gen Hosp, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Boston, MA 02114 USA; [Scarborough, Donna Moxley] MGH Inst Hlth Profess, Sch Rehabil Sci, Charlestown, MA 02129 USA; [Bassett, Ashley J.] Harvard Univ, Harvard Combined Orthopaed Residency, Boston, MA 02115 USA; [Scarborough, Donna Moxley] Massachusetts Gen Hosp, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Boston, MA 02114 USA; [Scarborough, Donna Moxley] MGH Inst Hlth Profess, Sch Rehabil Sci, Charlestown, MA 02129 USA								34							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000564300200002	40	Article; Article		
J	Avedesian, Jason M.; Judge, Lawrence W.; Wang, Henry; Dickin, D. Clark								The biomechanical effect of warm-up stretching strategies on landing mechanics in female volleyball athletes								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				19	5			587	600		10.1080/14763141.2018.1503322			SEP 2 2020	2020	Female volleyball athletes incorporate dynamic and static stretching into a warm-up, with evidence generally supporting dynamic stretching to improve performance. However, the effects of these stretching practices on injury risk during subsequent volleyball manoeuvres have yet to be fully elucidated in the warm-up literature. Three-dimensional kinematic data associated with non-contact, lower extremity injury were recorded on 12 female collegiate club volleyball athletes during unilateral landing tasks on the dominant and non-dominant limb. Participants performed landings as part of a volleyball-simulated manoeuvre prior to and post-dynamic (DWU) and combined dynamic-static (CDS) warm-ups. A significant reduction in non-dominant hip adduction angle was found at 15 min post CDS warm-up (p = 0.016;d = 0.38), however, no other warm-up differences were detected. The non-dominant limb demonstrated greater knee abduction (p = 0.006;d = 0.69) and internal rotation angle (p = 0.004;d = 0.88), suggesting that this limb demonstrates more risky landing patterns that are potentially due to altered trunk positioning upon landing. The results show that the majority of selected landing kinematics are unaffected by additional static stretching to a dynamic warm-up and that the non-dominant limb may be at a higher injury risk in female volleyball athletes.		[Avedesian, Jason M.; Wang, Henry; Dickin, D. Clark] Ball State Univ, Biomech Lab, Coll Hlth, Muncie, IN 47306 USA; [Judge, Lawrence W.] Ball State Univ, Sch Kinesiol, Muncie, IN 47306 USA; [Dickin, D. Clark] Ball State Univ, Biomech Lab, Coll Hlth, Muncie, IN 47306 USA								14							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000564300200003	35	Article; Article		
J	Mallol, Milos; Norton, Lynda; Bentley, David J.; Mejuto, Gaizka; Norton, Kevin; Yanci, Javier								Physiological Response Differences between Run and Cycle High Intensity Interval Training Program in Recreational Middle Age Female Runners								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				19	3			508	516					SEP 2020	2020	The aim of this investigation was to compare the changes in endurance running performance and physiological variables after a four-week period of high intensity interval training (HIIT) in either running or cycling in female athletes. Fourteen recreational female runners (age = 42 +/- 10 yr, height = 1.67 +/- 0.06 m, body mass = 61.6 +/- 10.4 kg, body mass index (BMI) = 22.2 +/- 3.4 kg.m(2)) were randomly allocated to one of two MIT training groups: running (HIITrun) or cycling (HIITbike). Each group performed two MIT sessions per week for 4 weeks, which consisted of 6 x 2 min at 95% of maximal heart rate (HRmax) and 4 x 1 min all out efforts. Maximal oxygen consumption (VO2max) in treadmill running increased significantly after the HIITrun (p < 0.01, ES = 0.6) but remained unchanged in HIITbike. However, HIITbike improved average velocity in a 10 km running time trial (TTrun) (p < 0.05, ES = -0.4), whereas, no changes were found for the HIITrun group. Analysing the first and last HIIT sessions, for HIITrun only the average rate of perceived exertion (RPEav) increased significantly, whereas, performance variables such as average heart rate (HRav) and average pace (pace(av)) remained unchanged. HIITbike enhanced significantly the average speed of HIIT sets (speed(av)) and the peak power output (PPO) of the session, as well as, the RPEav and delayed onset muscle soreness immediately after MIT session (DOMSpost) were increased significantly. A regime of MIT in cycling may evoke increases in female recreational runners' power, which may be related with improvements in a 10 km TTrun independent of changes in aerobic capacity. This may be advantageous in order to avoid overuse running related injuries.		[Mallol, Milos; Norton, Lynda] Flinders Univ S Australia, Coll Nursing & Hlth Sci, Exercise Sci, South Bedford Pk, SA, Australia; [Mallol, Milos; Yanci, Javier] Univ Basque Country, UPV EHU, Fac Educ & Sport, Dept Phys Educ & Sports, Portal de Lasarte Kalea 71, Vitoria 01007, Spain; [Bentley, David J.] Univ Newcastle, Sch Environm & Life Sci, Fac Sci, Callaghan, NSW, Australia; [Mejuto, Gaizka] Univ Basque Country, Dept Body Express Didact, Leioa, Spain; [Norton, Kevin] Univ South Australia, Sch Hlth Sci, City East Campus, Adelaide, SA, Australia; [Yanci, Javier] Univ Basque Country, UPV EHU, Fac Educ & Sport, Dept Phys Educ & Sports, Portal de Lasarte Kalea 71, Vitoria 01007, Spain								12							Sport Sciences	WOS:000560560600008	52	Article; Article		
J	Chow, Daniel H. K.; Cheng, Wilson H. W.; Tam, Simone S. M.								A Video-Based Classification System for Assessing Locomotor Skills in Children								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				19	3			585	595					SEP 2020	2020	The Test of Gross Motor Development 2 (TGMD-2) is currently the standard approach for assessing fundamental movement skills (FMS), including locomotor and object control skills. However, its extensive application is restricted by its low efficiency and requirement of expert training for large-scale evaluations. This study evaluated the accuracy of a newly-developed video-based classification system (VCS) with a marker-less sensor to assess children's locomotor skills. A total of 203 typically-developing children aged three to eight years executed six locomotor skills, following the TGMD-2 guidelines. A Kinect v2 sensor was used to capture their activities, and videos were recorded for further evaluation by a trained rater. A series of computational-kinematic-based algorithms was developed for instant performance rating. The VCS exhibited moderate-to-very good levels of agreement with the rater, ranging from 66.1% to 87.5%, for each skill, and 72.4% for descriptive ratings. Paired t-test revealed that there were no significant differences, but significant positive correlation, between the standard scores determined by the two approaches. Tukey mean difference plot suggested there was no bias, with a mean difference (SD) of -0.16 (1.8) and respective 95% confidence interval of 3.5. The kappa agreement for the descriptive ratings between the two approaches was found to be moderate (k = 0.54, p < 0.01). Overall, the results suggest the VCS could potentially be an alternative to the conventional TGMD-2 assessment approach for assessing children's locomotor skills without the necessity of the presence of an experienced rater for the administration.		[Chow, Daniel H. K.] Educ Univ Hong Kong, Dept Hlth & Phys Educ, Hlth & Sports Sci, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [Cheng, Wilson H. W.; Tam, Simone S. M.] Educ Univ Hong Kong, Dept Hlth & Phys Educ, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [Chow, Daniel H. K.] Educ Univ Hong Kong, Dept Hlth & Phys Educ, Hong Kong, Peoples R China								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:000560560600017	37	Article; Article		
J	Ludwig, Oliver; Berger, Joshua; Schuh, Torsten; Backfisch, Marco; Becker, Stephan; Froehlich, Michael								Can A Superimposed Whole-Body Electromyostimulation Intervention Enhance the Effects of a 10-Week Athletic Strength Training in Youth Elite Soccer Players?								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				19	3			535	546					SEP 2020	2020	Strength training in youth soccer has both a preventive and a sports-specific component. Whole-body electromyostimulation (WB-EMS) could represent an interesting time-saving add-on to classical strength exercises in performance-oriented soccer. The objective of this study was to find out whether a 10-week superimposed WB-EMS training might have a more positive impact on strength parameters in male youth elite soccer players than regular athletic strength exercises alone. A total of 30 male youth soccer players from a youth academy aged 15 to 17 years participated in the study. Before and after the intervention, the isometric extension and flexion forces of trunk and knee, and the hip abduction and adduction forces were tested. Twelve players (control group) absolved a conventional 20-minute strength training once a week for a period of ten weeks. Eighteen players absolved the same exercises but with superimposed WB-EMS. Blood creatine kinase concentration was measured for training control. ANOVAs, Friedman tests and post hoc t-tests were calculated (p = 0.05) to examine the strength development during the training period between the groups. While we could not find significant strength increases in the leg, hip and trunk muscles in the control group (<4%), the strength of the WB-EMS group improved significantly in 4 of the 6 muscle groups tested. In this group, the strength of knee flexors increased significantly by 20.68 +/- 21.55%, knee extensors by 31.43 +/- 37.02%, hip adductors by 21.70 +/- 12.86% and trunk flexors by 33.72 +/- 27.43%. The rates of strength increase are partly in line with other studies, partly clearly higher, which might be explained by the athletically active target group. A 10-week superimposed WB-EMS training improves the strength of certain leg, hip and trunk muscles in male adolescent elite soccer players to a greater extent than a pure athletic strength training of the same duration.		[Ludwig, Oliver; Berger, Joshua; Backfisch, Marco; Becker, Stephan; Froehlich, Michael] Tech Univ Kaiserslautern, Dept Sports Sci, D-67663 Kaiserslautern, Germany; [Schuh, Torsten] Nachwuchsleistungszentrum Saar Youth Acad, SV 07 Elversberg, Elversberg, Germany; [Ludwig, Oliver] Tech Univ Kaiserslautern, Dept Sports Sci, D-67663 Kaiserslautern, Germany								21							Sport Sciences	WOS:000560560600012	61	Article; Article		
J	Koh, Hui Li Alvina; Lin, Wei-Hsiu; Kong, Pui Wah								Comfort and Ground Reaction Forces in Flat-Footed Female Runners: Comparison of Low-Dye Taping versus Sham Taping								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				19	3			620	626					SEP 2020	2020	The purpose of this study was to examine the effects of low-Dye tape on comfort and ground reaction forces (GRF) in flat-footed female runners. A randomized cross-over study was conducted on 15 flat-footed female recreational runners. Participants ran at three speeds (9, 10, 11 km/h) under two conditions: low-Dye and sham taping. Comfort level was assessed using a 150-mm visual analog scale. GRF data were collected using an instrumented treadmill. Stance time, peak forces, and loading rates were extracted. Low-Dye taping showed a lower comfort level (low-Dye, 63.8 (24.3) mm, sham 122.0 (16.0) mm, mean difference [95% confident intervals], -58.2 [68.2, 48.2] mm, p < 0.001). For all biomechanical variables, there was no interaction (taping condition x speed) effect or difference between taping conditions. As running speed increased, there was a decrease in stance time (p < 0.001) and increase in loading rate (p = 0.009), impact peak (p = 0.004), active peak (p < .001), breaking peak (p < 0.001), propulsive peak (p < 0.001), medial peak (p < 0.001), and lateral peak (p < 0.001). Compared with sham taping, application of low-Dye taping was less comfortable but did not alter running ground reaction forces among flat-footed female runners.		[Koh, Hui Li Alvina; Kong, Pui Wah] Nanyang Technol Univ, Natl Inst Educ, Phys Educ & Sports Sci Acad Grp, 1 Nanyang Walk, Singapore 637616, Singapore; [Lin, Wei-Hsiu] Natl Chiayi Univ, Dept Phys Educ Hlth & Recreat, Chiayi, Taiwan; [Kong, Pui Wah] Nanyang Technol Univ, Natl Inst Educ, Phys Educ & Sports Sci Acad Grp, 1 Nanyang Walk, Singapore 637616, Singapore								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:000560560600020	40	Article; Article		
J	Uzelac-Sciran, Tomislav; Sarabon, Nejc; Mikulic, Pavle								Effects of 8-Week Jump Training Program on Sprint and Jump Performance and Leg Strength in Pre- and Post-Peak Height Velocity Aged Boys								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				19	3			547	555					SEP 2020	2020	The purpose of this study was: (a) to determine the effects of an 8-week jump training program on measures of neuromuscular performance in 12-14-year-old boys before and after peak height velocity (PHV), and (b) to compare the effects of the jump training program to the effects of the regular physical education program. One hundred and twenty-six participants were categorized into two maturity groups (pre- or post-PHV) and then randomly assigned to either a jump training (pre-PHV, n = 26; post-PHV, n = 24) or a control (pre-PHV, n = 33; post-PHV, n = 19) group. Jump training consisted of twice-weekly training for 8 weeks, while control groups continued with their regular physical education lessons. Squat jump and countermovement jump height (cm), reactive strength index (the ratio between jump height and ground contact time (mm/ms)), 20-m sprint time (s), and isokinetic knee extensors muscle strength (peak toque (Nm)) were assessed pre- and post-intervention. Following the 8-week intervention, both pre- and post-PHV jump training groups made significant gains in measures of neuromuscular performance irrespective of the maturity (where p < 0.05, d = 0.28-1.00), while changes in these measures in the control groups were not significant (all p >= 0.05, d = -0.14-0.15). A series of repeated measures analyses of variance (ANOVA) indicated that (a) the maturity-related differences between jump training groups were observed only for reactive strength index, and (b) the improvements in all measures of neuromuscular performance were greater in jump training than in control group. This study demonstrated that important components of physical fitness in 12-14-year-old schoolboys may be acutely enhanced through a well-structured jump program and maturity seems to at least play a limited role in mediating these enhancements.		[Uzelac-Sciran, Tomislav; Mikulic, Pavle] Univ Zagreb, Fac Kinesiol, Horvacanski Zavoj 15, Zagreb 10000, Croatia; [Sarabon, Nejc] Univ Primorska, Fac Hlth Sci, Koper, Slovenia; [Sarabon, Nejc] Sci Practice Ltd, S2P, Lab Motor Control & Motor Behav, Ljubljana, Slovenia; [Mikulic, Pavle] Univ Zagreb, Fac Kinesiol, Horvacanski Zavoj 15, Zagreb 10000, Croatia								18							Sport Sciences	WOS:000560560600013	25	Article; Article		
J	He, Yuqi; Lv, Xiang; Zhou, Zhexiao; Sun, Dong; Baker, Julien S.; Gu, Yaodong								Comparing the Kinematic Characteristics of the Lower Limbs in Table Tennis: Differences between Diagonal and Straight Shots Using the Forehand Loop								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				19	3			522	528					SEP 2020	2020	The diagonal shot (DS) and straight shot (SS) using the forehand loop are the most common techniques used in table tennis. The purpose of this study was to investigate the kinematic differences of the lower limbs between DS and SS. Twelve male table tennis athletes performed DS and SS in random order. Kinematic data were captured using a three-dimensional Vicon motion analysis system. The major findings of this study were that DS showed significantly less time compared with SS during the backward swing (BS) and the forward swing (FS) phases. Meanwhile, DS showed significantly larger ankle internal rotation and inversion with smaller knee abduction and external rotation during the BS. DS showed significantly larger knee extension with smaller hip adduction and knee internal rotation compared with SS during the FS. However, SS showed a significantly larger range of motion (ROM) of ankle plantar flexion external rotation, and significantly larger ROM of knee extension. Moreover, SS showed significantly larger knee internal rotation compared with DS. These differences between the two shot techniques could be beneficial for helping coaches and table tennis athletes optimize performance, both in training and competition.		[He, Yuqi; Lv, Xiang; Zhou, Zhexiao; Sun, Dong; Gu, Yaodong] Ningbo Univ, Fac Sports Sci, Ningbo 315211, Zhejiang, Peoples R China; [Baker, Julien S.] Hong Kong Baptist Univ, Dept Sport & Phys Educ, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [Gu, Yaodong] Ningbo Univ, Fac Sports Sci, Ningbo 315211, Zhejiang, Peoples R China								17							Sport Sciences	WOS:000560560600010	25	Article; Article		
J	Niebauer, Josef; Mueller, Edith E.; Schoenfelder, Martin; Schwarzl, Christoph; Mayr, Barbara; Stoeggl, Julia; Stoeggl, Thomas								Acute Effects of Winter Sports and Indoor Cycling on Arterial Stiffness								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				19	3			460	468					SEP 2020	2020	Sedentary lifestyle predisposes to endothelial dysfunction, increased arterial stiffness and cardiovascular diseases, all of which can be positively modified by regular physical exercise training. A decrease in physical activity during winter months coincides with higher rates of cardiovascular events. In order to identify winter sports suitable to overcome this seasonal exercise deficit and thus contribute to cardiovascular health, it was the aim of this study to compare immediate effects of cross-country skiing (XCS) and alpine skiing (AS) on arterial stiffness as an alternative to indoor cycling (IC). After baseline assessment, eighteen healthy subjects performed one session of XCS, AS, and IC in randomized order. Pulse wave analysis was conducted (Mobil-oGraph (R)) before and 10-min after exercise. Parameters of arterial stiffness and wave reflection were reduced after XCS and IC, but not after AS: central systolic blood pressure (IC: -8.0 +/- 5.4 mmHg; p < 0.001), amplitude of the backward pressure wave (IC: -1.4 +/- 2.7 mmHg; p < 0.05), reflection coefficient (XCS: -6.0 +/- 7.8%; IC: -5.7 +/- 8.1%; both p < 0.1), and pulse wave velocity (IC by -0.19 +/- 0.27 m/s; p < 0.01). Higher exercise intensities correlated with greater reductions of arterial stiffness (all p < 0.05). Single sessions of XCS, IC but not AS led to comparable improvement in arterial stiffness, which was even more pronounced during higher exercise intensities. With regard to arterial stiffness, IC and XCS emerge as more effective to counteract the winter exercise deficit and thus the deleterious cardiovascular effects of a sedentary lifestyle.		[Niebauer, Josef; Mueller, Edith E.; Schoenfelder, Martin; Schwarzl, Christoph; Mayr, Barbara] Tech Univ Munich, Inst Sports Med Prevent & Rehabil, Munich, Germany; [Niebauer, Josef; Mueller, Edith E.; Schoenfelder, Martin; Schwarzl, Christoph; Mayr, Barbara] Tech Univ Munich, Res Inst Mol Sports Med & Rehabil, Munich, Germany; [Schoenfelder, Martin; Schwarzl, Christoph] Tech Univ Munich, Chair Exercise Biol, Munich, Germany; [Stoeggl, Julia; Stoeggl, Thomas] Univ Salzburg, Dept Sport & Exercise Sci, Salzburg, Austria; [Niebauer, Josef] Paracelsus Med Univ, Univ Inst Sports Med Prevent & Rehabil, Lindhofstr 20, A-5020 Salzburg, Austria								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:000560560600003	30	Article; Article		
J	Wilke, Jan; Vogel, Oliver								Computerized Cognitive Training with Minimal Motor Component Improves Lower Limb Choice-Reaction Time								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				19	3			529	534					SEP 2020	2020	The role of cognitive training in sports has experienced a recent surge in popularity. However, there is a paucity of longitudinal trials examining the effectiveness of related methods. This study aimed to investigate the impact of a cognitive training with minimal motor components on lower limb choice-reaction performance. A total of 44 healthy individuals (26.4 +/- 3.7 years, 27 males) were randomly allocated to a cognitive training (CT) or an inactive control group (CON). The CT group participants, three times per week, engaged in a computerized exercise program targeting skills such as attention, reaction time, processing speed or inhibition control. Before and after the 6-week intervention period, lower limb choice-reaction time was assessed using the Quick Feet Board device. An ANCOVA of the post-intervention values, controlling for baseline data, demonstrated superior unilateral choice-reaction performance (stance on dominant leg) in the CT group (p = 0.04, r = 0.31). Conversely, no difference was found for the bilateral component of the test (p > .05). Off-court cognitive training may represent a suitable method to enhance reactive motor skills in athletes.		[Wilke, Jan; Vogel, Oliver] Goethe Univ, Dept Sports Med & Exercise Physiol, Frankfurt, Germany; [Wilke, Jan; Vogel, Oliver] Goethe Univ Frankfurt, Dept Sports Med & Exercise Physiol, Inst Sport Sci, Frankfurt, Germany; [Wilke, Jan] Goethe Univ, Dept Sports Med, Girmheimer Landstr 39, D-60487 Frankfurt, Germany								14							Sport Sciences	WOS:000560560600011	31	Article; Article		
J	Rodriguez, Michael W.; Menhennett, Sarah A.; Vannatta, C. Nathan; Kernozek, Thomas W.								Relationship among maximum hip isometric strength, hip kinematics, and peak gluteal muscle force during running								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				45				188	196		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.06.009			SEP 2020	2020	Objective: To determine if there is a relationship among isometric hip strength, hip kinematics, and peak gluteal muscle forces in cross-country runners during running. Design: Cross Sectional. Setting: University Biomechanics Laboratory. Participants: Forty-six NCAA Division III collegiate cross-country runners (18 males, 28 females). Main outcome measures: Pearson correlation coefficients were used to describe relationships among isometric hip strength, hip kinematics, and peak gluteal muscle forces during the stance phase of running. Strength of correlations were interpreted as little to no relationship (r < 0.25), fair relationship (0.25 <= r < 0.5), moderate relationship (0.5 <= r < 0.75), and strong relationship (r >= 0.75). Correlations were considered significant if p < 0.05. Results: Little to no relationships were found among isometric hip strength and gluteal muscle forces during running (r < 0.25). A fair relationship was present between prone external rotation isometric hip strength and peak hip adduction (0.25 < r < 0.5). Little to no relationship was shown between gluteus medius force and hip internal rotation. Moderate relationships were present among peak gluteus medius and minimus muscle forces and peak hip adduction (0.5 < r < 0.75). Conclusion: Isometric hip strength does not appear to be related to gluteal muscle forces and hip kinematics during the stance phase of running while gluteal muscle force was moderately related to hip adduction. Factors other than strength may be related to muscle force production and hip kinematics during running. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Rodriguez, Michael W.; Menhennett, Sarah A.; Vannatta, C. Nathan] Gundersen Hlth Syst, Dept Sports Phys Therapy, 3111 Gundersen Dr, Onalaska, WI 54650 USA; [Rodriguez, Michael W.] Endurance Sports Phys Therapy & Performance, 4940 W 35th St, St Louis Pk, MN 55416 USA; [Menhennett, Sarah A.] Univ Montana, Phys Therapy Clin, 32 Campus Dr,129 Skaggs Bldg, Missoula, MT 59812 USA; [Vannatta, C. Nathan; Kernozek, Thomas W.] Univ Wisconsin, La Crosse Inst Movement Sci, 1300 Badger St, La Crosse, WI 54601 USA; [Kernozek, Thomas W.] Univ Wisconsin, Hlth Profess Dept, 1300 Badger St, La Crosse, WI 54601 USA; [Vannatta, C. Nathan] Gundersen Hlth Syst, Dept Sports Phys Therapy, 3111 Gundersen Dr, Onalaska, WI 54650 USA								10							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000572413200024	37	Article; Article		
J	Rush, Justin L.; Norte, Grant E.; Lepley, Adam S.								Limb differences in hamstring muscle function and morphology after anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				45				168	175		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.06.012			SEP 2020	2020	Objective: To compare inter-limb differences in hamstring strength, muscle volume, and neural activity between individuals with anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction (ACLR) and healthy controls, and to identify associations between hamstring neuromuscular function and subjective knee function. Design: Cross-sectional. Setting: Laboratory. Participants: Eleven participants with a history of ACLR (69.45 +/- 22.48 months from surgery) and eleven healthy matched controls. Main outcome measure(s): Hamstring isokinetic torque at 60 and 240 degrees.s(-1), muscle volume, and medial and lateral hamstring electromyographic (EMG) activity during a single leg hop task were all evaluated during one study visit. Percent limb-differences (%LD) were calculated between each outcome measure; greater inter-limb differences indicated greater asymmetries between limbs. The International Knee Documentation Committee (IKDC) scores were used to determine associations between subjective knee function and each outcome measure. Results: Individuals with ACLR had large magnitude inter-limb differences in medial hamstring EMG (p = .04; d = 0.94), biceps femoris short head volume (p = .02; d = 1.07) and semitendinosus (p = .03; d = 1.07) volume. Lower semimembranosus volume was associated with lower IKDC scores (r = 0.754; p = .012). Conclusions: We observed greater inter-limb differences in medial hamstring EMG, and semitendinosus and long head of the biceps femoris volume, which may negatively influence knee function years after ACLR. Published by Elsevier Ltd.		[Rush, Justin L.; Norte, Grant E.] Univ Toledo, Sch Exercise & Rehabil Sci, Exercise Sci Program, 2801 W Bancroft St, Toledo, OH 43606 USA; [Lepley, Adam S.] Univ Michigan, Sch Kinesiol, Ann Arbor, MI 48109 USA; [Lepley, Adam S.] Univ Michigan, Michigan Performance Res Lab, Ann Arbor, MI 48109 USA; [Rush, Justin L.] Univ Toledo, Sch Exercise & Rehabil Sci, Exercise Sci Program, 2801 W Bancroft St, Toledo, OH 43606 USA								14							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000572413200021	38	Article; Article		
J	Lawrenson, Peter R.; Vicenzino, Bill T.; Hodges, Paul W.; Crossley, Kay M.; Heerey, Joshua J.; Semciw, Adam, I								Pericapsular hip muscle activity in people with and without femoroacetabular impingement. A comparison in dynamic tasks								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				45				135	144		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.06.004			SEP 2020	2020	Objectives: Compare anterior pericapsular muscle activity between individuals with and without femoroacetabular impingement syndrome (FAIS) during dynamic tasks, to investigate whether muscle activity is consistent with a role in retracting the capsule to prevent impingement and active restraint of the femoral head in walking. Design: Cross-sectional. Setting: University-laboratory. Participants: Thirteen athletes with FAIS and 13 pain-free controls. Main outcome measures: Muscle activity was recorded using fine-wire (Iliocapsularis, iliacus and anterior gluteus minimus) and surface (rectus femoris) electromyography (EMG), during three hip flexion tasks (active and assisted hip flexion; squatting) and four walking trials. Results: Iliocapsularis EMG amplitude was no different between active and assisted hip flexion tasks around 90 degrees of hip flexion in FAIS. There was no difference in EMG between groups in squatting. The pattern of burst activity preceding peak hip extension in iliacus, iliocapsularis, and anterior gluteus minimus was similar in both groups during walking. Conclusion: In FAIS, similar activation of iliocapsularis during active and assisted hip flexion, despite reduced flexion torque demand in the latter, suggests a role in capsular retraction or enhanced hip joint protection. Pericapsular muscle activity in advance of peak hip extension during walking is consistent with a proposed contribution to femoral head control. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Lawrenson, Peter R.; Vicenzino, Bill T.; Hodges, Paul W.; Crossley, Kay M.; Semciw, Adam, I] Univ Queensland, Sch Hlth & Rehabil Sci, Brisbane, Qld 4072, Australia; [Crossley, Kay M.; Heerey, Joshua J.; Semciw, Adam, I] La Trobe Univ, Coll Sci Hlth & Engn, La Trobe Sport & Exercise Med Res Ctr LASEM, Sch Allied Hlth, Melbourne, Vic 3086, Australia; [Lawrenson, Peter R.] Univ Queensland, Sch Hlth & Rehabil Sci, Brisbane, Qld 4072, Australia								11							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000572413200017	42	Article; Article		
J	Friede, Miriam C.; Klauser, Andrea; Fink, Christian; Csapo, Robert								Stiffness of the iliotibial band and associated muscles in runner's knee: Assessing the effects of physiotherapy through ultrasound shear wave elastography								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				45				126	134		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.06.015			SEP 2020	2020	Objectives: To test the hypothesis that Iliotibial Band Syndrome (ITBS) is caused by excessive iliotibial band (ITB) tension, promoted by hip abductor and external rotator weakness, and evaluate the influence of 6 weeks of physiotherapy on ITB stiffness. Design: Interventional study with control group. Setting: Clinical. Participants: 14 recreational runners with ITBS and 14 healthy controls of both sexes. Main outcome measures: Ultrasound shear wave elastography, hip muscle strength, visual analog scale pain, subjective lower extremity function. Results: No statistical differences in ITB tension between legs as well as between patients suffering from ITBS and healthy controls were detected. Results showed significant strength deficits in hip abduction, adduction as well as external and internal rotation. Following six weeks of physiotherapy, hip muscle strength (all directions but abduction), pain and lower extremity function were significantly improved. ITB stiffness, however, was found to be increased compared to baseline measurements. Conclusion: Shear wave elastography data suggest that ITB tension is not increased in the affected legs of runners with ITBS compared to the healthy leg or a physical active control group, respectively. Current approaches to the conservative management of ITBS appear ineffective in lowering ITB tone. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Friede, Miriam C.] Carinthia Univ Appl Sci, Dept Physiotherapy, Klagenfurt, Austria; [Klauser, Andrea] Med Univ Innsbruck, Dept Radiol, Innsbruck, Austria; [Fink, Christian] Gelenkpunkt Sports & Joint Surg, Innsbruck, Austria; [Fink, Christian; Csapo, Robert] Private Univ Hlth Sci, Res Unit Orthopaed Sports Med & Injury Prevent, ISAG, Med Informat & Technol, Hall In Tirol, Austria; [Friede, Miriam C.] Carinthia Univ Appl Sci, Sch Hlth & Social Sci, Dept Physiotherapy, St Veiter Str 47, A-9020 Klagenfurt, Austria								23							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000572413200016	64	Article; Article		
J	Ferreira, Victor M. L. M.; Oliveira, Rodrigo R.; Nazareno, Thamiris S.; Freitas, Lucas, V; Mendonca, Luciana D.								Interaction of foot and hip factors identifies Achilles tendinopathy occurrence in recreational runners								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				45				111	119		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.06.006			SEP 2020	2020	Objectives: To investigate the interaction of ankle-foot complex and hip joint factors with Achilles Tendinopathy (AT) occurrence in recreational runners. Design: Cross-sectional. Setting: Research Laboratory. Participants: 51 runners, 26 healthy and 25 with AT. Main outcomes measures: Shank-forefoot alignment (SFA), weight bearing lunge test (WBLT), passive hip internal rotation (IR) range of motion (ROM), hip external rotators (ER) and ankle plantar flexors (PF) isometric strength. CART analyses were performed to assess interactions that could distinguish those with AT. Results: Passive hip IR ROM, ankle PF torque, SFA, and hip ER isometric torque were associated AT occurrence. The model correctly classified 92% of individuals without AT and 72% of those with AT. The area under the receiver operating characteristic curve was 0.88. Interaction factors revealed in nodes 3 and 10 were statistically significant. In node 3, runners with more than 29.33 degrees of passive hip IR ROM had a 130% increased likelihood (PR = 2.30) of AT. Node 10 showed that individuals with higher PF torque, SFA varus, ER torque, but reduced passive hip IR ROM had an 87% increased likelihood (PR = 1.87) of AT. Conclusion: Interactions between hip and foot factors could accurately classify recreational runners with and without AT. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Ferreira, Victor M. L. M.; Mendonca, Luciana D.] Univ Fed Vales do Jetiquinhonha & Mucuri, Postgrad Program Rehabil & Funct Performance, Rodovia MGT 367,Km 583,5000 Alto da Jacuba, BR-39100000 Diamantina, MG, Brazil; [Oliveira, Rodrigo R.; Nazareno, Thamiris S.; Freitas, Lucas, V] Univ Fed Ceara, Phys Therapy Dept, Rua Major Weyne 1440, BR-60430160 Fortaleza, Ceara, Brazil; [Mendonca, Luciana D.] Univ Fed Vales do Jetiquinhonha & Mucuri, Sch Biol & Hlth Sci, Phys Therapy Dept, Rodovia MGT 367,Km 584,5000 Alto da Jacuba, BR-39100000 Diamantina, MG, Brazil; [Mendonca, Luciana D.] Univ Fed Vales do Jetiquinhonha & Mucuri, Sch Biol & Hlth Sci, Phys Therapy Dept, Rodovia MGT 367,Km 584,5000 Alto da Jacuba, BR-39100000 Diamantina, MG, Brazil								19							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000572413200014	62	Article; Article		
J	Rogowski, Isabelle; Degot, Matthieu; Jure, Dimitri; Hager, Jean-Philippe; Neyton, Lionel; Blache, Yoann								Shoulder functional status in rugby union players with and without history of shoulder problems								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				45				71	75		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.06.014			SEP 2020	2020	Objectives: To assess the effects of (1) rugby union practice, (2) history of injury managed nonoperatively, and (3) history of injury managed operatively on shoulder functional status in male rugby union players. Design: Cross sectional study. Setting: Clinical. Participants: 86 male athletes were assigned into four groups: multisport athletes, rugby union players without shoulder problems, with history of shoulder injury managed nonoperatively and with history of shoulder injury managed operatively. Main outcome measures: SI-RSI questionnaire, maximal isometric glenohumeral internal and external rotator strength, unilateral seated shot put test, upper quarter Y balance test. Results: Healthy players presented higher internal (p = 0.03) and external (p = 0.04) rotator strength than multisport athletes. History of shoulder injury managed nonoperatively did not impair physical abilities but limited player's psychological readiness (p < 0.001). After 4.5-months, shoulder stabilization surgery impaired maximal muscle strength and upper quarter body stability and mobility (p < 0.001 for all). Conclusions: The shoulder functional status in rugby union player presented increased glenohumeral rotator strength when compared to non-collision sport athletes. In rugby union players, psychological concerns remained in the long-term after a shoulder injury managed nonoperatively, and psychological and physical readiness seemed not be reached at 4.5 months postoperatively to respond to rugby union practice demand. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Rogowski, Isabelle; Degot, Matthieu; Jure, Dimitri; Blache, Yoann] Univ Lyon, Lab Interuniv Biol Motricite, Univ Lyon 1, UFRSTAPS,EA 7424, 27-29 Blvd 11 Novembre 1918, F-69622 Villeurbanne, France; [Jure, Dimitri] Athlet France, 4 Rue Jean Sarrazin, F-69008 Lyon, France; [Hager, Jean-Philippe; Neyton, Lionel] FIFA Med Ctr Excellence, Ctr Orthoped Santy, 24 Ave Paul Santy, F-69008 Lyon, France; [Neyton, Lionel] Ramsay Gen Sante, Hop Prive Jean Mermoz, 55 Ave Jean Mermoz, F-69008 Lyon, France; [Rogowski, Isabelle] Univ Claude Bernard Lyon 1, 27 Blvd 11 Novembre 1918, F-69622 Villeurbanne, France								10							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000572413200009	28	Article; Article		
J	Ortega, Santiago L.; Ibarra, Sergio; Pierce, Rebecca; Levy, Susan; Gombatto, Sara P.								Kinematic and kinetic factors associated with leg reach asymmetry during the Star Excursion Balance Test in division I athletes								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				45				63	70		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.05.012			SEP 2020	2020	Objectives: To explore which balance and movement factors contribute most to reach distance asymmetry during the Star Excursion Balance Test (SEBT) in Division I athletes. Design: Cross-Sectional Study. Setting: Rehabilitation Biomechanics Laboratory, NCAA Division I Athletics Program. Participants: 36 Division I athletes (20 Male; 16 Female). Main outcome measures: Center of Pressure, Kinematic and Kinetic variables were measured during performance of anterior, Posterior-Medial (PM), and Posterior-Lateral (PL) directions of the SEBT in order to determine which factors predict reach distance asymmetry. Results: COP variables approached significance in predicting asymmetry for the anterior direction (p <0.08), kinematic variables approached significance in predicting asymmetry in the PL direction (p < 0.06), and kinetic variables were significant in predicting asymmetry in the PM direction (p < 0.03). Conclusions: Findings suggest that different strategies could be used to improve leg reach asymmetry based on specific direction of the asymmetry. Improving ability to control COP area seems to be important for the anterior direction, while control of limb movement seems to be most important for leg reach asymmetry in the PM and PL directions. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Ortega, Santiago L.; Gombatto, Sara P.] San Diego State Univ, Phys Therapy Program, 5500 Campanile Dr, San Diego, CA 92182 USA; [Ibarra, Sergio] San Diego State Univ, Athlet Dept, 5500 Campanile Dr, San Diego, CA 92182 USA; [Ortega, Santiago L.; Pierce, Rebecca; Levy, Susan; Gombatto, Sara P.] San Diego State Univ, Sch Exercise & Nutr Sci, 5500 Campanile Dr, San Diego, CA 92182 USA; [Gombatto, Sara P.] San Diego State Univ, Sch Exercise & Nutr Sci, Phys Therapy Program, 5500 Campanile Dr, San Diego, CA 92182 USA								3							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000572413200008	30	Article; Article		
J	Ellenberger, Lynn; Jermann, Julia; Froehlich, Stefan; Frey, Walter O.; Snedeker, Jess G.; Spoerri, Joerg								Biomechanical quantification of deadbug bridging performance in competitive alpine skiers: Reliability, reference values, and associations with skiing performance and back overuse complaints								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				45				56	62		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.05.013			SEP 2020	2020	Objectives: (1) To study the reliability of quantifying rear-chain stabilization capacity during deadbug bridging (DBB), (2) to provide reference values for competitive alpine skiers, and (3) to study associations with age, anthropometrics, maturation, skiing performance and back overuse complaints. Design: Cross-sectional. Setting: Biomechanical field experiment including questionnaires. Participants: 12 healthy subjects (reliability experiment); 133 skiers of the U16 category and 38 of the elite category (main experiment). Main outcome measures: DBB performance was quantified using 3D motion capture as the maximum amplitude of the relative vertical displacement of two pelvis markers (DBBdisplacement). Additionally, in U16 skiers, age, anthropometrics, maturation, skiing performance, and back overuse complaints were assessed. Results: The reliability experiment revealed an ICC(3,1) and 95% CI of 0.81 [0.61, 0.93]. Within-subject SEM was 3.89 mm [3.16 mm, 5.12 mm]. Depending on sex and category, medians of DBBdisplacement in skiers ranged between 29 mm and 45 mm. DBBdisplacement differed between elite and U16 skiers (p < 0.001), but not between sexes. In U16 skiers, DBBdisplacement was independent of age, anthropometrics, and biological maturation, however, associated with skiing performance and back overuse complaints (p < 0.05). Conclusion: The proposed approach may be considered an adequate method to quantify athletes' rear-chain stabilization capacity. (C) 2020 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd.		[Ellenberger, Lynn; Jermann, Julia; Froehlich, Stefan; Frey, Walter O.; Spoerri, Joerg] Univ Zurich, Balgrist Univ Hosp, Dept Orthopaed, Sports Med Res Grp, Zurich, Switzerland; [Ellenberger, Lynn; Jermann, Julia; Froehlich, Stefan; Frey, Walter O.; Spoerri, Joerg] Univ Zurich, Balgrist Univ Hosp, Univ Ctr Prevent & Sports Med, Dept Orthopaed, Zurich, Switzerland; [Snedeker, Jess G.] Univ Zurich, Balgrist Univ Hosp, Dept Orthopaed, Biomech Lab, Zurich, Switzerland; [Snedeker, Jess G.] Swiss Fed Inst Technol, Inst Biomech, Zurich, Switzerland; [Spoerri, Joerg] Balgrist Campus,Lengghalde 5, CH-8008 Zurich, Switzerland								13							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000572413200007	31	Article; Article		
J	Jones, Denise M.; Kemp, Joanne L.; Crossley, Kay M.; Hart, Harvi F.; Ackerman, Ilana N.								Mismatch between expectations and physical activity outcomes at six months following hip-arthroscopy: A qualitative study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				45				14	22		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.05.006			SEP 2020	2020	Objective: To explore factors influencing participation in physical activity for young to middle-aged patients at six months post-hip arthroscopy. Design: Qualitative study. Setting: Three specialist surgical centres in Australia. Participants: Seventeen adults aged 18-50 years. Main outcome measures: Individual semi-structured interviews were undertaken and transcribed verbatum. Inductive analysis of the data was undertaken, with themes identified through an iterative coding process. Results: Four key themes emerged from the analysis: 1) an evident mismatch between expectations and actual progress of physical activity during the first six months post-arthroscopy; 2) physical activity levels vary widely at six months post-operatively; 3) evidence of suboptimal psychological readiness to return to sport and an associated emotional toll; and 4) the influence of available support and information on post-operative physical activity. Conclusions: This qualitative study has provided in-depth perspectives on recovery after hip arthroscopy. Clear opportunities exist to: 1) help patients develop realistic post-operative goals; 2) provide timely patient education and support; and 3) facilitate an effective transition to desired physical activity. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Jones, Denise M.; Kemp, Joanne L.; Crossley, Kay M.; Hart, Harvi F.] La Trobe Univ, Sch Allied Hlth, Coll Sci Hlth & Engn, La Trobe Sport & Exercise Med Res Ctr, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Hart, Harvi F.] Western Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, London, ON, Canada; [Ackerman, Ilana N.] Monash Univ, Sch Publ Hlth & Prevent Med, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Jones, Denise M.] La Trobe Univ, Coll Sci, La Trobe Sport & Exercise Med Res Ctr LASEM, Sch Allied Hlth, Melbourne, Vic 3086, Australia								7							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000572413200003	40	Article; Article		
J	Kitaguchi, Takuya; Tanaka, Yoshinari; Takeshita, Shinya; Akizaki, Koji; Takao, Rikio; Kinugasa, Kazutaka; Tachibana, Yuta; Natsuume, Takashi; Horibe, Shuji								Preoperative quadriceps strength as a predictor of return to sports after anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction in competitive athletes								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				45				7	13		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.06.001			SEP 2020	2020	Objectives: To determine whether preoperative quadriceps strength predicts the likelihood of return to sports (RTS) following anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction (ACLR) in competitive athletes. Design: Case-control study. Setting: Single-center. Participants: A total of 221 competitive athletes who underwent primary ACLR were followed and divided into RTS (n = 177) and non-RTS (n = 44) groups based on self-reported sports activities at one year postoperatively. Main outcome measures: Isokinetic quadriceps strength tests were performed preoperatively and at six months and one year postoperatively, and the quadriceps index (QI) was calculated. Functional performance was evaluated by the single-leg hop (SLH) test at six months postoperatively. Results: Preoperative QI significantly predicted the likelihood of RTS (odds ratio, 1.68 per 10-unit increase; P < 0.001), with a preoperative QI cut-off of 66% (AUC: 0.74; sensitivity: 68.9%; specificity: 77.3%). Subjects with a preoperative QI < 66% had a significantly lower postoperative QI, SLH, and rates of RTS compared to those with a higher preoperative QI (P < 0.01). Conclusions: Preoperative quadriceps strength could predict the likelihood of RTS following ACLR, and a preoperative QI < 66% was associated with a greater risk of unsuccessful RTS at one year postoperatively. Preoperative QI should be evaluated as a predictor of RTS. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Kitaguchi, Takuya; Takeshita, Shinya; Akizaki, Koji; Natsuume, Takashi] Osaka Rosai Hosp, Dept Rehabil, Kita Ku, 1179-3 Nagasone Cho, Sakai, Osaka 5918025, Japan; [Tanaka, Yoshinari; Kinugasa, Kazutaka; Tachibana, Yuta] Osaka Rosai Hosp, Dept Sports Orthopaed, Kita Ku, 1179-3 Nagasone Cho, Sakai, Osaka 5918025, Japan; [Takao, Rikio; Horibe, Shuji] Osaka Prefecture Univ, Fac Comprehens Rehabil, 3-7-30 Habikino, Habikino, Osaka 5838555, Japan; [Kitaguchi, Takuya] Osaka Rosai Hosp, Dept Rehabil, Kita Ku, 1179-3 Nagasone Cho, Sakai, Osaka 5918025, Japan								16							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000572413200002	36	Article; Article		
J	Therriault, Taylor; Rospert, Alexander; Selhorst, Mitchell; Fischer, Anastasia								Development of a preliminary multivariable diagnostic prediction model for identifying active spondylolysis in young athletes with low back pain								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				45				1	6		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.05.009			SEP 2020	2020	Aims: The primary aim of this study was to develop a diagnostic cluster of common clinical findings that would assist in ruling out an active spondylolysis in adolescent athletes with low back pain (LBP). Design: Retrospective case-series. Setting: Hospital-based sports medicine clinic. Patients: One thousand and twenty-five adolescent athletes with LBP (age 15.0 +/- 1.8 years, 56% female) were reviewed. Active spondylolytic injuries were identified in 22% (n = 228) of these patients. Main outcome measure: presence or absence of active spondylolysis on advanced imaging. Results: Through logistic regression analysis, pain with extension (p < 0.001), difference between active and resting pain >= 3/10 (p < 0.001), and male sex (p = 0.002) were identified as significantly associated with active spondylolysis. The clinical cluster had a sensitivity of 88% (95% CI 83%-93%) to help rule out active spondylolysis. The negative likelihood ratio was 0.34 (95% CI 0.23-0.51) and the negative predictive value was 90% (95% CI 86%-93%). Diagnostic accuracy of the cluster was acceptable (area under the curve = 0.72 (95% CI 0.69, 0.76; p < 0.001). Conclusion: This study found a cluster of three patient characteristics that may assist in ruling out active spondylolysis in adolescent athletes with LBP. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Therriault, Taylor; Rospert, Alexander; Selhorst, Mitchell] Nationwide Childrens Hosp, Sports & Orthoped Phys Therapy, Columbus, OH USA; [Fischer, Anastasia] Nationwide Childrens Hosp, Div Sports Med, Columbus, OH USA; [Selhorst, Mitchell] 6499 East Broad St Suite 140, Columbus, OH 43213 USA								6							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000572413200001	30	Article; Article		
J	Mazurek, Caitlin M.; Pearsall, David J.; Renaud, Philippe J.; Robbins, Shawn M.								Differences in inter-segment coordination between high- and low-calibre ice hockey players during forward skating								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				22	10			1303	1318		10.1080/14763141.2020.1797151			OCT 3 2023	2023	The objective was to compare lower extremity inter-segment coordination between high-calibre and low-calibre ice hockey players during forward full stride skating. A 10-camera Vicon motion capture system collected kinematic data on male high-calibre (n = 8) and low-calibre (n = 8) participants. Continuous relative phase (CRP) was calculated for shank-sagittal/thigh-sagittal, shank-sagittal/thigh-frontaland foot-sagittal/shank-sagittalsegment pairs. Principal component analysis (PCA) was used to extract features of greatest variability of the CRP and hierarchical linear model investigated relationships between principal components and skill level. High-calibre players demonstrated more out-of-phase coordination (higher CRP) of shank-sagittal/thigh-sagittalthroughout glide/push-off (p = 0.011) as well as a delay in the transition to more in-phase coordination during early recovery phase (p = 0.014). For shank-sagittal/thigh-frontal(p = 0.013), high-calibre players had more out-of-phase coordination throughout the entire stride. High-calibre players were also associated with an earlier transition to more out-of-phase coordination of the foot-sagittal/shank-sagittalduring push-off (p = 0.007) and a smaller difference in CRP between mid-glide/early recovery (p = 0.016). Utilising more out-of-phase modes of coordination may allow players to more easily adjust to optimal modes of coordination throughout skating strides. Skating drills incorporating varying speed, directionality and external stimuli may encourage the development of more optimal coordination during skating.		[Mazurek, Caitlin M.; Pearsall, David J.; Renaud, Philippe J.] McGill Univ, McGill Res Ctr Phys Act & Hlth, Dept Kinesiol & Phys Educ, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Robbins, Shawn M.] Lethbridge Layton Mackay Rehabil Ctr, Ctr Interdisciplinary Res Rehabil, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Robbins, Shawn M.] McGill Univ, Sch Phys & Occupat Therapy, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Mazurek, Caitlin M.] McGill Univ, McGill Res Ctr Phys Act & Hlth, Dept Kinesiol & Phys Educ, Montreal, PQ, Canada								5							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000564083200001	28	Article; Article		
J	Horn, Robert R.; Marchetto, Jonathan D.								Approximate Target Pre-Cueing Reduces Programming Quiet Eye and Movement Preparation Time: Evidence for Parameter Pre-Programming?								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				92	4			787	795		10.1080/02701367.2020.1782813			OCT 2 2021	2021	Purpose: We examined the effect of target pre-cues on quiet eye duration (QED). If quiet eye (QE) represents the initial and only period for the programming of movement parameters, then the precision of target pre-cues should not affect QED. In contrast, shorter QED after pre-cueing of targets implies some initial programming process to have occurred before QE.Method: Sixteen participants threw darts at targets projected onto a soft screen. We manipulated the precision of target pre-cues by highlighting an area within which the target would appear. These pre-cued areas were either the full screen (i.e., no cue), any half, quarter, or sixteenth of the screen. Participants threw eight times in each condition. Dependent measures included QED (programming and online segments), movement preparation time (MPT; from target presentation to initiation of movement), and radial error (cm).Results: Analysis revealed that programming QE was shorter when the target was pre-cued in the most precise sixteenth condition, compared to the no cue condition. Also, MPT was shorter when pre-cued in the sixteenth condition than in either the no cue or half screen conditions. Target pre-cueing conditions did not affect the other dependent variables.Conclusions: Shorter PQE following the most precise target pre-cueing implies that some pre-programming occurred before QE, perhaps through inhibition, but only when the pre-cue was specific enough to make pre-programming possible.		[Horn, Robert R.] Montclair State Univ, Montclair, NJ USA; [Marchetto, Jonathan D.] Temple Univ, Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA; [Horn, Robert R.] Montclair State Univ, Dept Exercise Sci & Phys Educ, Montclair, NJ 07043 USA								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000564150000001	34	Article; Article		
J	De Backer, Maarten; Boen, Filip; Van Puyenbroeck, Stef; Reynders, Bart; Van Meervelt, Koen; Vande Broek, Gert								Should team coaches care about justice? Perceived justice mediates the relation between coaches' autonomy support and athletes' satisfaction and self-rated progression								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	1			27	43	1747954120952571	10.1177/1747954120952571			FEB 2021	2021	In contrast to the many studies in the business setting, few sport scientists have studied the predictors of athletes' perception of justice. The present research aimed to determine the role of the interpersonal style of coaches (autonomy support) in enhancing perceived justice and its impact on satisfaction and performance. More precisely, two independent studies examined whether perceived justice mediated the relation between autonomy support on the one hand and athletes' satisfaction and their self-rated progression on the other hand. In Study 1, female team dancers (N = 145) completed questionnaires assessing autonomy support, justice, and satisfaction. In Study 2, male handball players (N = 102) completed the same questionnaire extended with self-rated progression. Structural equation modeling revealed a positive link between athletes' perceived autonomy support of the coach and perceived justice. Subsequently, procedural-interactional justice predicted higher levels of satisfaction and self-rated progression, while a significant indirect effect was found from autonomy support to satisfaction. Measurement and path invariance tests showed that the measurement scales and structural models were invariant across both samples. These findings signify the importance of autonomy support and perceived justice to optimize team athletes' satisfaction and consequently their progression.		[De Backer, Maarten; Boen, Filip; Van Puyenbroeck, Stef; Reynders, Bart; Van Meervelt, Koen; Vande Broek, Gert] Fac Movement & Rehabil Sci, Dept Movement Sci, Tervuursevest 101, B-3001 Leuven, Belgium; [De Backer, Maarten] Fac Movement & Rehabil Sci, Dept Movement Sci, Tervuursevest 101, B-3001 Leuven, Belgium								13							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000568124400001	62	Article; Article		
J	McKay, Brad; Ste-Marie, Diane M.								Autonomy Support via Instructionally Irrelevant Choice Not Beneficial for Motor Performance or Learning								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				93	1			64	76		10.1080/02701367.2020.1795056			JAN 2 2022	2022	Purpose: The Optimizing Performance Through Motivation and Attention for Learning (OPTIMAL) theory predicts that providing learners with choices during skill acquisition will enhance their acquisition performance, motor learning, and expectancies. Based on this theory, it is recommended that instructors ask learners to choose which tasks to practice in applied settings. This experiment tested these predictions and recommendation by crossing autonomy support with practice schedule in a 2 x 2 factorial design.Method: Participants (N= 128) practiced a novel non-dominant hand dart-throwing task either with choice over the color of the dart flights (autonomy) or yoked to a counterpart's choices (yoked). Further, participants either practiced throwing darts to three different targets in equal amounts (variable) or throwing to the same target for all practice trials (constant). All participants completed a pretest, acquisition phase, 24-hr delayed retention and transfer tests, as well as baseline and post-acquisition autonomy, and self-efficacy measures. Data were analyzed according to a pre-registered analysis plan that included pretest and gender as covariates.Results: The autonomy groups reported significantly greater perceived autonomy at the end of acquisition. There were no significant effects of autonomy on self-efficacy, or motor performance uniquely during acquisition, or uniquely on the delayed transfer test. The autonomy groups, however, performed with significantly greater error across acquisition and transfer. Practice schedule interacted with the time of testing such that the constant groups performed significantly more accurately during acquisition but non-significantly less accurately during transfer than the variable groups.Conclusions: These results are inconsistent with OPTIMAL theory.		[McKay, Brad; Ste-Marie, Diane M.] Univ Ottawa, Ottawa, ON, Canada; [McKay, Brad] Univ Ottawa, Sch Human Kinet, Fac Hlth Sci, Ottawa, ON K1N 6N5, Canada								21							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000563414900001	41	Article; Article		
J	Kayacan, Yildirim; Makaraci, Yucel; Ozgocer, Tuba; Ucar, Cihat; Yildiz, Sedat								Cortisol Awakening Response and Heart Rate Variability in the Menstrual Cycle of Sportswomen								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				92	4			760	769		10.1080/02701367.2020.1774486			OCT 2 2021	2021	Purpose: This study aimed to examine the activities of heart rate variability (HRV) and cortisol secretion as markers of the autonomous nervous system (ANS) and the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis (HPA) during the menstrual cycle in female athletes.Method: Saliva samples of the participants (n = 28) were collected successively at 0, 15, 30, and 60 min after awakening to assess cortisol awakening response (CAR) during each of four phases of the menstrual cycle (the menstruation, ovulation, luteal, and premenstrual phases). Diurnal saliva samples were collected at noon, in the evening (17:00) and 22:00 for cortisol analysis. HRV was measured in the menstrual and premenstrual phases at rest (12:00-14:00).Results: There was no difference betweenCARparameters in the menstrual phases.CARparameters and diurnal cortisol levels were significantly correlated with each other throughout the menstrual cycle. Mean cortisol was a strong predictor of the area under the curve (AUC: S = 0.042; R-Sq = 98.4%). Time-dependent parameters of HRV (standard deviation of the N-N interval [SDNN;P= .049] and the root mean square of the successive R-R differences [rMSSD;P= .038]) were significantly higher in the menstrual phase. There were no correlations betweenCARand HRV parameters.Conclusions: We suggest that the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis activity and the autonomic nervous system work in a separate manner that is not affected by the menstrual phases in sportswomen. The present study contributed to a better understanding of the relationship between the dynamics of cortisol release and the autonomic nervous system in different phases of the menstrual cycle in female athletes.		[Kayacan, Yildirim; Makaraci, Yucel] Ondokuz Mayis Univ, Samsun, Turkey; [Ozgocer, Tuba] Harran Univ, Sanliurfa, Turkey; [Ucar, Cihat] Adiyaman Univ, Adiyaman, Turkey; [Yildiz, Sedat] Inonu Univ, Malatya, Turkey; [Kayacan, Yildirim] Ondokuz Mayis Univ, Yasar Dogu Fac Sports Sci, 19 Mayis Unv, TR-55270 Samsun, Turkey								19							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000563358200001	46	Article; Article		
J	Ketcheson, Leah; Felzer-Kim, Isabella Theresa; Hauck, Janet L.								Promoting Adapted Physical Activity Regardless of Language Ability in Young Children With Autism Spectrum Disorder								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				92	4			813	823		10.1080/02701367.2020.1788205			OCT 2 2021	2021	Purpose: There is a relationship between motor and language skills in children with Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD), but little work addresses the ramifications of this relationship for professionals who teach motor skills to this population. Within a motor skills intervention, this study probed the importance of language skills for motor intervention. We examined the relationship between motor and language skills at baseline, and then the relationship between baseline language skills and motor improvements resulting from the intervention.Method: Twenty children aged 4-6 years with ASD participated. Eleven children received 20 hr per week of motor intervention for 8 weeks. Nine children did not receive motor intervention. Language skills (Mullen Scales of Early Learning) and motor skills (Test of Gross Motor Development - 2) were assessed at baseline and post-intervention. Spearman correlations tested the associations between baseline language and baseline motor skills. This analysis was repeated in the intervention sample to test the association between baseline language level and response to intervention (motor skill changes from baseline to post-intervention).Results: Prior to intervention, locomotor skills are positively correlated (p < .001) with both receptive (rs = 0.827) and expressive (rs = 0.722) language skills. Similarly, object-control skills are positively correlated (rs < .001) with receptive (rs = 0.779) and expressive (rs = 0.729) language skills. However, those baseline language skills do not relate to motor change in the experimental group.Conclusion: These results suggest that motor programs may improve motor skills in children with ASD when language is supported, regardless of pre-program language ability.		[Ketcheson, Leah] Wayne State Univ, Detroit, MI 48202 USA; [Felzer-Kim, Isabella Theresa; Hauck, Janet L.] Michigan State Univ, E Lansing, MI 48824 USA; [Hauck, Janet L.] Michigan State Univ, Dept Kinesiol, 126 IM Sports Circle,308 W Circle Dr, E Lansing, MI 48824 USA								9							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000563355200001	68	Article; Article		
J	Kearney, Philip E.; Comyns, Thomas M.; Hayes, Philip								The Prevalence and Consequences of Within-Sport Specialization in Track and Field Athletics								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				92	4			779	786		10.1080/02701367.2020.1776819			OCT 2 2021	2021	Purpose: The aim of this study was to provide an in-depth analysis of the prevalence and consequences of within-sport specialization in track and field in the United Kingdom.Method: The competition histories of top 100 ranked athletes from four representative events (100 m, 800 m, long jump, and shot put) were recorded from a publically-accessible database. Athletes were drawn from Under 20 (U20), U15, and U13 populations from the 2014/15 season, U15 populations from the 2009/10 season, and U13 populations from the 2007/08 season. Athletes' specialization status was defined based upon the number of event groups (sprint, endurance, jump, throw) in which they had recorded at least one performance. Chi-squared tests were used to examine the association between level of specialization at U13 and U15 and both performance and retention at subsequent age grades.Results: Within-sport specialization was rare among U13 and U15 track and field athletes, with approximately 10% of top 100 ranked U13s and 25% of top 100 ranked U15s competing in a single event group only. However, less than 35% of participants competed in sprinting, endurance running, jumping, and throwing events (i.e., diversification). There were no sex differences in the extent of specialization. Top ranked U20 female athletes were more likely to have diversified at U13 than their peers. There was no association between specialization at U13/U15 and subsequent retention.Conclusion: Administrators and coach educators should provide more sophisticated guidance for coaches and parents in relation to within-sport specialization.		[Kearney, Philip E.; Comyns, Thomas M.] Univ Limerick, Limerick, Ireland; [Hayes, Philip] Northumbria Univ, Newcastle Upon Tyne, Tyne & Wear, England; [Kearney, Philip E.] Univ Limerick, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Limerick V94 YDE9, Ireland								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000563340800001	45	Article; Article		
J	Goreham, Joshua A.; Landry, Scott C.; Kozey, John W.; Smith, Bruce; Ladouceur, Michel								Using principal component analysis to investigate pacing strategies in elite international canoe kayak sprint races								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				22	11			1444	1459		10.1080/14763141.2020.1806348			NOV 2 2023	2023	The aim of this research was to use principal component analysis (PCA) to investigate the current pacing strategies of elite canoe kayak sprint athletes and to determine if there are differences in pacing patterns between medallists and non-medallists at major international competitions. Velocity data collected using global positioning systems (GPS) from all a-finals of major international competitions in 2016-2017 (including canoe and kayak, single and crew boat, and male and female) were downloaded from the International Canoe Federation's website. Data were normalised by the average velocity within each race and organised by race distance. In total 10, 14 and 16 races were analysed, and they followed all-out, positive, and 'seahorse-shaped' pacing strategies for the 200 m, 500 m, and 1000 m events, respectively. Normalised velocity PC1 (p= 0.039, ES = -0.44) and PC2 scores (p< 0.001, ES = -0.73) for 1000 m races were significantly different between medallists and non-medallists; however, significant differences between PCs were not found between groups in shorter race distances (i.e. 200 m and 500 m). Data collected using GPS provide information that can be used to better prepare athletes for canoe kayak sprint races lasting between 30 s and 240 s in duration.		[Goreham, Joshua A.; Kozey, John W.; Ladouceur, Michel] Dalhousie Univ, Kinesiol, Halifax, NS, Canada; [Landry, Scott C.] Acadia Univ, Kinesiol, Wolfville, NS, Canada; [Smith, Bruce] Dalhousie Univ, Math & Stat, Halifax, NS, Canada; [Ladouceur, Michel] Dalhousie Univ, Kinesiol, Halifax, NS, Canada								13							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000562624600001	35	Article; Article		
J	Bruce, Olivia L.; Ramsay, Mollee; Kennedy, Geneva; Edwards, W. Brent								Lower-limb joint kinetics in jump rope skills performed by competitive athletes								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				22	11			1398	1411		10.1080/14763141.2020.1801823			NOV 2 2023	2023	The purpose of this study was to characterise lower-limb joint kinetics during consecutive double unders and speed step sprints performed by competitive jump rope athletes, and to compare these measurements to running. Sixteen adolescent competitive jump rope athletes performed consecutive double under, speed step, and running trials while motion capture and ground reaction force data were collected. Lower-limb joint moments, power, and work were calculated using an inverse dynamics approach and discrete measurements were compared between skills. Peak ground reaction forces were similar between movements; however, knee and hip joint kinetics were distributed differently between double unders and speed step. In general, double unders were characterised by an increased reliance on knee joint kinetics, while speed step was characterised by an increased reliance on hip joint kinetics. Peak ankle moments were 9-20% greater in speed step when compared to double unders and running (p <= 0.050), and peak negative ankle power was 39-114% greater in double unders and speed step when compared to running (p <= 0.002). These findings may have important implications for injury risk and load management in jump rope athletes or other individuals that incorporate jump rope into their training programs.		[Bruce, Olivia L.; Ramsay, Mollee; Kennedy, Geneva; Edwards, W. Brent] Univ Calgary, Fac Kinesiol, Human Performance Lab, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Bruce, Olivia L.; Edwards, W. Brent] Univ Calgary, Biomed Engn Grad Program, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Bruce, Olivia L.] Univ Calgary, Fac Kinesiol, Human Performance Lab, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Bruce, Olivia L.] Univ Calgary, Biomed Engn Grad Program, Calgary, AB, Canada								16							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000567041600001	27	Article; Article		
J	Barbosa, Augusto C.; Araujo, Leonardo T.; Kanayama, Tatiana O. C.; de Souza, Joao Paulo C.; Lourenco, Thiago F.; Leis, Leonardo, V; Winckler, Ciro; Barroso, Renato								The classification in Para swimming: Analysis of a Paralympic champion's withdraw case								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	1			166	172	1747954120953523	10.1177/1747954120953523			FEB 2021	2021	This study compared the in-water bilateral leg kick speed difference between a Paralympic and an Olympic athlete. The Paralympic (former S10) was not eligible after his reclassification in 2019, whereas the Olympic was a semi-finalist in 50 m freestyle in Rio 2016. Kick performance was assessed by a speedometer in one push-off similar to 15 m maximal kick sprint. Ten complete cycles were analyzed, and the average speed of each leg in each cycle was calculated. Computerized planimetry assessed plantar feet areas. Differences between right and left feet areas were -22% and -2.1% for the Paralympic and Olympic, respectively. The left kick was slower in the Paralympic (p < 0.0001, ES: 2.35, very large), whereas no difference was found for the Olympic (p = 0.55, ES: 0.27, small). There is a substantial bilateral leg kick speed difference for the Paralympic, but not for the Olympic. The impact of Paralympic's impairment on his kick performance considerably differs when using quantitative and qualitative assessments.		[Barbosa, Augusto C.; Araujo, Leonardo T.; Kanayama, Tatiana O. C.; de Souza, Joao Paulo C.; Lourenco, Thiago F.] Brazilian Paralymp Comm, Rod Imigrantes Parque Estado, BR-04329000 Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil; [Barbosa, Augusto C.; Leis, Leonardo, V] Meazure Sport Sci, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Winckler, Ciro] Univ Fed Sao Paulo, Dept Human Movement Sci, Santos, SP, Brazil; [de Souza, Joao Paulo C.; Barroso, Renato] Univ Estadual Campinas, Sch Phys Educ, Dept Sport Sci, Campinas, SP, Brazil; [Barbosa, Augusto C.] Brazilian Paralymp Comm, Rod Imigrantes Parque Estado, BR-04329000 Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000563679400001	18	Article; Article		
J	Weber, Vinicius M. R.; Fernandes, Daniel Z.; Vieira, Edgar R.; Ferreira, Sandra A.; da Silva, Danilo F.; Queiroga, Marcos R.								Adaptation of Anaerobic Field-Based Tests for Wheelchair Basketball Athletes								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				92	4			715	722		10.1080/02701367.2020.1769009			OCT 2 2021	2021	Purpose: The aim of this study was to propose field-based tests to estimate the anaerobic power of wheelchair basketball athletes.Methods: Eleven lower class wheelchair basketball players performed the Wingate test (WT) and two field-based tests (repeated sprints) of 15 (S-15) and 20 (S-20) meters. The WT provides data in Watts (W). The S-15 and S-20 are recorded in seconds and converted to W using the Running-based Anaerobic Sprint Test (RAST) equation. The participants also completed other field-based tests, such as right and left handgrip strength (HGS) tests and the medicine ball chest pass test. In addition, body mass and height were measured, and the body composition was estimated. The field-based tests and anthropometric measures were used to estimate WT peak power (PP) and mean power (MP) using multiple linear regressions.Results: The field-based tests underestimated the anaerobic power measured with the WT (in W). However, a linear regression model based on S-15 PP, right HGS, height, and body mass explained 76% (P= .040) of the WT PP variance. Another model based on S-15 MP and right HGS explained 72% (P= .006) of the WT MP variance. Both models had excellent reliability (ICC > 0.90).Conclusion: WT PP can be estimated using S-15 PP (W), right HGS, height, and body mass. The WT MP is predicted using S-15 MP (W) and right HGS. Therefore, a combination of field-based tests and anthropometric measures seem to be appropriate to determine anaerobic power of lower class wheelchair basketball athletes.		[Weber, Vinicius M. R.; Fernandes, Daniel Z.; Queiroga, Marcos R.] State Univ Londrina UEL, Londrina, Parana, Brazil; [Fernandes, Daniel Z.; Ferreira, Sandra A.; Queiroga, Marcos R.] Midwestern Parana State Univ, UNICENTRO, Guarapuava, Parana, Brazil; [Vieira, Edgar R.] Florida Int Univ, Miami, FL 33199 USA; [da Silva, Danilo F.] Univ Ottawa, Ottawa, ON, Canada; [Fernandes, Daniel Z.] Midwestern Parana State Univ, UNICENTRO, Dept Phys Educ, Grp Study & Res Expt Physiol & Appl Phys Act LAFE, Simeao Camargo Varela de Sa St,Vila Carli 03, BR-85040080 Guarapuava, Parana, Brazil								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000562608300001	25	Article; Article		
J	Papadakis, Zacharias; Forsse, Jeffrey S.; Peterson, Matthew N.								Effects of High-Intensity Interval Exercise and Acute Partial Sleep Deprivation on Cardiac Autonomic Modulation								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				92	4			824	842		10.1080/02701367.2020.1788206			OCT 2 2021	2021	Sleep deprivation in healthy adults has been associated with disrupted autonomic nervous system function, which in turn has been linked to cardiovascular health. High-intensity interval exercise (HIIE) may affect both sleep and cardiac autonomic modulation.Purpose: To investigate the impact of acute partial sleep deprivation on autonomic cardiac regulation before and after an acute bout of HIIE and the length of time for the autonomic system to return to resting levels.Methods: Fifteen healthy males with body mass index (BMI) of 25.8 +/- 2.7 kg center dot m(-2) and age 31 +/- 5 y participated in a reference sleep (similar to 9.5 hr) with no HIIE (RS), a reference sleep with HIIE (RSX), and an acute partial sleep deprivation (similar to 3.5 hr) with HIIE (SDX). HIIE was performed in 3:2 intervals at 90% and 40% of VO2 reserve. Autonomic regulation through HRV selected time and frequency domain indices were recorded the night before, the morning of the next day, 1 hr-, 2 hr-, 4hr-, and 6-hr post-exercise. Results: HIIE performed in a 3:2 W:R ratio decreased the HRV (p<.05) at 1-hr post exercise and it took up to 4 hr to return to baseline levels. Parasympathetic related HRV indices increased the morning of the next day for SDX (p<.05). Acute partial sleep deprivation and HIIE did not modify the HRV responses compared to reference sleep and HIIE.Conclusion: HRV disturbance typically seen in responses to an acute episode of HIIE is not influenced by acute partial sleep deprivation.		[Papadakis, Zacharias; Forsse, Jeffrey S.; Peterson, Matthew N.] Barry Univ, Miami Shores, FL USA; [Papadakis, Zacharias] Barry Univ, Human Performance Lab, 11300 NE 2nd Ave, Miami Shores, FL 33161 USA								15							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000562607300001	121	Article; Article		
J	Swallow, William E.; Skidmore, Neil; Page, Richard M.; Malone, James J.								An examination of in-season external training load in semi-professional soccer players: considerations of one and two match weekly microcycles								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	1			192	199	1747954120951762	10.1177/1747954120951762			FEB 2021	2021	The aim of the present study was to firstly, quantify the external training load (TL) of semi-professional soccer players during an annual season and secondly, to examine the influence of one (1MW) and two (2MW) match weekly microcycles. Data were collected from 24 semi-professional outfield soccer players during the 2018-2019 annual season using micro-electromechanical system (MEMS) devices for the following variables: Training duration (min), total distance (TD), Player Load (PL), high speed running (HSR) distance (5.5-7.0 m/s), and acceleration (ACC) efforts (>2 m/s(2)). Training sessions were defined as days before match day (i.e. MD minus), with match weeks broken down as either 1MW or 2MW. Data revealed higher TD, PL, and HSR distance on MD and MD-5 when compared to all other MD codes. MD-4 displayed significantly higher values compared to MD-1 (mean differences (Mdiff): TD: 785 +/- 158 m; PL: 29 +/- 9 au; HSR: 192 +/- 63 m; ACC: 15 +/- 3 #) and MD-2 (Mdiff: TD: 279 +/- 137 m; HSR: 127 +/- 54 m). During 2MW scenarios, both TD (Mdiff: 685 +/- 328 m) and PL (Mdiff: 33 +/- 14 au) were higher on MD-1 when compared to 1MW. However, lower values were observed for duration and HSR on MD-2 and MD-4 during 2MW compared to 1MW scenarios.These data suggest that there appears to be a progressive reduction in TD, PL, HSR and ACC leading into competitive matches based on MD- analysis. However, some variability exists in TL prescription as a result of different MW scenarios (i.e. 1MW vs. 2MW).		[Swallow, William E.; Malone, James J.] Liverpool Hope Univ, Sch Hlth Sci, Liverpool L16 9JD, Merseyside, England; [Swallow, William E.] Celt Football Club, Sports Sci Dept, Glasgow, Lanark, Scotland; [Skidmore, Neil] Oldham Athlet Football Club, Sports Sci Dept, Oldham, England; [Page, Richard M.] Edge Hill Univ, Dept Sport & Phys Act, Ormskirk, England; [Malone, James J.] Liverpool Hope Univ, Sch Hlth Sci, Liverpool L16 9JD, Merseyside, England								25							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000562795200001	33	Article; Article		
J	Harris, Dale M.; Caillaud, Kevin; Khullar, Saumya; Haff, G. Gregory; Latella, Christopher								The reliability of a linear position transducer and commercially available accelerometer to measure punching velocity in junior boxing athletes								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	1			200	209	1747954120952574	10.1177/1747954120952574			FEB 2021	2021	Limited evidence exists demonstrating reliability of using direct measures to quantify punching velocity. The aim of this study was to establish the intra- and inter-day reliability of a linear positional transducer (GymAware) and accelerometer (PUSH Band 2.0) for the quantification of peak punching velocity in trained junior boxing athletes. Eighteen males aged 16.7 years (+/- 1.2) with at least two years of boxing experience participated in the study. On two separate days, participants performed five dominant-hand crosses with maximal effort. Ordinary least-products regression analysis was used to compare mean and maximum peak velocity scores between devices within each day of testing. Two-way mixed intraclass correlation coefficients (ICC3,1) and Pearson's r with 95% confidence intervals (95%CI) were also used to compare mean and maximum peak velocity within devices across days. Maximum peak (similar to 7.5 ms vs. similar to 6.2 ms) and mean peak (similar to 7.0 ms vs. 5.4 ms) velocity was higher when measured via GymAware compared to PUSH Band 2.0 on both days (all P <= 0.012). The within-device mean (ICC3,1 = 0.871, 95%CI = 0.689, 0.950) and maximum (ICC3,1 = 0.853 95%CI = 0.650, 0.942) peak velocity scores for the GymAware across Days 1 and 2 demonstrated very high reliabilities. Mean (ICC3,1 = 0.309, 95%CI = -0.170, 0.670) and maximum (ICC3,1 = 0.227, 95%CI = -0.173, 0.637) peak velocity for PUSH Band 2.0 demonstrated weak reliabilities. Proportional bias was found for Day 2 mean and maximum peak velocity and when both days were pooled. Fixed bias was observed for mean (Day 1) and maximum peak velocity when both days were pooled. These results may provide useful information for professionals working with boxing or combat-sport athletes.		[Harris, Dale M.] Victoria Univ, Year Coll 1, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Harris, Dale M.; Caillaud, Kevin; Khullar, Saumya] Inspire Inst Sport IIS, Vijayanagar, India; [Haff, G. Gregory; Latella, Christopher] Edith Cowan Univ, Ctr Exercise & Sports Sci Res CESSR, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, Joondalup, Australia; [Haff, G. Gregory] Univ Salford, Directorate Psychol & Sport, Salford, Lancs, England; [Latella, Christopher] Edith Cowan Univ, Neurophysiol Res Lab, Joondalup, Australia; [Harris, Dale M.] Victoria Univ, Footscray Pk Campus, Melbourne, Vic, Australia								8							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000562453200001	39	Article; Article		
J	Encarnacion-Martinez, Alberto; Sanchis-Sanchis, Roberto; Perez-Soriano, Pedro; Garcia-Gallart, Antonio								Relationship between muscular extensibility, strength and stability and the transmission of impacts during fatigued running								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				22	10			1364	1380		10.1080/14763141.2020.1797863			OCT 3 2023	2023	The aim was to analyse the relationship between isokinetic strength, dynamic stability, muscular extensibility and impacts transmission during fatigued running. Low- and high-frequency impacts-related to body movements and the severity of impacts, respectively-were assessed in 17 male recreational runners, before and after a treadmill running fatigue protocol, using a triaxial accelerometry system. High-frequency impacts in the tibia were negatively correlated to the knee angle at which the quadriceps peak torque was reached (p = 0.014), and also to the extensibility of the hamstrings and soleus (p = 0.001 and p = 0.023, respectively). The increases of high-frequency impacts in tibia caused by fatigue were positively related to the knee angle at which the hamstrings peak torque was reached (p = 0.001) and to stability after landing (p = 0.007). The attenuation of high-frequency impacts was positively related to hamstrings/quadriceps ratio of strength (p = 0.010) and to stability (p = 0.006). Limiting possible deficits in hamstring and soleus range of motion, improving stability after landing, developing hamstring and quadriceps strength in elongated muscle range, and maintaining a balanced ratio of hamstring/quadriceps strength could help to reduce the injury risk in running.		[Encarnacion-Martinez, Alberto; Sanchis-Sanchis, Roberto; Perez-Soriano, Pedro] Univ Valencia, Dept Phys Educ & Sports, Res Grp Sports Biomech, Valencia, Spain; [Garcia-Gallart, Antonio] Catholic Univ Murcia, Dept Sports Sci, Murcia, Spain; [Encarnacion-Martinez, Alberto] Univ Valencia, Dept Phys Educ & Sports, Res Grp Sports Biomech, Valencia, Spain								17							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000562181400001	60	Article; Article		
J	Carter, Cordelia W.; Campbell, Abigail; Whitney, Darryl; Feder, Oren; Kingery, Matthew; Baron, Samuel; Youm, Thomas; Gonzalez-Lomas, Guillem								Characterizing cam-type hip impingement in professional women's ice hockey players								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				49	2			203	206		10.1080/00913847.2020.1808434			APR 3 2021	2021	Objective There is a high prevalence of femoroacetabular impingement (FAI) amongst elite men's ice hockey players, yet little is known about the hips of players in the National Women's Hockey League (NWHL). The primary purpose of this study was to determine the prevalence of radiographic cam-type FAI in women's professional ice hockey players. The secondary purpose was to analyze the relationship between the cam deformity and both menarchal age and hip range-of-motion (ROM). Methods Data were collected for NWHL players during pre-participation physicals. Alpha angles were measured on 45 degrees Dunn radiographs, with alpha angles >55 degrees defined as cam-positive. Pearson correlation coefficients (rho) were performed to analyze the relationship between alpha angle and both ROM measurements and menarchal age, with statistical significance set at p Results Twenty-six athletes were included. Twenty-four (92%) had alpha angles >55 degrees; 20 players (77%) had bilateral cam deformity. Average menarchal age was 13.8 +/- 1.7 years. There was a significant association between age of menarche and alpha angle (rho = 0.36, p < 0.02). There was no significant association between alpha angle and hip ROM (p > 0.05). Conclusion Elite women's ice hockey players have a higher prevalence of cam-type morphology than the general population. The positive association between alpha angle and menarchal age lends additional support to the etiological hypothesis of the cam lesion resulting from activity-related stress at the proximal femoral physis during skeletal development. Professional women's ice hockey players have a high risk of developing cam-type morphology, although each player's menarchal age may mediate her individual risk for cam development.		[Carter, Cordelia W.; Campbell, Abigail; Whitney, Darryl; Feder, Oren; Kingery, Matthew; Baron, Samuel; Youm, Thomas; Gonzalez-Lomas, Guillem] NYU, Dept Orthoped Surg, Langone Hlth, New York, NY 10003 USA; [Carter, Cordelia W.] NYU, Dept Orthoped Surg, Langone Hlth, New York, NY 10003 USA								11							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000565375700001	23	Article; Article		
J	Wilkins, Celeste A.; Nankervis, Kathryn; Protheroe, Laurence; Draper, Stephen B.								Static pelvic posture is not related to dynamic pelvic tilt or competition level in dressage riders								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				22	10			1290	1302		10.1080/14763141.2020.1797150			OCT 3 2023	2023	Static assessment and grouping of riders by competition level are prevalent in equestrian coaching practice and research. This study explored sagittal pelvic tilt in 35 competitive dressage riders to analyse the relationship between static and dynamic postures and assess the interaction of competition level. Riders were assessed using optical motion capture on a riding simulator at halt and in walk, trot, and left and right canter. Mean, minimum and maximum pelvic tilt, and range of motion (ROM) were measured as the pitch rotation of a rigid body formed by markers placed on the rider's left/right anterior and posterior superior iliac spines and sacrum, averaged over six time-normalised strides. Three key results emerged: (1) there are correlations between the rider's mean pelvic tilt in simulated walk, trot and canter, but not at halt; (2) mean pelvic tilt values are not significantly influenced by competition level (p= 0.233); and (3) the minimum and maximum pelvic tilt values illustrate individual strategies between gaits. Therefore, results from static assessment and grouping of riders by competition level should be interpreted with caution. Riders should be assessed as individuals, during dynamic riding-specific tasks, to understand their postural strategies.		[Wilkins, Celeste A.; Nankervis, Kathryn; Protheroe, Laurence; Draper, Stephen B.] Hartpury Univ, Equine Dept, Gloucester, England; [Wilkins, Celeste A.] Hartpury Univ, Equine Dept, Gloucester, England								12							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000561934000001	32	Article; Article		
J	McLoughlin, Gabriella M.; Graber, Kim C.								The Contribution of Physical Education to Physical Activity Within a Comprehensive School Health Promotion Program								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				92	4			669	679		10.1080/02701367.2020.1765952			OCT 2 2021	2021	Purpose: Little is known about the role of physical education (PE) in a school health promotion model, particularly where wellness is placed at the forefront. The purpose of this study was to understand how PE contributes to the overall amount of moderate to vigorous physical activity (MVPA) that children receive in a school recognized for health promotion.Methods: As part of an in-depth case study, participants in grades 4-8 (N = 105) wore ActiGraph wGT3X+ accelerometers over 7 days to assess activity levels. Data were scored using ActiLife software. Using SPSS statistics software, students were grouped into low, moderate, and high activity through calculating tertile splits of average daily MVPA. Two 2 x 2 ANCOVA (sex x activity level) tests were conducted to determine the ratio of MVPA in PE to school and daily MVPA, controlling for age.Results: Participants accrued 8 min MVPA on average during PE with differences among low (6.4 +/- 2.5), moderate (8.3 +/- 3.7), and highly active participants (10.1 +/- 4.0). ANCOVA analyses revealed non-significant interactions between sex and activity level explaining variance in contribution of PE to school MVPA (F(2, 99) = .235,p= .791, partial eta(2) = .005) and daily MVPA (F(2, 99) = .299,p= .742, partial eta(2) = .006), but significant main effects between high and low activity for daily MVPA were observedF(2, 99) = 5.118p= .008, partial eta(2) = .094.Conclusions: PE remains a priority in supporting children's PA, particularly for those least active. Despite relatively low levels of MVPA, findings provide rationale for policy change supporting more frequent PE in schools.		[McLoughlin, Gabriella M.] Iowa State Univ, Ames, IA USA; [Graber, Kim C.] Univ Illinois, Urbana, IL 61801 USA; [McLoughlin, Gabriella M.] Iowa State Univ, Dept Kinesiol, 247 Forker Bldg,534 Wallace Rd, Ames, IA 50011 USA								8							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000561841600001	58	Article; Article		
J	Aguilar-Navarro, Millan; Baltazar-Martins, Gabriel; Brito de Souza, Diego; Munoz-Guerra, Jesus; del Mar Plata, Maria; Del Coso, Juan								Gender Differences in Prevalence and Patterns of Dietary Supplement Use in Elite Athletes								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				92	4			659	668		10.1080/02701367.2020.1764469			OCT 2 2021	2021	Purpose: Dietary supplement use by athletes has been the topic of previous research; however, the lack of homogeneity among published studies makes it difficult to analyze the differences, if any, in the patterns of use between male and female athletes. The aim of this study was to determine gender differences in the patterns of dietary supplement use by elite athletes.Methods: A total of 504 elite athletes (329 males and 175 females) participating in individual and team sports completed a validated questionnaire on dietary supplement use during the preceding season. The dietary supplements were categorized according to the latest IOC consensus statement.Results: A higher proportion of male versus female athletes (65.3 versus 56.5%,p< .05) consumed dietary supplements. Both male and female athletes reported a similar mean consumption of dietary supplements (3.2 +/- 2.1 versus 3.4 +/- 2.3 supplements/season, respectively;p= .45). Protein supplements were the most commonly consumed supplements in male athletes (49.8%) and their prevalence was higher than in female athletes (29.3%,p< .01). In females, multivitamins (39.4%) and branched-chain amino acids (39.4%) were the most commonly consumed supplements and iron supplementation was more prevalent than in males (22.2% versus 10.2%,p= .01). A higher proportion of male athletes relied on themselves to plan dietary supplements use (48.0%), while female appeared to rely more on doctors (34.0%,p< .01).Conclusion: In summary, male athletes had a slightly higher prevalence in the use of supplements than their female counterparts, specifically regarding protein supplements, and were more involved in the self-prescription of supplements.		[Aguilar-Navarro, Millan; Baltazar-Martins, Gabriel; Brito de Souza, Diego] Camilo Jose Cela Univ, Madrid, Spain; [Aguilar-Navarro, Millan] Francisco Vitoria Univ, Madrid, Spain; [Munoz-Guerra, Jesus; del Mar Plata, Maria] Spanish Agcy Hlth Protect Sport, Madrid, Spain; [Del Coso, Juan] Rey Juan Carlos Univ, Fuenlabrada, Spain; [Del Coso, Juan] Rey Juan Carlos Univ, Ctr Sport Studies, C Camino Del Molino S-N, Fuenlabrada 28943, Spain								52							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000560490000001	26	Article; Article		
J	Vinson, Don; Parker, Andrew								Christian sports coaches and servant leadership								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	2			304	316	1747954120951768	10.1177/1747954120951768			APR 2021	2021	The world of competitive sport can present a challenging environment for Christian athletes and coaches. The culture of competitive sport, and particularly the attitude to winning, can cause athletes and coaches to question how their Christian faith should shape participation and/or whether they should participate at all. Few empirical studies have explored how Christian coaches frame their practice to align with their faith and reconcile the potential contradictions and challenges of coaching within competitive sporting environments. That said, there has been a recent increase in the number of studies exploring the potential relationship between sports coaching and the concept of servant leadership - a framework which is commensurate with a Christian world view. The aim of this paper is to contribute to these debates by presenting empirical evidence to explore the philosophies, intended practices and sociocultural factors influencing how Christian coaches sought to lead in competitive sporting environments. One hundred and ten coaches (female = 24, male = 86) completed an online qualitative questionnaire which explored their beliefs about leadership and coaching practice. This paper considers the ways in which Christian coaches' might seek to frame their leadership behaviours within the context of competitive sport and how their approaches might align, or otherwise, with the theoretical tenets of servant leadership.		[Vinson, Don] Univ Worcester, Sch Sport & Exercise Sci, Worcester, England; [Parker, Andrew] Univ Gloucestershire, Sch Sport & Exercise, Cheltenham, Glos, England; [Vinson, Don] Univ Worcester, Worcester, England								8							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000561688500001	71	Article; Article		
J	Mostaert, Mireille; Laureys, Felien; Vansteenkiste, Pieter; Pion, Johan; Deconinck, Frederik J. A.; Lenoir, Matthieu								Discriminating performance profiles of cycling disciplines								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	1			110	122	1747954120948146	10.1177/1747954120948146			FEB 2021	2021	The aim of this study was to document the athletic profiles of adolescent and young adult high performance cycling athletes and to investigate to what extent different cycling disciplines can be discriminated from each other based on a generic test battery. A total of 243 adolescent (12.0- 15.99 y) and 63 young adult (>=16 y) male cyclists from road cycling, track cycling, cyclo-cross, and mountain bike (MTB) participated in the study. All participants performed four anthropometric, five physical, three motor coordination, and two cycling-specific tests. Using discriminant analyses, the young adult athletes could be correctly classified to their discipline for 80.7%. Track cyclists outperformed the other disciplines in explosive and coordinative skills while for cyclo-cross, and particularly MTB, the performance on the shuttle bike test seemed to be a distinctive variable. Road cyclists however, showed a significant overlap in performance characteristics with the other disciplines. In spite of the less pronounced discriminative character in the adolescent cycling population (51.0%), the discriminative characteristics are in line with the results of the young adults. This study allows to orient cyclists towards their best-fitted discipline in young adulthood. The relevance of these findings for coaches, experts and federations with respect to early/late specialization, and talent orientation are discussed.		[Mostaert, Mireille; Laureys, Felien; Vansteenkiste, Pieter; Pion, Johan; Deconinck, Frederik J. A.; Lenoir, Matthieu] Univ Ghent, Dept Movement & Sport Sci, Ghent, Belgium; [Pion, Johan] HAN Univ Appl Sci, Sport & Exercise Studies, Nijmegen, Netherlands; [Mostaert, Mireille] Univ Ghent, Dept Movement & Sport Sci, Ghent, Belgium								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000559533900001	47	Article; Article		
J	Zhang, Yinghui; Kim, Euisoo; Xing, Zunming								Image congruence between sports event and host city and its impact on attitude and behavior intention								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				22	1			67	86		10.1108/IJSMS-03-2020-0040			MAR 29 2021	2021	Purpose Image congruence is one central metrics that significantly influences image transfer. Nevertheless, studies on impact of image congruence on consumers' attitudinal and behavioral components in the context of sport tourism remain few. Therefore, this study aims to investigate the relationship among image congruence between sport event and host city, spectators' attitude toward the event and city and their intention to revisit and recommend the event and city. A mediating role of attitude in the relationship between image congruence and behavioral intention was also examined. Design/methodology/approach The study selected non-local spectators of the F1 Chinese Grand Prix and Shanghai ATP Masters 1000 as the participants. A total of 491 valid questionnaires were obtained from the survey of two events, including 222 from F1 Chinese Grand Prix and 269 from Shanghai ATP Masters 1000. Among respondents, 360 were Chinese spectators from other regions (73.3%) and 131 were international spectators (26.7%). The data were analyzed via descriptive statistics, correlations, factor analysis, exploratory factor analysis (EFA), confirmatory factor analysis (CFA), hierarchical regression analysis and ANOVA. Findings The results showed that image congruence between sports event and host city had a positive impact on spectators' attitude toward and intention to recommend the city; but it had no significant impact on attitude toward event, intention to revisit and recommend the event and intention to revisit the city. Attitude toward event had a positive impact on intention to revisit and recommend the event, and attitude toward host city had a positive impact on intention to revisit and recommend the city. In addition, attitude toward host city fully mediated the relationship between image congruence and intention to recommend the city. Originality/value The current study provides a meaningful contribution to the existing literature by examining the impact of image congruence on spectators' attitudinal and behavioral components in the context of sport tourism.		[Zhang, Yinghui; Xing, Zunming] Huaqiao Univ, Coll Phys Educ, Xiamen, Peoples R China; [Kim, Euisoo] Univ Georgia, Dept Kinesiol, Athens, GA 30602 USA; [Zhang, Yinghui] Huaqiao Univ, Coll Phys Educ, Xiamen, Peoples R China								38							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000558936500001	70	Article; Article		
J	Chandrakumaran, Jemuel								The AFL Pick Trading Market as a Coasian Utopia								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				22	1			75	84	1527002520948108	10.1177/1527002520948108			JAN 2021	2021	Sporting leagues have various competitive balance measures including player drafts, where teams are awarded picks based on prior performance. Teams, however, have the option to either exercise this pick or trade it as they see fit. An analysis of this trading market in the NFL stated that players obtained through traded picks contributed more to their recruiters in comparison to their counterparts. This paper retested this within the AFL and disproved this fact, establishing the Coasian notion of the efficient allocation of resources, based on some differences between the list management systems between the two leagues.		[Chandrakumaran, Jemuel] RMIT Univ, Sch Econ Finance & Mkt, 124 La Trobe St, Melbourne, Vic 3001, Australia; [Chandrakumaran, Jemuel] RMIT Univ, Sch Econ Finance & Mkt, 124 La Trobe St, Melbourne, Vic 3001, Australia								7							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000557484600001	17	Article; Article		
J	Giraldez-Costas, Veronica; Gonzalez-Garcia, Jaime; Lara, Beatriz; Del Coso, Juan; Wilk, Michal; Jose Salinero, Juan								Caffeine Increases Muscle Performance During a Bench Press Training Session								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				74	1			185	193		10.2478/hukin-2020-0024			AUG 2020	2020	Previous investigations have established the ergogenic effect of caffeine on maximal muscle strength, power output and strength-endurance. However, these investigations used testing protocols that do not replicate the structure of a regular strength training session. Thus, the aim of this study was to investigate the effect of acute caffeine ingestion on muscle performance during a simulated velocity-based training workout. In a double-blind, randomized and counterbalanced experiment, 12 participants performed two experimental trials after ingesting 3 mg/kg/b.m. of caffeine or a placebo. The trials consisted of 4 sets of 8 repetitions of the bench press exercise at 70% of their one-repetition maximum performed at maximal velocity. Bar velocity was recorded with a rotatory encoder and force, power output and work were calculated. Regarding the whole workout, caffeine increased mean bar velocity (+7.8%; p=0.002), peak bar velocity (+8.7%; p=0.006), mean force (+1.5%; p=0.002), mean power output (+10.1%; p=0.003) and peak power output (+8.2%; p=0.004) when compared to the placebo. The total work performed in the caffeine trial was superior to the placebo trial (7.01 +/- 2.36 vs 6.55 +/- 2.20 kJ, p=0.001). These results suggest that the acute intake of 3 mg/kg/b.m. of caffeine before a velocity-based strength workout increased muscle performance and the total work performed across the whole training session. Thus, caffeine can be considered as an effective strategy to enhance muscle performance during the bench press training sessions.		[Giraldez-Costas, Veronica; Gonzalez-Garcia, Jaime; Lara, Beatriz; Jose Salinero, Juan] Camilo Jose Cela Univ, Exercise Physiol Lab, Madrid, Spain; [Giraldez-Costas, Veronica] Autonomus Univ Madrid, Dept Phys Educ Sport & Human Movement, Madrid, Spain; [Del Coso, Juan] Rey Juan Carlos Univ, Ctr Sport Studies, Fuenlabrada, Spain; [Wilk, Michal] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Inst Sport Sci, Katowice, Poland; [Jose Salinero, Juan] Castilla La Mancha Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Toledo, Spain; [Jose Salinero, Juan] Camilo Jose Cela Univ, C Castillo Alarcon 49, Madrid 28642, Spain								16							Sport Sciences	WOS:000590446400016	32	Article; Article		
J	Piqueras-Sanchiz, Francisco; Sabido, Rafael; Raya-Gonzalez, Javier; Madruga-Parera, Marc; Romero-Rodriguez, Daniel; Beato, Marco; de Hoyo, Moises; Yuzo Nakamura, Fabio; Luis Hernandez-Davo, Jose								Effects of Different Inertial Load Settings on Power Output Using a Flywheel Leg Curl Exercise and its Inter-Session Reliability								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				74	1			215	226		10.2478/hukin-2020-0029			AUG 2020	2020	This study aimed to analyze the influence of the inertial load on both concentric and eccentric power output production during the flywheel leg curl exercise, and to assess the reliability of power output variables. Sixteen participants (8 males, 8 females) attended 4 testing sessions. During testing, participants performed one set of eight repetitions using a specific inertial load (0.083, 0.132, 0.182, 0.266 and 0.350 kg.m(2)) with a flywheel leg curl exercise. Concentric (CON) power, eccentric (ECC) power and the ECC/CON ratio were analyzed. The reliability analysis between sessions was performed. A significant interaction of inertia load x gender was found in CON power (p < 0.001) and in ECC power (p = 0.004), but not in the ECC/CON ratio (p = 0.731). A significant with-in (inertia loads) effect was found in CON power (p < 0.001) and in ECC power (p < 0.001), but not in the ECC/CON ratio (p = 0.096). CON power showed very high reliability scores, ECC power showed high to very high reliability scores, while the ECC/CON ratio ranged from poor to moderate. A significant between gender effect was found in CON power (p < 0.001) and in ECC power (p < 0.001), but not in the ECC/CON ratio (p = 0.752). This study is the first to report that power output in the flywheel leg curl exercise is altered by the inertia load used, as well as power output is different according to gender. CON and ECC power output presents high to very high reliability scores, and the ECC/CON ratio should not be used instead. These results can have important practical implications for testing and training prescription in sports.		[Piqueras-Sanchiz, Francisco; Madruga-Parera, Marc] ReQsports, Physiotherapy & Sports Training Ctr, Barcelona, Spain; [Sabido, Rafael; Luis Hernandez-Davo, Jose] Miguel Hernandez Univ Elche, Sport Res Ctr, Sport Sci Dept, Elche, Spain; [Raya-Gonzalez, Javier] Univ Isabel I, Fac Hlth Sci, Burgos, Spain; [Madruga-Parera, Marc; Romero-Rodriguez, Daniel] Univ Girona, EUSES Hlth & Sport Sci Sch, Girona, Spain; [Beato, Marco] Univ Suffolk, Sch Sci Technol & Engn, Ipswich, Suffolk, England; [de Hoyo, Moises] Univ Seville, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Seville, Spain; [Yuzo Nakamura, Fabio] G dAnnunzio Univ Chieti Pescara, Dept Med & Aging Sci, Chieti, Italy; [Yuzo Nakamura, Fabio] James Cook Univ, Coll Hlth Care Sci, Townsville, Qld, Australia; [Luis Hernandez-Davo, Jose] Avda Univ S-N, Alicante 03202, Spain								22							Sport Sciences	WOS:000590446400019	33	Article; Article		
J	Oliveira, Jorge; Campos, Yuri; Leitao, Luis; Arriel, Rhai; Novaes, Jefferson; Vianna, Jeferson								Does Acute Blood Flow Restriction with Pneumatic and Non-Pneumatic Non-Elastic Cuffs Promote Similar Responses in Blood Lactate, Growth Hormone, and Peptide Hormone?								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				74	1			85	97		10.2478/hukin-2020-0016			AUG 2020	2020	Blood flow restriction (BFR) can be used during resistance training (RT) through pressure application with pneumatic (pressurized) cuffs (PC) or non-pneumatic (practical) cuffs (NPC). However, PC are expensive and difficult to use in the gym environment compared to NPC. The main aim was to compare, correlate, and verify the hormonal and metabolic responses between PC and NPC during a low-load BFR during RT of the upper-body. The secondary aim was to compare blood lactate (BLa) concentration between pre- and post-exercise (2-min into recovery), as well as growth hormone (GH) and insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) concentration before, 10-min, and 15-min post exercise. Sixteen trained men randomly and alternately completed two experimental RT protocols of the upper-body : A) RT with BFR at 20% 1RM using PC (RT-BFR-PC) and (B) RT with BFR at 20% 1RM using NPC (RT-BFR-NPC) in the bench press, wide-grip lat pulldown, shoulder press, triceps pushdown, and biceps curl exercises. There was no significant difference in BLa 2-min post exercise (p=0.524), GH 10-min (p=0.843) and 15-min post exercise (p=0.672), and IGF-1 10-min (p=0.298) and 15-min post exercise (p=0.201) between RT-BFR-PC and RT-BFR-NPC. In addition, there was a moderate correlation, satisfactory ICCs, and agreement between both protocols in metabolic and hormonal responses. The experimental sessions promoted significant increases in GH and BLa, but not in IGF-1 (p<0.05). The absence of a significant difference between RT-BFR-PC and RT-BFR-NPC in metabolic and hormonal responses highlight the applicability of NPC as a low-cost and easy-to-use tool for BFR upper-body RT.		[Oliveira, Jorge; Campos, Yuri; Leitao, Luis; Arriel, Rhai; Novaes, Jefferson; Vianna, Jeferson] Univ Fed Juiz de Fora, Postraduate Program, Sch Phys Educ & Sports, Juiz De Fora, Brazil; [Oliveira, Jorge] Educ Fdn Alem Paraiba, Alem Paraiba, Brazil; [Campos, Yuri] Univ Fed Lavras, Study & Res Grp Neuromuscular Responses, Lavras, Brazil; [Leitao, Luis] Polytech Inst Setubal, Ctr Sch Educ, Setubal, Portugal; [Novaes, Jefferson] Univ Fed Rio de Janeiro, Postraduate Program Phys Educ, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil; [Campos, Yuri] Univ Lavras, Dept Phys Educ, POB 3037, BR-37200000 Lavras, Brazil								12							Sport Sciences	WOS:000590446400008	45	Article; Article		
J	Grgic, Jozo; Venier, Sandro; Schoenfeld, Brad J.; Mikulic, Pavle								Caffeine Ingestion Enhances Repetition Velocity in Resistance Exercise: A Randomized, Crossover, Double-Blind Study Involving Control and Placebo Conditions								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				74	1			177	183		10.2478/hukin-2020-0023			AUG 2020	2020	We aimed to examine the effects of placebo and caffeine compared to a control condition on mean velocity in the bench press exercise. Twenty-five resistance-trained men participated in this randomized, crossover, double-blind study. The participants performed the bench press with loads of 50%, 75%, and 90% of one-repetition maximum (1RM), after no supplementation (i.e., control), and after ingesting caffeine (6 mg/kg), and placebo (6 mg/kg of dextrose). At 50% 1RM, there was a significant effect of caffeine on mean velocity compared to control (effect size LES] = 0.29; p = 0.003), but not when compared to placebo (ES = 0.09; p = 0.478). At 75% 1RM, there was a significant effect of caffeine on mean velocity compared to placebo (ES = 0.34; p = 0.001), and compared to control (ES = 0.32; p < 0.001). At 90% 1RM, there was a significant effect of caffeine on mean velocity compared to placebo (ES = 0.36; p < 0.001), and compared to control (ES = 0.46; p < 0.001). There was no significant difference between placebo and control in any of the analyzed outcomes. When evaluated pre-exercise and post-exercise, 20% to 44% and 28% to 52% of all participants identified caffeine and placebo trials beyond random chance, respectively. Given that the blinding of the participants was generally effective, and that there were no significant ergogenic effects of placebo ingestion, the improvements in performance following caffeine ingestion can be mainly attributed to caffeine's physiological mechanisms of action.		[Grgic, Jozo] Victoria Univ, Inst Hlth & Sport IHES, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Venier, Sandro; Mikulic, Pavle] Univ Zagreb, Fac Kinesiol, Zagreb, Croatia; [Schoenfeld, Brad J.] Lehman Coll, Dept Hlth Sci, Bronx, NY USA; [Mikulic, Pavle] Univ Zagreb, Fac Kinesiol, Zagreb, Croatia								6							Sport Sciences	WOS:000590446400015	26	Article; Article		
J	Suchomel, Timothy J.; Sole, Christopher J.; Bellon, Christopher R.; Stone, Michael H.								Dynamic Strength Index: Relationships with Common Performance Variables and Contextualization of Training Recommendations								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				74	1			59	70		10.2478/hukin-2020-0014			AUG 2020	2020	The purposes of this study were to examine the relationships between dynamic strength index (DSI) and other strength-power performance characteristics and to contextualize DSI scores using case study comparisons. 88 male and 67 female NCAA division I collegiate athletes performed countermovement jumps (CMJ) and isometric mid-thigh pulls (IMTP) during a pre-season testing session as part of a long-term athlete monitoring program. Spearman's correlations were used to assess the relationships between DSI and CMJ peak force, height, modified reactive strength index, peak power and IMTP peak force and rate of force development (RFD). Very large relationships existed between DSI and IMTP peak force (r = -0.848 and -0.746), while small-moderate relationships existed between DSI and CMJ peak force (r = 0.297 and 0.313), height (r = 0.108 and 0.167), modified reactive strength index (r = 0.174 and 0.274), and IMTP RFD (r = -0.341 and -0.338) for men and women, respectively. Finally, relationships between DSI and CMJ peak power were trivial-small for male (r = 0.008) and female athletes (r = 0.191). Case study analyses revealed that despite similar DSI scores, each athlete's percentile rankings for each variable and CMJ force-time characteristics were unique, which may suggest different training emphases are needed. Based on the explained variance, an athlete's IMTP performance may have a larger influence on their DSI score compared to the CMJ. DSI scores should be contextualized using additional performance data to ensure each individual athlete receives the appropriate training stimulus during different training phases throughout the year.		[Suchomel, Timothy J.] Carroll Univ, Dept Human Movement Sci, Waukesha, WI 53186 USA; [Sole, Christopher J.; Bellon, Christopher R.] Citadel Mil Coll South Carolina, Dept Hlth & Human Performance, Charleston, SC USA; [Stone, Michael H.] East Tennessee State Univ, Dept Sport Exercise Recreat & Kinesiol, Johnson City, TN USA; [Suchomel, Timothy J.] Carroll Univ, 100 N East Ave, Waukesha, WI 53186 USA								30							Sport Sciences	WOS:000590446400006	30	Article; Article		
J	Szafraniec, Rafal; Bartkowski, Janusz; Kawczynski, Adam								Effects of Short-Term Core Stability Training on Dynamic Balance and Trunk Muscle Endurance in Novice Olympic Weightlifters								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				74	1			43	50		10.2478/hukin-2020-0012			AUG 2020	2020	Our primary objective was to investigate the effects of short-term core stability training on dynamic balance and trunk muscle endurance in novice weightlifters learning the technique of the Olympic lifts. Our secondary objective was to compare dynamic balance and trunk muscle endurance between novice and experienced weightlifters. Thirty novice (NOV) and five experienced (EXP) weightlifters participated in the study. Mediolateral (ML) and anteroposterior (AP) dynamic balance and trunk muscle endurance testing were performed a week before (Pre) and after (Post) a 4-week core stability training program. In the NOV group, there was an improvement of both dynamic balance (ML and AP, p = 0.0002) and trunk muscle endurance (p = 0.0002). In the EXP group, there was no significant difference between Pre and Post testing conditions, except an increase in muscle endurance in the right-side plank (p = 0.0486). Analysis of the results showed that experienced lifters were characterized by more effective dynamic balance and greater core muscle endurance than their novice peers, not only before the training program but after its completion as well. In conclusion, the applied short-term core stability training improved dynamic balance and trunk muscle endurance in novice weightlifters learning the Olympic lifts. Such an exercise program can be incorporated into a training regime of novice weightlifters to prepare them for technically difficult tasks of the Olympic snatch and clean and jerk.		[Szafraniec, Rafal; Bartkowski, Janusz; Kawczynski, Adam] Univ Sch Phys Educ Wroclaw, Fac Sport Sci, Wroclaw, Poland; [Szafraniec, Rafal] Univ Sch Phys Educ Wroclaw, Fac Sport Sci, Wroclaw, Poland								19							Sport Sciences	WOS:000590446400004	26	Article; Article		
J	Helms, Eric R.; Kwan, Kedric; Sousa, Colby A.; Cronin, John B.; Storey, Adam G.; Zourdos, Michael C.								Methods for Regulating and Monitoring Resistance Training								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				74	1			23	42		10.2478/hukin-2020-0011			AUG 2020	2020	Individualisation can improve resistance training prescription. This is accomplished via monitoring or autoregulating training. Autoregulation adjusts variables at an individualised pace per performance, readiness, or recovery. Many autoregulation and monitoring methods exist; therefore, this review's objective was to examine approaches intended to optimise adaptation. Up to July 2019, PubMed, Medline, SPORTDiscus, Scopus and CINAHL were searched. Only studies on methods of athlete monitoring useful for resistance-training regulation, or autoregulated training methods were included. Eleven monitoring and regulation themes emerged across 90 studies. Some physiological, performance, and perceptual measures correlated strongly (r >= 0.68) with resistance training performance. Testosterone, cortisol, catecholamines, cell free DNA, jump height, throwing distance, barbell velocity, isometric and dynamic peak force, maximal voluntary isometric contractions, and sessional, repetitions in reserve(RIR) based, and post-set Borg-scale ratings of perceived exertion (RPE) were strongly associated with training performance, respectively. Despite strong correlations, many physiological and performance methods are logistically restrictive or limited to lab-settings, such as blood markers, electromyography or kinetic measurements. Some practical performance tests such as jump height or throw distance may be useful, low-risk stand-ins for maximal strength tests. Performance-based individualisation of load progression, flexible training configurations, and intensity and volume modifications based on velocity and RIR-based RPE scores are practical, reliable and show preliminary utility for enhancing performance.		[Helms, Eric R.; Kwan, Kedric; Sousa, Colby A.; Cronin, John B.; Storey, Adam G.] Auckland Univ Technol, Sport Performance Res Inst New Zealand SPRINZ, Level 2,17 Antares Pl, Auckland 0632, New Zealand; [Cronin, John B.] Edith Cowan Univ, Sch Exercise Biomed & Hlth Sci, Perth, WA, Australia; [Zourdos, Michael C.] Florida Atlantic Univ, Muscle Physiol Lab, Dept Exercise Sci & Hlth Promot, Boca Raton, FL 33431 USA; [Helms, Eric R.] Auckland Univ Technol, Sport Performance Res Inst New Zealand SPRINZ, Level 2,17 Antares Pl, Auckland 0632, New Zealand								37							Sport Sciences	WOS:000590446400003	100	Article; Article		
J	Merrigan, Justin J.; Jones, Margaret T.; Padecky, Jan; Malecek, Jan; Omcirk, Dan; Scott, Brendan R.; Tufano, James J.								Impact of Rest-Redistribution on Fatigue During Maximal Eccentric Knee Extensions								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				74	1			205	214		10.2478/hukin-2020-0028			AUG 2020	2020	Redistributing long inter-set rest intervals into shorter but more frequent rest intervals generally maintains concentric performance, possibly due to improved energy store maintenance. However, eccentric actions require less energy than concentric actions, meaning that shorter but more frequent sets may not affect eccentric actions to the same degree as concentric actions. Considering the increased popularity of eccentric exercise, the current study evaluated the effects of redistributing long inter-set rest periods into shorter but more frequent rest periods during eccentric only knee extensions. Eleven resistance-trained men performed 40 isokinetic unilateral knee extensions at 60 degrees .s(-1) with 285 s of total rest using traditional sets (TS; 4 sets of 10 with 95 s inter-set rest) and rest-redistribution (RR; 20 sets of 2 with 15 s inter-set rest). Before and during exercise, muscle oxygenation was measured via near-infrared spectroscopy, and rating of perceived exertion (RPE) was recorded after every 10th repetition. There were no differences between protocols for peak torque (RR, 241.58 +/- 47.20 N; TS, 231.64 +/- 48.87 N; p=0.396) or total work (RR, 215.26 +/- 41.47 J; TS, 209.71 +/- 36.02 J; p=0.601), but moderate to large effect sizes existed in later repetitions (6,8,10) with greater peak torque during RR (d=0.66-1.19). For the entire session, RR had moderate effects on RPE (RR, 5.73 +/- 1.42; TS, 6.09 +/- 1.30; p=0.307; d=0.53) and large effects on oxygen saturation (RR, 5857.4 +/- 310.0; TS, 6495.8 +/- 273.8; p=0.002, d=2.13). Therefore, RR may maintain peak torque or total work during eccentric exercise, improve oxygen utilization at the muscle, and reduce the perceived effort.		[Merrigan, Justin J.; Padecky, Jan; Malecek, Jan; Omcirk, Dan; Tufano, James J.] Charles Univ Prague, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, 31 Jose Martiho, Prague 16252, Czech Republic; [Merrigan, Justin J.; Jones, Margaret T.] George Mason Univ, Sch Kinesiol, Manassas, VA USA; [Scott, Brendan R.] Murdoch Univ, Coll Sci Hlth Engn & Educ, Dept Exercise Sci, Murdoch, WA, Australia; [Scott, Brendan R.] Murdoch Univ, Murdoch Appl Sports Sci Lab, Murdoch, WA, Australia; [Tufano, James J.] Charles Univ Prague, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, 31 Jose Martiho, Prague 16252, Czech Republic								6							Sport Sciences	WOS:000590446400018	32	Article; Article		
J	Krzysztofik, Michal; Wilk, Michal								The Effects of Plyometric Conditioning on Post-Activation Bench Press Performance								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				74	1			99	108		10.2478/hukin-2020-0017			AUG 2020	2020	The present study aimed to determine the effects of plyometric push-ups as a conditioning activity (CA) on high-loaded bench press performance. Two groups of resistance-trained males age (24.5 +/- 2.6 years, body mass 84.8 +/- 8 kg) performed one of two CA protocols: 3 sets of 5 repetitions of plyometric push-ups with a 1 min rest interval between sets (PAPE; n=12) or equal time aerobic warm-up (CONT; n=12). Four minutes after completion of the CA protocols the participants performed 3 sets of 3 repetitions of the bench press exercise at 70%1RM and 4 min rest interval between sets to assess post-activation differences in peak power output (PP), mean power output (MP), peak bar velocity (PV), and mean bar velocity (MV) between conditions. The two-way ANOVA revealed significant condition x set interaction effect for PP (p<0.01), MP (p<0.05), PV (p<0.01), and MV (p=0.02). The post hoc for condition x set interaction showed that PAPE caused a significant decrease in PP and PV for P-Set2 and P-Set3 when compared to baseline (BA). The MP and MV for the PAPE condition decreased significantly during the P-Set3 compared to BA and to P-Sett. The t-test comparisons for delta values showed significant differences between PAPE and CONT in PP for P-Sett - BA (p<0.01), in MP for P-Set2 - P-Sett (p<0.03) and for P-Set3 - P-Sett (p=0.04). Furthermore, there were significant differences in PV for P-Set3 - BA; P-Set2 - P-Sett; P-Set3 - P-Sett (p<0.01; p<0.01; p<0.02 respectively). Finally, there were significant differences in MV for P-Sett - BA; P-Set2 - P-Sett and P-Set3 - P-Sett (p<0.01; p<0.01; p<0.02 respectively). This study demonstrated that plyometric push-ups lead to performance enhancement of the bench press exercise at 70%1RM. The increases in performance were observed only in the first set following the CA, while a significant decrease of these variables was registered in P-Set2 and P-Set3.		[Krzysztofik, Michal; Wilk, Michal] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Inst Sport Sci, Ul Mikolowska 72a, PL-40065 Katowice, Poland; [Krzysztofik, Michal] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Inst Sport Sci, Ul Mikolowska 72a, PL-40065 Katowice, Poland								40							Sport Sciences	WOS:000590446400009	25	Article; Article		
J	Lockie, Robert G.; Moreno, Matthew R.; McGuire, Megan B.; Ruvalcaba, Tomas J.; Bloodgood, Ashley M.; Dulla, Joseph M.; Orr, Robin M.; Dawes, J. Jay								Relationships between Isometric Strength and the 74.84-kg (165-Ib) Body Drag Test in Law Enforcement Recruits								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				74	1			5	13		10.2478/hukin-2020-0019			AUG 2020	2020	This study investigated whether: law enforcement recruits could complete a 74.84-kg (165-lb) body drag without specific training; relationships between the body drag and absolute and relative isometric grip and leg/back strength could be established to assist with training recommendations; a strength baseline needed to complete the 74.84kg body drag could be established. Retrospective analysis on a recruit class (72 males, 21 females) from one agency was conducted. Recruits completed the body drag, and had strength assessed by hand grip and leg/back dynamometers in the week before academy. The body drag required the recruit to lift the dummy to standing and drag it 9.75 m as quickly as possible. Independent samples t-tests calculated between-sex differences in the drag and strength measures. Recruits were ranked according to drag time to describe the strength of recruits that could not perform the task. Pearson's correlations and a stepwise linear regression calculated relationships between the body drag and isometric strength. Male recruits completed the drag faster and were stronger than females (p < 0.001). Only two females could not complete the drag, and they had leg/back strength below 100 kg. Greater absolute (r = -0.599 and -0.677) and relative (r = -0.261 and -0.322) grip (combined score) and leg/back strength, respectively, related to a faster drag. Absolute leg/back strength predicted the body drag (r(2) = 0.444). Improving absolute isometric grip and leg/back strength could enhance dragging ability. A minimum isometric leg/back strength score of 100 kg may be needed to perform a 74.84-kg body drag.		[Lockie, Robert G.; Moreno, Matthew R.; McGuire, Megan B.; Ruvalcaba, Tomas J.; Bloodgood, Ashley M.] Calif State Univ Fullerton, Dept Kinesiol, 800 N State Coll Blvd, Fullerton, CA 92634 USA; [Dulla, Joseph M.] Los Angeles Cty Sheriffs Dept, Training Bur, Recruit Training Unit, Los Angeles, CA USA; [Dulla, Joseph M.; Orr, Robin M.] Bond Univ, Tact Res Unit, Robina, Qld, Australia; [Dawes, J. Jay] Oklahoma State Univ, Dept Hlth & Human Performance, Stillwater, OK 74078 USA; [Lockie, Robert G.] Calif State Univ Fullerton, Dept Kinesiol, 800 N State Coll Blvd, Fullerton, CA 92634 USA								32							Sport Sciences	WOS:000590446400001	30	Article; Article		
J	Orr, Robin M.; Pope, Rodney P.; O'Shea, Simone; Knapik, Joseph J.								Load Carriage for Female Military Personnel								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				42	4			50	58		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000514			AUG 2020	2020	This article reviews the physiological, biomechanical, and health impacts of load carriage on the female soldier and includes issues impacting on the female athlete and hence female soldier. Physiological factors (e.g., mass, strength, and aerobic endurance) and biomechanical factors (e.g., forward trunk lean and step length) have the potential to increase the energy cost of load carriage and injury risk. Optimal load carriage conditioning guidelines are presented while considering issues specific to the female soldier, including the female athlete triad and pelvic floor muscle dysfunction, which can likewise reduce performance and increase injury risk.		[Orr, Robin M.; Pope, Rodney P.] Bond Univ, Tact Res Unit, Gold Coast, Qld, Australia; [Orr, Robin M.] Bond Univ, Fac Hlth Sci & Med, Gold Coast, Qld, Australia; [Pope, Rodney P.; O'Shea, Simone] Charles Sturt Univ, Fac Sci, Sch Community Hlth, Albury, NSW, Australia; [Knapik, Joseph J.] Henry M Jackson Fdn Adv Mil Med, Bethesda, MD USA; [Orr, Robin M.] Bond Univ, Tact Res Unit, Gold Coast, Qld, Australia; [Orr, Robin M.] Bond Univ, Fac Hlth Sci & Med, Gold Coast, Qld, Australia								9							Sport Sciences	WOS:000559343100006	100	Article; Article		
J	Loewen, Brandon; Collum, Connor; Ryan, Greg A.								Exercise Benefits and Recommendations for the 6-Week Postpartum Period								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				42	4			12	21		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000578			AUG 2020	2020	The postpartum period is the stage after childbirth and is associated with many physical and psychological changes. Exercise has been shown to be beneficial for both the physical and psychological health of a new mother. Previous literature has examined the effect of both aerobic and resistance training in this period; however, there have been no clear guidelines and recommendations provided. Therefore, the purpose of this article is to review the benefits of exercise in the postpartum period, and to provide guidelines and a sample 6-week aerobic and resistance training program after exercise initiation after delivery and medical clearance. A video abstract describing this article can be found in Supplemental Digital Content 1 (see video, http://links.lww.com/SCJ/A295).		[Loewen, Brandon; Collum, Connor; Ryan, Greg A.] Georgia Southern Univ, Dept Hlth Sci & Kinesiol, Statesboro, GA 30458 USA; [Ryan, Greg A.] Georgia Southern Univ, Dept Hlth Sci & Kinesiol, Statesboro, GA 30458 USA								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:000559343100003	54	Article; Article		
J	Schoenfeld, Melody L.								Nutritional Considerations for the Female Vegan Athlete								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				42	4			68	76		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000405			AUG 2020	2020	According to the top trends in prepared foods 2017 market research report, the number of U.S. consumers following a vegan lifestyle has jumped from 1% of the population in 2014 to 6% of the population in 2017. It is therefore a reality that many female athletes may be considering or following a vegan lifestyle. Although macronutrient and micronutrient needs can certainly be met on a meat-free diet, understanding how to execute a nutritionally sound vegan diet is key. This article will discuss the vegan diet, as it pertains to the female athlete.		[Schoenfeld, Melody L.] Flawless Fitness & Evil Munky Enterprises, Pasadena, CA 91104 USA; [Schoenfeld, Melody L.] Flawless Fitness & Evil Munky Enterprises, Pasadena, CA 91104 USA								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:000559343100008	63	Article; Article		
J	Craig, Debbie, I; Vogel, Tanya								Concussions in Female Athletes: Practical Applications for the Strength and Conditioning Expert								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				42	4			125	131		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000437			AUG 2020	2020	With the significant increase in concussion research and focus in the media, it is important for strength and conditioning coaches and medical experts to be clear on sex differences between how female and male concussed athletes may experience a concussion. To that end, this article offers a review of this current research, along with practical applications of the research for coaches and clinicians who work with female athletes. How should we be working with concussed female athletes specifically to assure their optimal recovery and future brain health?		[Craig, Debbie, I] No Arizona Univ, Grad Athlet Training, Flagstaff, AZ 86011 USA; [Vogel, Tanya] George Washington Univ, Athlet & Recreat, Washington, DC 20052 USA; [Craig, Debbie, I] No Arizona Univ, Grad Athlet Training, Flagstaff, AZ 86011 USA								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:000559343100013	30	Article; Article		
J	Salaga, Steven; Mills, Brian M.; Tainsky, Scott								Employer-Assigned Workload and Human Capital Deterioration: Evidence From the National Football League								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				21	6			628	659		10.1177/1527002520930258			AUG 2020	2020	We test whether human capital deterioration is a function of employer decision making with respect to workload allocation. We examine this question in the context of National Football League running backs, where the structure of nonguaranteed employment contracts has the potential to create divergent incentives for franchises and players. We empirically test how employer-assigned workloads impact changes in player productivity and career length. We find that larger employer-assigned workloads result in larger decreases in future productivity. However, players assigned larger workloads tend to have longer careers. These results suggest deleterious physical effects from increased workloads while also implying hiring decisions are partially based on status or exposure effects.		[Salaga, Steven] Univ Georgia, Athens, GA 30602 USA; [Mills, Brian M.] Univ Texas Austin, Austin, TX 78712 USA; [Tainsky, Scott] Wayne State Univ, Detroit, MI USA; [Salaga, Steven] Univ Georgia, Athens, GA 30602 USA								6							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000542436200004	43	Article; Article		
J	Rebullido, Tamara Rial; Chulvi-Medrano, Ivan; Faigenbaum, Avery D.; Stracciolini, Andrea								Pelvic Floor Dysfunction in Female Athletes								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				42	4			82	92		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000440			AUG 2020	2020	Pelvic floor dysfunction (PFD) in female athletes can have a negative impact on quality of life, athletic performance, and participation in sport. Research indicates that female athletes participating in sports that involve running, jumping, and high-impact landing are at a higher risk for PFD than nonathletic females. The stress and increased intra-abdominal pressure from high-impact forces, as well as neuromuscular fatigue of the pelvic floor musculature, may contribute to PFD in female athletes. Sport coaches, fitness professionals, and health care providers play an essential role in raising awareness about PFD and promoting pelvic floor fitness for female athletes.		[Rebullido, Tamara Rial] Int Hypopress & Phys Therapy Inst, Vigo, Spain; [Chulvi-Medrano, Ivan] Univ Alicante, Alicante, Spain; [Faigenbaum, Avery D.] Coll New Jersey, Dept Hlth & Exercise Sci, Ewing, NJ USA; [Stracciolini, Andrea] Harvard Med Sch, Div Sports Med, Childrens Hosp Boston, Boston, MA 02115 USA; [Rebullido, Tamara Rial] Int Hypopress & Phys Therapy Inst, Vigo, Spain								7							Sport Sciences	WOS:000559343100010	90	Article; Article		
J	Harper, Damian J.; Morin, Jean-Benoit; Carling, Christopher; Kiely, John								Measuring maximal horizontal deceleration ability using radar technology: reliability and sensitivity of kinematic and kinetic variables								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				22	9			1192	1208		10.1080/14763141.2020.1792968			SEP 2 2023	2023	Radar technology has the potential for providing new insights into maximal horizontal deceleration ability. This study aimed to investigate the intra- and inter-day reliability and sensitivity of kinematic and kinetic variables obtained from a novel, maximal horizontal deceleration test, using radar technology. Thirty-eight university sport athletes completed testing for intra-day analysis. Twelve of these participants also completed the deceleration test on a second day for inter-day analysis. The maximal horizontal deceleration test required participants to decelerate maximally following 20 m maximal horizontal sprint acceleration. Reliability was assessed using the intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC) and coefficient of variation (CV%). Sensitivity was evaluated by comparing typical error (TE) to the smallest worthwhile change (SWC). A number of kinematic and kinetic variables had good (ICC > 0.75, CV < 10%) overall intra-day reliability, and were sensitive to detect small-to-moderate changes in deceleration performance after a single familiarisation session. Only kinetic variables had good overall inter-day reliability and were sensitive to detect moderate changes in deceleration performance. The utilisation of this test protocol to assess maximal horizontal deceleration can provide new insights into individual maximal horizontal deceleration capabilities. Future work using this or similar approaches may provide insights into the neuromuscular performance qualities needed to decelerate maximally.		[Harper, Damian J.; Kiely, John] Univ Cent Lancashire, Sch Sport & Hlth Sci, Inst Coaching & Performance, Preston, Lancs, England; [Morin, Jean-Benoit] Cote dAzur Univ, Fac Sports Sci, Lab Human Motr Expertise Sports & Hlth, Nice, France; [Carling, Christopher] French Football Federat, Ctr Elite Performance, Paris, France; [Harper, Damian J.] Univ Cent Lancashire, Sch Sport & Hlth Sci, Inst Coaching & Performance, Preston, Lancs, England								52							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000555185000001	37	Article; Article		
J	Engwerda, Ingrid M.; Lidor, Ronnie; Elferink-Gemser, Marije T.								Performance characteristics of top-level youth judokas in light- and heavy-weight categories								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				15	5-6			783	792	1747954120945160	10.1177/1747954120945160			DEC 2020	2020	Professionals involved in training programs for judokas should have access to evidence-based data on various characteristics of these athletes. In the current study, anthropometric (e.g., body height, body mass), physiological (e.g., power based on vertical jump height, maximal handgrip strength), and psychological (e.g., athletic coping skills) characteristics of judokas were examined. The judokas, aged 16-21, were classified into two groups: 30 light weight (males = 19, females = 11) and 27 heavy weight (males = 13, females = 14). Four MANCOVAs separated by sex were performed on the anthropometric, physiological, and psychological data. A discriminant analysis was also carried out. Results showed that heavy-weight males outscored their lighter peers on body height (d = 1.88), arm span (d = 1.88), and maximal handgrip strength. In the females, light-weight judokas outscored their heavier peers on jumping ability (d = 1.02) and peak power bench press (d = 1.20). Female heavy-weight judokas had greater body height (d = 1.46), a longer arm span (d = 1.35), and higher scores on maximal handgrip strength than light-weight judokas. The discriminant analysis revealed that 87.5% and 84.0% of the original grouped male and female judokas, respectively, were correctly classified. No differences in coping skills or self-regulation of learning between categories were observed. It is recommended that professionals involved in training programs may consider these differences in data when developing training programs for young judokas.		[Engwerda, Ingrid M.; Elferink-Gemser, Marije T.] Univ Groningen, Dept Human Movement Sci, Groningen, Netherlands; [Engwerda, Ingrid M.; Elferink-Gemser, Marije T.] Univ Med Ctr Groningen, Groningen, Netherlands; [Lidor, Ronnie] Wingate Inst Phys Educ & Sports, Acad Coll Wingate, Netanya, Israel; [Elferink-Gemser, Marije T.] Antonius Deusinglaan 1, NL-9713 AV Groningen, Netherlands								9							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000558572800001	46	Article; Article		
J	Csato, Laszlo								Optimal Tournament Design: Lessons From the Men's Handball Champions League								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				21	8			848	868	1527002520944442	10.1177/1527002520944442			DEC 2020	2020	This paper challenges the traditional seeding regime of round-robin tournaments that aims to create balanced groups. In particular, the design of the most prestigious European men's handball club competition is compared to two alternative formats with equally strong groups via simulations. We find that it is possible to increase the quality of all matches played together with raising the uncertainty of outcome, essentially without sacrificing fairness. Our results have useful implications for the governing bodies of major sports.		[Csato, Laszlo] Hungarian Acad Sci MTA SZTAKI, Inst Comp Sci & Control, Budapest, Hungary; [Csato, Laszlo] Hungarian Acad Sci MTA SZTAKI, Inst Comp Sci & Control, Budapest, Hungary								13							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000558587200001	55	Article; Article		
J	van Hooff, Martijn; Schep, Goof; Bender, Mart; Scheltinga, Marc; Savelberg, Hans								Sport-related femoral artery occlusion detected by near-infrared spectroscopy and pedal power measurements: a case report								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				49	2			241	244		10.1080/00913847.2020.1796182			APR 3 2021	2021	Objectives: Approximately one in five professional cycling athletes will eventually develop a sport-related vascular problem. However, detecting such flow limitation is a diagnostic challenge as the sensitivity of the currently available standard diagnostic tools is limited. Methods: Here we present an athlete with exercise-induced pain and weakness of the left leg. During the physical examination, pulsations of the femoral artery were palpable but less prominent. He was analyzed in an ongoing research project aimed at improving methods detecting sport-related leg flow limitations. Results: During functional testing, the ankle-brachial index of the left leg was moderately lowered. However, results of near-infrared spectroscopy and pedal power measurements were largely abnormal suggesting a severe flow limitation. Conclusion: Combining post-exercise ankle-brachial index, near-infrared spectroscopy, and pedal power measurements as routine diagnostic functional testing suggested a severe arterial flow inflow limitation. Conventional diagnostics encompassing duplex-Doppler echography and magnetic resonance angiography confirmed a femoral artery occlusion.		[van Hooff, Martijn; Savelberg, Hans] Maastricht Univ, Fac Hlth Med & Life Sci, Dept Nutr & Movement Sci, NL-6200 MD Maastricht, Netherlands; [van Hooff, Martijn; Schep, Goof] Maxima Med Ctr, Dept Sports & Exercise, Veldhoven, Netherlands; [Bender, Mart; Scheltinga, Marc] Maxima Med Ctr, Dept Vasc Surg, Veldhoven, Netherlands; [van Hooff, Martijn] Maastricht Univ, Fac Hlth Med & Life Sci, Dept Nutr & Movement Sci, NL-6200 MD Maastricht, Netherlands								3							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000552560900001	14	Article; Article		
J	Gyimesi, Andras								League Ranking Mobility Affects Attendance: Evidence From European Soccer Leagues								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				21	8			808	828	1527002520944451	10.1177/1527002520944451			DEC 2020	2020	Ranking mobility belongs to the indicators of dynamic long-term competitive balance, as it is based on season to season changes in league rankings. If the uncertainty of outcome hypothesis holds at the league level, ranking mobility might increase demand for league games. This assumption is tested by using panel regression models on data of 19 European domestic soccer leagues. Ranking mobility is found to significantly affect average stadium attendance per game, particularly if only the top 5 ranking positions are considered. Results suggest that the closeness of competition across seasons is more important for the fans than within a season.		[Gyimesi, Andras] Univ Pecs, Fac Business & Econ, 80 Rakoczi U, H-7622 Pecs, Hungary; [Gyimesi, Andras] Univ Pecs, Fac Business & Econ, 80 Rakoczi U, H-7622 Pecs, Hungary								7							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000552219600001	38	Article; Article		
J	Schaper, Sten; van der Kaaden, Lisanne; de Boode, Vosse; Savelsbergh, Geert								Visual gaze behaviour during free-kicks in football								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				15	5-6			653	661	1747954120943067	10.1177/1747954120943067			DEC 2020	2020	Visual gaze behaviour, and in particular Quiet Eye (QE), have been found to be important in aiming tasks in multiple sports. The aim of this study is to provide insight into the characteristics of gaze behaviour in a moving condition, that is of football players during the run-up and kick of free kicks. Fourteen skilled youth players performed a set of free-kick trials while their eyes were being tracked. Two QE periods have been determined prior to a critical phase of the kick: QE Target and QE Ball. For the scored trials both the QE Target (M = 886 ms SE = 78 ms) and QE Ball (M = 627 ms SE = 52 ms) duration were significantly longer than in the missed trials, QE Target (M = 488 ms SE = 45 ms) and QE Ball (M = 513 ms SE = 80 ms). The analysis of the number of fixations suggests that one fixation on a target is the optimum, and more (2-3x) or no fixations resulted in less accurate shooting. These results provide insight into the characteristics of football shooting that can be incorporated into shooting practice in order to improve performance.		[Schaper, Sten; Savelsbergh, Geert] Vrije Univ Amsterdam, Fac Behav & Movement Sci, Dept Human Movement Sci, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [van der Kaaden, Lisanne; de Boode, Vosse] AFC Ajax, Sport Sci Ctr, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Savelsbergh, Geert] Inst Brain & Behav, Dept Motor Learning & Performance, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Savelsbergh, Geert] Amsterdam Univ Appl Sci, Fac Sports & Nutr, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Schaper, Sten] Vrije Univ Amsterdam, Fac Behav & Movement Sci, Dept Human Movement Sci, Amsterdam, Netherlands								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000552222100001	53	Article; Article		
J	Li, Yumeng; Koldenhoven, Rachel M.; Jiwan, Nigel C.; Zhan, Jieyun; Liu, Ting								Trunk and shoulder kinematics of rowing displayed by Olympic athletes								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				22	9			1095	1107		10.1080/14763141.2020.1781238			SEP 2 2023	2023	The purpose of this study was to assess the effects of stroke rate and sex on trunk and shoulder kinematics of Olympic athletes during rowing on an ergometer. Fifty-eight participants (31 females and 27 males) from the Chinese National Rowing Team were recruited. Trunk (i.e., the pelvis, lumbar and thoracic spine) and shoulder kinematics were measured using an inertial measurement unit system for three stroke rates (18, 26, and 32 strokes/min). Range of motion and angles at the catch and finish were assessed using mixed model ANOVA and correlation analyses with rowing power. Range of motion increased significantly at higher rates for both female and male athletes. This may be a strategy used by athletes when dealing with higher demand for power during training, because a greater range of motion with a longer stroke length could reduce the demand for force generation and possibly delay fatigue. Female rowers exhibited greater range of motion in the lumbar spine, thorax and shoulders than males due to more extended positions at the finish. The sex-related kinematic differences may be attributed to differences in body size, muscle strength and endurance. Practitioners are recommended to consider these factors when developing rowing techniques and providing training suggestions.		[Li, Yumeng; Koldenhoven, Rachel M.; Jiwan, Nigel C.; Zhan, Jieyun; Liu, Ting] Texas State Univ, Dept Hlth & Human Performance, San Marcos, TX 78666 USA; [Li, Yumeng] Texas State Univ, Dept Hlth & Human Performance, San Marcos, TX 78666 USA								20							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000549049300001	33	Article; Article		
J	Junge, Nicklas; Morin, Jean-Benoit; Nybo, Lars								Leg extension force-velocity imbalance has negative impact on sprint performance in ball-game players								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				22	8			1027	1040		10.1080/14763141.2020.1775877			AUG 3 2023	2023	Ballistic actions are imperative in sports where performance depends on power production across a relevant range of contraction- and movement velocities. Force-velocity-power ((FvP) over bar) profiling provides information regarding neuromuscular capabilities and vertical performances, but knowledge regarding its associative value towards horizontal movements is scarce. Therefore, we conducted (FvP) over bar profiling and analysed associations with uni- and multidirectional ballistic performance tasks in 27 international- to national-level athletes (18.9 +/- 2.6 years, 182.9 +/- 7.1 cm and 79.2 +/- 11.9 kg). Low to moderate correlations were observed between theoretical maximal power ((P) over bar max) and horizontal acceleration (R = -0.43), speed (R = -0.64), sprint (R = -0.60) and agility (R = -0.59) performances. Force-velocity imbalance (Fv(IMB)) significantly (P <= 0.05) strengthened the correlations towards sprinting ability (from -0.60 to -0.74) and agility (from -0.59 to -0.68), however, both correlations remaining weaker than for jumping performances (R = 0.78-0.86). In conclusion,FvP?profiling provides information of importance for horizontal and vertical performances with a significant positive effect of (P) over bar max, but negative effect of Fv(IMB). Assessment of lower-extremity neuromuscular capabilities through (FvP) over bar profiling and associated development of training programmes targeting compensation of either force- or velocity deficit may benefit the ability to utilise a given power potential.		[Junge, Nicklas; Nybo, Lars] Univ Copenhagen, Fac Sci, Dept Integrat Physiol, Copenhagen, Denmark; [Junge, Nicklas] Stenhus Test Ctr, Copenhagen, Denmark; [Morin, Jean-Benoit] Univ Cote Azur, Fac Sport Sci, Lab Human Motric Expertise Sports & Hlth, Nice, France; [Junge, Nicklas] Univ Copenhagen, Fac Sci, Dept Integrat Physiol, Copenhagen, Denmark; [Junge, Nicklas] Stenhus Test Ctr, Copenhagen, Denmark								7							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000549717900001	37	Article; Article		
J	Chun, Seungwhan; Park, Sang Soo								Home Advantage in Skeleton: Familiarity versus Crowd Support								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				22	1			3	26	1527002520936737	10.1177/1527002520936737			JAN 2021	2021	The paper investigates home advantages in skeleton. Our study broadens home advantage literature by providing models and estimation strategy applicable to other individual sports with tracks or courses such as biathlon, cross country skiing, etc. We identified two sources of advantages: support from the crowd; familiarity with the track. In the Olympics and the World Championships, home advantage leads to about a 0.510% improvement in performance on average, of which 0.110%-points are due to crowd support and 0.401%-points due to familiarity. Out-contribution of familiarity effect is common in all six major skeleton series.		[Chun, Seungwhan; Park, Sang Soo] Korea Univ, Dept Econ, 145 Anam Ro, Seoul 02841, South Korea; [Park, Sang Soo] Korea Univ, Dept Econ, 145 Anam Ro, Seoul 02841, South Korea								10							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000548889600001	43	Article; Article		
J	Jost, Peter-J.								"The ball is round, the game lasts 90 minutes, everything else is pure theory"								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				22	1			27	74	1527002520939614	10.1177/1527002520939614			JAN 2021	2021	We model a soccer match between two heterogeneous teams as a two-stage contest where each team chooses its attacking and defending effort for each half of the match. We characterize the optimal teams' efforts as well as the optimal effort allocation between offense and defense. In contrast to the theoretical literature on soccer we show, for example, that the leading team may preempt its competitor in the first half. Our analysis also sheds new light on empirical studies that investigate the change in winning points on the number of ties by showing that this effect depends crucially on teams' heterogeneity.		[Jost, Peter-J.] WHU Otto Beisheim Sch Management, Org Theory, Burgpl 2, D-56179 Vallendar, Germany; [Jost, Peter-J.] WHU Otto Beisheim Sch Management, Org Theory, Burgpl 2, D-56179 Vallendar, Germany								5							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000548898500001	50	Article; Article		
J	Soylu, Caglar; Yildirim, Necmiye Un; Akalan, Cengiz; Akinoglu, Bihter; Kocahan, Tugba								The Relationship Between Athletic Performance and Physiological Characteristics in Wheelchair Basketball Athletes								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				92	4			639	650		10.1080/02701367.2020.1762834			OCT 2 2021	2021	Purpose: This study was aimed to investigate the relationship between athletic performance and physiological characteristics in wheelchair basketball (WB) athletes with different classification scores.Methods: Twenty-six (24 male and 2 female) WB athletes were involved into the study. The participants were divided into two functional categories (Category A:1.0-2.5 points, category B: 3.0-4.5 points) according to the IWBF rules. Shoulder internal (IR) and external rotation (ER) muscle strengths were evaluated with the ISOMED 2000 (R) isokinetic dynamometer. Handgrip strength was evaluated with hydraulic hand dynamometer. Custom ramp protocol on treadmill was employed to measure aerobic capacity. Anaerobic capacity was evaluated with Wingate anaerobic power test in standard laboratory conditions. The athletic performance was assessed by 20 m Sprint test, Slalom Test, and Zone Shot tests.Results: Category B athletes achieved significantly better results in the measurements of shoulder IR and ER muscle strength, aerobic and anaerobic capacity, and athletic performance while the grip strength was found similar in the categories. There was a significant correlation between the athletic performance and shoulder IR and ER muscle strength, and aerobic and anaerobic capacities in two categories. There was no significant relationship between grip strength and athletic performance parameters in two categories.Conclusion: It was concluded that athletic performance in WB athletes with different classification scores is related to upper extremity muscle strength, aerobic, and anaerobic capacity. Additionally, upper limb muscle strength, athletic performance, aerobic and anaerobic capacity assessments to be made will contribute positively to the planning of individual training and exercise programs.		[Soylu, Caglar; Akinoglu, Bihter] Ankara Yildlrim Beyazit Univ, Ankara, Turkey; [Yildirim, Necmiye Un] Hlth Sci Univ, Istanbul, Turkey; [Akalan, Cengiz] Ankara Univ, Ankara, Turkey; [Kocahan, Tugba] Minist Youth & Sports, Ankara, Turkey; [Soylu, Caglar] Ankara Yildirim Beyazit Univ, Dept Physiotherapy & Rehabil, Fac Hlth Sci, Esenboga Campus, TR-06070 Ankara, Turkey								35							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000549065900001	50	Article; Article		
J	Ortega-Rodriguez, R.; Feriche, B.; Almeida, F.; Bonitch-Gongora, J.; Padial, P.								Effect of the Pronated Pull-Up Grip Width on Performance and Power-Force-Velocity Profile								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				92	4			651	658		10.1080/02701367.2020.1762835			OCT 2 2021	2021	Purpose: The objective of this study was to investigate the influence of the grip width on the power-force-velocity-profile, the maximal strength, and performance during a repetition to failure test in the pull-up exercise (PU).Method: Fourteen trained males performed an incremental loading and repetitions to failure test with the PU exercise using biacromial and free grip widths. Power-force-velocity relationship, 1RM, and repetitions completed were determined.Results: The mean grip width used by participants was 20.04% higher in the free grip width condition (p< .001). There were similar results in the 1RM (p= .954), repetitions to failure test (p= .117), and power-force-velocity profile (p> .05) in both grip width conditions. A stronger relationship was observed between 1RM and repetitions to failure test during the biacromial (R-2 = 0.720;p< .001) with respect to the free grip width (R-2 = 0.607;p= .002).Conclusion: Therefore, the choice of a free or a biacromial grip width does not affect the maximal strength, power-force-velocity relationship, nor the repetitions to failure during the PU exercise.		[Ortega-Rodriguez, R.; Feriche, B.; Almeida, F.; Bonitch-Gongora, J.; Padial, P.] Univ Granada, Granada, Spain; [Padial, P.] Univ Granada, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Ctra Alfacar, Granada 18011, Spain								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000549050200001	31	Article; Article		
J	Wallace, Jessica; Schatz, Philip; Mulenga, Davie; Lovell, Mark; Muyinda, Gabriel; Sichizya, Kachinga Agrippa; Mulengag, Joseph; Covassin, Tracey								Cross-cultural exploration of baseline ImPACT Quick Test performance among football athletes in Zambia								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				49	2			165	170		10.1080/00913847.2020.1790983			APR 3 2021	2021	Objective Concussion is a global sport injury; however, this public health issue has yet to be studied across Africa. It is unknown if tests such as the Immediate Post-Concussion Assessment and Cognitive Test (ImPACT) Quick Test (QT) are culturally appropriate for implementation as part of a concussion screening protocol in Zambia or other African nations. Study objectives included: 1) establish that Zambian athletes are able to complete the iPad-based ImPACT QT with respect to language or cultural barriers that may exist, and 2) document baseline neurocognitive percentile ranks among Zambian football athletes on the ImPACT QT. Methods This study was completed with adult premiere league football athletes in Zambia (n = 125) aged 24.48 +/- 5.41. Participants completed the ImPACT QT neurocognitive assessment prior to a preseason practice. Outcome measures were average performance on 3 factor scores: Motor Speed, Memory, and Attention Tracker, presented as percentile ranks using normative data built-into the ImPACT QT. Results Zambian athletes scored nearly two standard deviations below the mean on Motor Speed (7(th)percentile), using North American normative data. However, performance on Attention Tracker (44(th)percentile) and Memory (56(th)percentile) was within the average range. Conclusion Results of the current study show that Zambian athletes are able to complete the ImPACT QT, despite any language or cultural differences that may exist. In addition, preliminary percentile ranks suggest Zambian football athletes have average scores on Attention and Memory and below average scores on Motor Speed. These data are the first to explore Zambian athletes' performance on a cognitive concussion measure.		[Wallace, Jessica] Univ Alabama, Dept Hlth Sci, Tuscaloosa, AL 35487 USA; [Wallace, Jessica] Harvard TH Chan Sch Publ Hlth, Dept Epidemiol, Boston, MA USA; [Schatz, Philip] St Josephs Univ, Dept Psychol, Philadelphia, PA 19131 USA; [Mulenga, Davie; Muyinda, Gabriel] Univ Zambia UTH, Univ Teaching Hosp, Dept Physiotherapy, Lusaka, Zambia; [Lovell, Mark] Lovell HealthCare Grp & Fdn, Pittsburgh, PA USA; [Sichizya, Kachinga Agrippa] Univ Zambia UTH, Univ Teaching Hosp, Dept Neurosurg, Lusaka, Zambia; [Mulengag, Joseph] Football Assoc Zambia, Lusaka, Zambia; [Covassin, Tracey] Michigan State Univ, Dept Kinesiol, E Lansing, MI 48824 USA; [Wallace, Jessica] Univ Alabama, Dept Hlth Sci, Tuscaloosa, AL 35487 USA								3							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000548022100001	22	Article; Article		
J	Ahmun, Robert; Scott, Philip; Jones, Thomas W.; Tallent, Jamie								Sprint acceleration mechanical profiling of international cricketers								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				15	5-6			745	752	1747954120940487	10.1177/1747954120940487			DEC 2020	2020	Sprinting and speed is a fundamental skill and physical attribute crucial in seam bowlers and batters within cricket. The aim of this study was to assess differences in mechanical properties during sprinting between youth and senior international cricketers and between seam bowlers and batters. Retrospective 40 m sprint times and anthropometric measures of 56 international cricketers (19 senior seam bowlers, 7 under-19 seam bowlers, 16 senior batters, 14 under-19 batters) were used to calculate the theoretical maximal force (F-0), theoretical maximal velocity (V-(0)), theoretical maximal power (P-max), slope of the force-velocity relationship (F-V slope), maximal ratio of horizontal-to-resultant force (RFmax), decrease in the ratio of horizontal-to-resultant force (DRF) and optimum velocity (V-opt). There were no significant (P > 0.05) differences in sprint times nor sprint mechanical profile variables between position or age. However, there was amoderatelygreater F-0(N/Kg) (ES = 0.78; 90% CI 0.19-1.34) and RFmax(ES = 0.75; 90% CI 0.11-1.35) in senior seam bowlers when compared to batters. Furthermore, FV Slope (ES = 0.79; 90% CI 0.15-1.40) and DRF (ES = 0.75; 90% CI 0.11-1.35) weremoderatelygreater in senior compared to under-19 batters. When expressed relative to body mass, it appears that senior international seam bowlers show trends towards a more force biased profile during sprinting when compared to batters. These findings will help coaches to optimise physical preparation strategies in youth and senior international cricketers.		[Ahmun, Robert; Scott, Philip] England & Wales Cricket Board, Leicester, Leics, England; [Jones, Thomas W.] Northumbria Univ, Dept Sport Exercise & Rehabil, Newcastle Upon Tyne, Tyne & Wear, England; [Tallent, Jamie] St Marys Univ, Fac Sport Hlth & Appl Sci, Twickenham, England; [Tallent, Jamie] St Marys Univ, Waldgrave Rd, Twickenham TW1 4SX, England								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000548615500001	49	Article; Article		
J	Scanlan, Mark; Harms, Craig; Wilkie, Jodie Cochrane; Ma'ayah, Fadi								The creation of goal scoring opportunities at the 2015 women's world cup								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				15	5-6			803	808	1747954120942051	10.1177/1747954120942051			DEC 2020	2020	Women's international football is growing in terms of popularity, but to date there is limited published research in women's football and even less that describes effective attacking strategies and the creation of goal scoring opportunities (GSO). The purpose of this research was to investigate and assess the factors related to the creation of GSO that led to a Top 4 position Canada Women's World Cup 2015. Video footage of each match (n = 52) from the Women's World Cup (Canada 2015) was analysed using SportsCode Software. The results revealed that the middle third of the pitch was the most effective area for gaining possession and creating GSO. The average time taken to create a GSO was under twelve seconds. The findings of the study can be used by coaches to design training sessions and interventions to successfully create GSO in women's football. The data from the research may influence the tactical set up of women's international football teams and help to evolve the game in the same way that research into the men's game has.		[Scanlan, Mark; Harms, Craig; Wilkie, Jodie Cochrane; Ma'ayah, Fadi] Edith Cowan Univ, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, Ctr Exercise & Sport Sci Res CESSR, Joondalup, WA, Australia; [Scanlan, Mark; Harms, Craig; Wilkie, Jodie Cochrane; Ma'ayah, Fadi] Edith Cowan Univ, Australia & Sch Arts & Humanities, Joondalup, WA, Australia; [Scanlan, Mark] Edith Cowan Univ, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, Ctr Exercise & Sport Sci Res CESSR, Joondalup, WA, Australia								31							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000548559000001	15	Article; Article		
J	Tsakiris, Theodoros S.; Konstantopoulos, Athanasios I.; Bourdas, Dimitrios I.								The Role of CO<sub>2</sub>on Respiration and Metabolism During Hypercapnic and Normocapnic Recovery From Exercise								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				92	3			537	548		10.1080/02701367.2020.1756196			JUL 3 2021	2021	High intensity exercise can lead to depletion of CO(2)from the body (hypocapnia). This disturbance becomes more noticeable during recovery or between seasons of intermittent exercise, putting the subject in a neural fatigue state.Objectives: A possible hypothesis to address this condition would be to provide high CO(2)mixtures (hypercapnic) during the recovery period from exercise in order to relieve hypocapnia.Methods: Eight men (23.8 +/- 1.2 yrs, V?O-2max= 45 +/- 1.9 ml & x25aa;kg-1 & x25aa;min-1) performed cycling exercise at 80%V?O(2max)for 6-7 min. During recovery (23 min) they inhaled hypercapnic air (EXP-21%O2, 3%CO2, and 76%N-2) or normal air (CON-21%O-2, 0.003%CO2, and 79%N-2). Respiratory parameters were collected with open spirometry and heart rate was measured.Results: Exercise caused mild hypocapnia {9.9 mmHg drop of CO(2)end-expiratory partial pressure (PETCO2)} in CON condition after exercise (p< .005). P(ET)CO(2)elevated close to the rest values during the three hypercapnic phases in EXP condition (main effect of conditionp< .001 between EXP and CON), but after hypercapnic breathing it returned to hypocapnia similarly with CON. The ventilatory response (V?(E)& x25aa;PETCO2-1) and the exhaled volume of CO2(V?CO2) progressively increased during and also after ventilatory manipulations in EXP compared to CON condition (V?(E)& x25aa;PETCO2-1: post hocp< .001, V?CO2:pV?CO2:p< .05-.001), and V?O(2)became lower after the end of second hypercapnic manipulation (p< .05 between EXP and CON).Conclusion: It seems that hypercapnic breathing after exercise is not a good strategy to reverse exercise hypocapnia, because of great hyperventilation caused by CO(2)and exercise mechanisms during the recovery period leading to increased CO(2)removal from body. This intervention may also decrease O(2)supply and muscles blood flow.		[Tsakiris, Theodoros S.; Konstantopoulos, Athanasios I.; Bourdas, Dimitrios I.] Univ Athens, 33 Dafnis St, Athens 15452, Greece; [Tsakiris, Theodoros S.] Univ Athens, 33 Dafnis St, Athens 15452, Greece								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000548031000001	34	Article; Article		
J	Kons, Rafael Lima; da Rosa Orssatto, Lucas Bet; Sakugawa, Raphael Luiz; da Silva Junior, Jorge Nelson; Diefenthaeler, Fernando; Detanico, Daniele								Effects of stretch-shortening cycle fatigue protocol on lower limb asymmetry and muscle soreness in judo athletes								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				22	9			1079	1094		10.1080/14763141.2020.1779335			SEP 2 2023	2023	This study aimed to analyse unilateral countermovement jumps (CMJ) performance and muscle soreness in lower limbs, as well as to compare lower limb asymmetry over 48h after a stretch-shortening cycle (SSC) fatigue protocol. Fourteen judo athletes performed unilateral CMJ on each leg before, and after the 5(th)and 10(th)sets over 24h and 48h of an SSC-fatigue protocol. The SSC protocol reduced CMJ performance after the 5(th)set and 10(th)sets, especially in the weaker limb (p < 0.05), but returned to the baseline values after 24h. Asymmetry increased for peak force, peak power, and mean power after the 5(th)set compared to the baseline (p < 0.05) and remained higher for peak force after the 10(th)set (p = 0.019), returning to the baseline values after 24h (p < 0.05). Soreness increased for the lower body at post, 24h, and 48h compared to the baseline (p < 0.05). In conclusion, a fatiguing SSC protocol can result in increased bilateral asymmetries in judo athletes, but after 24h and 48h of the protocol the bilateral asymmetry returned to the baseline values, with only muscle soreness still elevated.		[Kons, Rafael Lima; Sakugawa, Raphael Luiz; da Silva Junior, Jorge Nelson; Diefenthaeler, Fernando; Detanico, Daniele] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Ctr Sports, Biomech Lab, Florianopolis, SC, Brazil; [da Rosa Orssatto, Lucas Bet] Queensland Univ Technol, Fac Hlth, Sch Exercise & Nutr Sci, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [da Rosa Orssatto, Lucas Bet] Queensland Univ Technol, Inst Hlth & Biomed Innovat, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [Kons, Rafael Lima] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Ctr Sports, Biomech Lab, Florianopolis, SC, Brazil								20							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000547124700001	42	Article; Article		
J	Patel, Manan Sunil; Updegrove, Gary F.; Singh, Arjun M.; Jamgochian, Grant C.; LoBiondo, Deborah; Abboud, Joseph A.; Ramsey, Matthew L.; Lazarus, Mark D.								Characterizing opioid consumption in the 30-day post-operative period following shoulder surgery: are we over prescribing?								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				49	2			158	164		10.1080/00913847.2020.1789439			APR 3 2021	2021	Objectives The primary aim of this study was to characterize opioid consumption in the first 30 days after shoulder surgery. Secondary aims were to assess patient expectations, pain tolerance, risk factors for increase opioid consumption, and proper disposal of narcotics. Methods Patients undergoing rotator cuff repair (RCR), anatomic shoulder arthroplasty, reverse shoulder arthroplasty (RSA), distal clavicle resection, or labral surgery were prospectively enrolled. Collected data included demographics, Pain Catastrophizing Scale (PCS), pain tolerance surveys, narcotic use, adverse effects, and disposal method. Results Eighty patients were included in this study. At 28 days, RCR patients took significantly more 5 mg oxycodone-equivalent pills than RSA patients (18.4 vs. 7.5; p = 0.001). Number of days on narcotics did not differ between groups. By day 14, 73 (92.5%) patients had stopped taking narcotics entirely, with 872 5 mg oxycodone-equivalent pills prescribed in surplus. Ten (14.3%) patients required an additional prescription. There was a significant difference in tobacco use (20% vs. 1.4%; p = 0.04), psychiatric history (50% vs. 5.7%; p = 0.0004) and PCS (12.7 vs. 7.1; p = 0.027) in these patients, with PCS of 12.5 as predictive of requiring another prescription. Conclusion All patients achieved adequate pain control, with 60 (75%) patients having excess pills. Opioid utilization differed based on surgery - significantly lower use in RSA patients compared to RCR. Only 13 (16.25%) patients required more than 20 5 mg oxycodone-equivalent pills. Tobacco use, history of psychiatric illness, and PCS were risk factors for requiring more prescriptions.		[Patel, Manan Sunil; Singh, Arjun M.; Jamgochian, Grant C.; LoBiondo, Deborah; Abboud, Joseph A.; Ramsey, Matthew L.; Lazarus, Mark D.] Thomas Jefferson Univ, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Rothman Inst, Philadelphia, PA 19107 USA; [Updegrove, Gary F.] Penn State Hlth Milton S Hershey Med Ctr, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Hershey, PA USA; [Patel, Manan Sunil] Thomas Jefferson Univ, Rothman Orthopaed Inst, Shoulder & Elbow Surg, Philadelphia, PA 19107 USA								9							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000547130100001	30	Article; Article		
J	Ramos, Ana; Coutinho, Patricia; Davids, Keith; Mesquita, Isabel								Developing Players' Tactical Knowledge Using Combined Constraints-Led and Step-Game Approaches-A Longitudinal Action-Research Study								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				92	4			584	598		10.1080/02701367.2020.1755007			OCT 2 2021	2021	Purpose: Using an action-research design, this study examined the impact of combining concepts from two contemporary pedagogical approaches, the Constraints-led Approach (CLA) and Step-Game Approach (SGA), on the development of youth volleyballers' tactical knowledge, as expressed in performance, throughout a full competitive season.Method: Fifteen players and one coach participated in this study, which involved three action-research cycles, each including the processes of planning, acting and monitoring, reflecting, and fact-finding. The first author, who had the role of coach-researcher, collected data using a reflexive diary and field notes between September 2017 and June 2018, as well as eight semi-structured focus-group interviews. Data were analyzed using thematic analysis, in which inductive procedures deepened understanding of the development of the participants' tactical knowledge.Results: Findings suggested that combining CLA with SGA improved tactical knowledge in specific ways. Players progressed from a starting point where they were only able to describe game scenarios, and act without tactical criteria or considering contextual game constraints, to a point where their intentions during tactical actions were shaped by their ability to think strategically and guide their attention to recognize and interpret different constraints.Conclusions: Results suggested that the development of players' tactical knowledge benefited from a mutual integration of different, yet complementary, pedagogical approaches. By integrating SGA and CLA it was possible to enhance players' adaptable thinking using learning tasks involving the manipulation of meaningful constraints that afforded variable repetition and the resolution of tactical problems.		[Ramos, Ana; Coutinho, Patricia; Mesquita, Isabel] Univ Porto, Rua Dr Placido Costa 91, P-4200450 Porto, Portugal; [Davids, Keith] Sheffield Hallam Univ, Sheffield, S Yorkshire, England; [Ramos, Ana] Univ Porto, Rua Dr Placido Costa 91, P-4200450 Porto, Portugal								20							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000547031700001	49	Article; Article		
J	Papic, Christopher; McCabe, Carla; Gonjo, Tomohiro; Sanders, Ross								Effect of torso morphology on maximum hydrodynamic resistance in front crawl swimming								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				22	8			982	996		10.1080/14763141.2020.1773915			AUG 3 2023	2023	The aim of this study was to determine the influence of torso morphology on maximum instantaneous hydrodynamic resistance in front crawl swimming. Outlines of the torso in the frontal and anteroposterior planes were calculated from photographic images to determine continuous form gradients (m/m) for the anterior, posterior and lateral aspects of the torso. Torso cross-sectional areas at each vertical sample (0.001 m) were used to calculate maximal rate of change in cross-sectional area (m(2)/m) in the chest-waist and waist-hip segments. During the non-propulsive hand phase in middle-long distance front crawl, kicking propulsion is negligible and therefore the net force is equal to the drag. Drag coefficients were calculated at the instant of maximum horizontal deceleration of centre of mass during the non-propulsive hand phase of 400 m pace front crawl. Maximal rate of change in cross-sectional area (r= 0.44,p= 0.014) and posterior form gradient (r= 0.50,p= 0.006) of the waist-hip torso segment had moderate positive correlations with the maximal drag coefficient. A regression model including these variables explained 41% of the variance (p= 0.001). Indentation at the waist and curvature of the buttocks may result in greater drag force and influence swimming performance.		[Papic, Christopher; Sanders, Ross] Univ Sydney, Fac Med & Hlth, Exercise & Sport Sci, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [McCabe, Carla] Ulster Univ, Fac Life & Hlth Sci, Sch Sport, Jordanstown, North Ireland; [Gonjo, Tomohiro] Norwegian Sch Sport Sci, Dept Phys Performance, Oslo, Norway; [Papic, Christopher] Univ Sydney, Fac Med & Hlth, Exercise & Sport Sci, Sydney, NSW, Australia								14							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000547831000001	38	Article; Article		
J	Hancock, David J.; Bennett, Samantha; Roaten, Hannah; Chapman, Kyle; Stanley, Caleb								An Analysis of Literature on Sport Officiating Research								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				92	4			607	617		10.1080/02701367.2020.1756198			OCT 2 2021	2021	Sport officials are crucial members of sport. Researchers have studied their roles numerous times, with results often informing sport procedures (e.g., athlete order in artistic sports). As the research on sport officiating spans five decades and several topics of interest, it is important that researchers periodically synthesize the literature.Purpose: The purpose of this study, therefore, was to conduct an analysis of literature on sport officiating research.Method: Guided by previous researchers, we executed four methodological steps including the article search, article retrieval, sample validity, and article coding. These steps yielded 386 articles for analysis, which ranged from 1971 to 2018. We coded the articles based on four main categories: article information, participant demographics, contextual information, and methodology.Results: Key findings from this analysis include a recent influx in sport officiating research, a vast number of publication journals, few studies dedicated to female-only participants, many studies missing relevant demographic information, an over-representation of interactors, and a reliance on quantitative studies.Conclusions: Though many researchers have conducted studies on sport officiating, several articles had poor methodological rigor (e.g., not reporting key demographic information). In the discussion and conclusion sections, we highlight strengths and weaknesses within the field and provide recommendations to guide future researchers and practitioners, to ensure robust research designs and guide applied practice.		[Hancock, David J.] Mem Univ Newfoundland, Phys Educ Bldg,Room 2023A,230 Elizabeth Ave, St John, NF A1C 5S7, Canada; [Bennett, Samantha; Roaten, Hannah; Chapman, Kyle; Stanley, Caleb] Indiana Univ Kokomo, Kokomo, IN USA; [Hancock, David J.] Mem Univ Newfoundland, Phys Educ Bldg,Room 2023A,230 Elizabeth Ave, St John, NF A1C 5S7, Canada								67							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000547432500001	33	Article; Article		
J	Carl, Johannes; Sudeck, Gorden; Geidl, Wolfgang; Schultz, Konrad; Pfeifer, Klaus								Competencies for a Healthy Physically Active Lifestyle-Validation of an Integrative Model								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				92	3			514	528		10.1080/02701367.2020.1752885			JUL 3 2021	2021	Purpose: The model of physical activity-related health competence (PAHCO) provides an integrative and interdisciplinary view on competencies that are necessary when people want to lead a healthy, physically active lifestyle. Given the need to accumulate potential further evidence on the validity of this model through the development of an assessment tool, the goal of the present study was to extend first measurement models on PAHCO.Method: In Study 1, a measurement model with five predictors on PAHCO was tested with 341 COPD patients undergoing inpatient rehabilitation. In Study 2, data from 745 apprentices were used to create an extended eight-factor measurement model. We undertook reliability analysis, confirmatory factor analysis (CFA), and structural equation modeling (SEM) to assess the validity of the models.Results: The analyses showed good results for the reliability and discriminant validity of the factors. Accordingly, the CFA demonstrated satisfactory overall fits for the five-factor as well as for the extended eight-factor measurement model. The associations with physical activity and physical health parameters indicated criterion validity for seven of the eight PAHCO factors. The explained variance of the multivariate models lay between 9.8% and 10.4% in Study 1 and between 9.5% and 21.3% in Study 2.Conclusion: In the present study, it was possible to extract a well-fitting, eight-factor measurement model and accumulate further evidence on the validity of the PAHCO model. Future research should strive for a cross-validation of the measurement model and more deeply investigate the internal structure of the eight factors.		[Carl, Johannes; Geidl, Wolfgang; Pfeifer, Klaus] Friedrich Alexander Univ Erlangen Nurnberg, Erlangen, Germany; [Sudeck, Gorden] Eberhard Karls Univ Tubingen, Tubingen, Germany; [Schultz, Konrad] Clin Bad Reichenhall, Bad Reichenhall, Germany; [Carl, Johannes] Friedrich Alexander Univ Erlangen Nurnberg, Dept Sport Sci & Sport, Gebbertstr 123b, D-91058 Erlangen, Germany								28							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000547415100001	70	Article; Article		
J	Clark, J. Michio; Hoshizaki, T. Blaine; Gilchrist, Michael D.								Event-specific impact test protocol for ice hockey goaltender masks								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				19	4			510	531		10.1080/14763141.2018.1510975			JUL 3 2020	2020	Goaltenders in the sport of ice hockey are at high risk for concussions from falls to the ice, player collisions and puck impacts. However, current methods used to certify helmets only consider head accelerations for drop tests which may not describe all common injury mechanisms relating to concussion. The purpose of this study was to describe the characteristics of 3 events associated with concussions for ice hockey goaltenders. A helmeted medium National Operating Committee on Standards for Athletic Equipment (NOCSAE) headform was impacted under conditions representing 3 injury events. Three impact locations' velocities were selected for each event based on video analysis of real-world concussive events. Peak resultant linear acceleration, rotational acceleration and rotational velocity of the headform were measured. The University College Dublin Brain Trauma Model (UCDBTM) was used to calculate maximum principal strain (MPS) and von Mises stress in the cerebrum. Each impact event produced a unique dynamic response and brain stress and strain values. This demonstrates that a single impact event (i.e. falls) cannot adequately describe all impact events. As a result, impact protocols which assess multiple impact events such as the protocol described in this study should be used to evaluate ice hockey goaltender masks.		[Clark, J. Michio; Gilchrist, Michael D.] Univ Coll Dublin, Sch Mech & Mat Engn, Coll Engn & Architecture, Dublin, Ireland; [Clark, J. Michio; Hoshizaki, T. Blaine; Gilchrist, Michael D.] Univ Ottawa, Sch Human Kinet, Fac Hlth Sci, Ottawa, ON, Canada; [Clark, J. Michio] Univ Coll Dublin, Sch Mech & Mat Engn, Coll Engn & Architecture, Dublin, Ireland; [Clark, J. Michio] Univ Ottawa, Sch Human Kinet, Fac Hlth Sci, Ottawa, ON, Canada								6							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000544822300007	84	Article; Article		
J	Fox, Aaron S.; Bonacci, Jason; Saunders, Natalie								The relationship between performance of a single-leg squat and leap landing task: moving towards a netball-specific anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) injury risk screening method								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				19	4			493	509		10.1080/14763141.2018.1498535			JUL 3 2020	2020	Field-based screening methods have a limited capacity to identify high-risk postures during netball-specific landings associated with anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) injuries. This study determined the biomechanical relationship between a single-leg squat and netball-specific leap landing, to examine the utility of including a single-leg squat within netball-specific ACL injury risk screening. Thirty-two female netballers performed single-leg squat and netball-specific leap landing tasks, during which three-dimensional (3D) kinematic/kinetic data were collected. One-dimensional statistical parametric mapping examined relationships between kinematics from the single-leg squat, and the 3D joint rotation and moment data from leap landings. Participants displaying reduced hip external rotation, reduced knee flexion, and greater knee abduction and knee internal rotation angles during the single-leg squat exhibited these same biomechanical characteristics during the leap landing (p< 0.001). Greater ankle dorsiflexion during the single-leg squat was associated with greater knee flexion during landing (p< 0.001). Ankle eversion during the single-leg squat was associated with frontal and transverse plane knee biomechanics during landing (p< 0.001). Biomechanics from the single-leg squat were associated with landing strategies linked to ACL loading or injury risk, and thus may be a useful movement screen for identifying netball players who exhibit biomechanical deficits during landing.		[Fox, Aaron S.; Bonacci, Jason; Saunders, Natalie] Deakin Univ, Sch Exercise & Nutr Sci, Ctr Sports Res, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Fox, Aaron S.] Deakin Univ, Sch Exercise & Nutr Sci, Ctr Sports Res, Melbourne, Vic, Australia								15							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000544822300006	50	Article; Article		
J	Nielsen, Morten Hauge; Lund, Jan Noergaard; Lam, Wing-Kai; Kersting, Uwe Gustav								Differences in impact characteristics, joint kinetics and measurement reliability between forehand and backhand forward badminton lunges								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				19	4			547	560		10.1080/14763141.2018.1501086			JUL 3 2020	2020	This study identified the effect of badminton lunging directions on impact characteristics, joint kinetics and measurement reliability. A total of 14 badminton players performed 20 lunges in both forehand and backhand sides. Ground reaction force (GRF) and three-dimensional joint moment variables were determined for further analyses. Pairedt-tests and Wilcoxon signed-rank tests were performed to determine any differences between the two lunge directions and intra-class correlation (ICC) and sequential averaging analysis (SAA) were used to estimate the minimum number of trials. Compared to the forehand side, participants experienced significantly larger total GRF impulse (+ 3.8%,p = 0.021) and transverse moment (hip + 63.5%,p < 0.001; knee + 80.7%,p = 0.011), but smaller hip (-7.7%), knee (-18.7%) and ankle frontal moments (-58.0%,p < 0.05) in backhand lunges. The minimum number of trials was similar for both lunge directions, as the averaged absolute differences was less than one in both ICC and SAA. Furthermore, smaller minimal number of trials was determined by the ICC (7.9-8.0), compared with the SAA approach (9.5-10.3). Lunge direction would influence GRF and joint loading, but not on the measurement reliability. These results give important insights to establish performance or equipment evaluation protocols during badminton lunges.		[Nielsen, Morten Hauge; Lund, Jan Noergaard; Kersting, Uwe Gustav] Aalborg Univ, Dept Hlth Sci & Technol, Aalborg, Denmark; [Nielsen, Morten Hauge; Lund, Jan Noergaard; Lam, Wing-Kai] Li Ning China Sports Goods Co Ltd, Li Ning Sports Sci Res Ctr, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Lam, Wing-Kai] Shenyang Sport Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Shenyang, Peoples R China; [Lam, Wing-Kai] Li Ning China Sports Goods Co Ltd, Li Ning Sports Sci Res Ctr, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Lam, Wing-Kai] Shenyang Sport Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Shenyang, Peoples R China								13							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000544822300009	34	Article; Article		
J	Raya-Gonzalez, Javier; Suarez-Arrones, Luis; Sanchez-Sanchez, Javier; Ramirez-Campillo, Rodrigo; Nakamura, Fabio Y.; De Villarreal, Eduardo Saez								Short and Long-Term Effects of a Simple-Strength-Training Program on Injuries Among Elite U-19 Soccer Players								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				92	3			411	419		10.1080/02701367.2020.1741498			JUL 3 2021	2021	Purpose: The aim of this study was to examine the short and long-term effects of a simple strength training program on muscle injury prevention in soccer players.Methods: Twenty-seven U-19 elite male soccer players participated in the study. The investigation was conducted over two consecutive and similar seasons (e.g., the same staff, players, weekly training schedule), the first being the control and the second the experimental season. The strength program was carried out 2 times per week, for 10 weeks, during part of the preseason and in-season. Injury incidence and absence days were compared between both seasons, according to the injury rate ratio (IRR), with 95% CI and the Z test.Results: A lower number of total and hamstring injuries were recorded during the experimental (9 and 2, respectively) compared to the control (15 and 7, respectively) period. During the 10 weeks intervention period, the injury rate ratio (IRR) was lower in the experimental season than in the control season (IRR = 8.12; 95% CI: 1.00-66.03; effect size (ES) = 3.30, large). In addition, there was a decline in absence days per injury and in the number of absence days/1000 h (IRR = 2.44; 95% CI: 1.90-3.14; ES = 1.12) during the experimental season.Conclusion: The results of this study suggest that this simple strength-training program could reduce the muscle injury incidence during its application period in young soccer players.		[Raya-Gonzalez, Javier] Univ Isabel I, Burgos, Spain; [Suarez-Arrones, Luis; De Villarreal, Eduardo Saez] Univ Pablo Olavide, Seville, Spain; [Sanchez-Sanchez, Javier] Pontifical Univ Salamanca, Salamanca, Spain; [Ramirez-Campillo, Rodrigo] Univ Los Lagos, Lagos, Nigeria; [Nakamura, Fabio Y.] G dAnnunzio Univ Chieti Pescara, Chieti, Italy; [Nakamura, Fabio Y.] James Cook Univ, Douglas, Australia; [Nakamura, Fabio Y.] UPE UFPB, Associate Grad Program Phys Educ, Recife, PE, Brazil; [Raya-Gonzalez, Javier] Univ Isabel I, Fac Hlth Sci, Fernan Gonzalez 76, Burgos 09003, Spain								12							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000547431700001	38	Article; Article		
J	Razmjou, Helen; Palinkas, Veronica; Christakis, Monique; Robarts, Susan; Kennedy, Deborah								Reduced acromiohumeral distance and increased critical shoulder angle: implications for primary care clinicians								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				48	3			312	319		10.1080/00913847.2019.1703475			JUL 2 2020	2020	Objectives: The literature indicates that reduced acromiohumeral distance (AHD) and increased critical shoulder angle (CSA) are associated with large and massive rotator cuff (RC) tears which may not be amenable to a successful repair. The purpose of this study was to examine the overall accuracy of these two radiographic features in diagnosing significant RC pathology. Methods: This was a diagnostic study of patients with shoulder pain. To examine the overall accuracy of the measurements, the area under the Receiver Operating Characteristic curves (AUC) were calculated. The validity indices (sensitivity, specificity and likelihood ratios) examined the predictive value of specific cutoff categories of AHD35 degrees. Results: Data of 200 consecutive patients; mean age: 59(11), 117 males were used for analysis. There was a weak inverse correlation (r = 0.46) between the AHD and CSA. The AUCs for presence and size of RC tear and different stages of fatty infiltration of supraspinatus and infraspinatus muscles varied from fair to excellent for AHD and poor to good for CSA. Specificity was high for the cutoff categories of both AHD and CSA (>90%). The positive LRs were large for AHD and small to moderate for CSA. Conclusion: The AHD and CSA were reliably measured in the true AP radiographic view. Both radiographic features (AHD35 degrees) were able to confirm the presence of a major RC pathology. However, the AHD<6 mm, an acquired radiologic abnormality secondary to failure of the RC muscles/tendons had better measurement properties. This information is of value to primary care physicians, sports medicine specialists and advanced practice physiotherapists in their clinical decision making.		[Razmjou, Helen; Palinkas, Veronica; Robarts, Susan; Kennedy, Deborah] Sunnybrook Hlth Sci Ctr, Holland Orthoped & Arthrit Ctr, Dept Rehabil, Toronto, ON, Canada; [Razmjou, Helen; Palinkas, Veronica; Kennedy, Deborah] Univ Toronto, Dept Phys Therapy, Fac Med, Toronto, ON, Canada; [Razmjou, Helen; Robarts, Susan] Sunnybrook Hlth Sci Ctr, Sunnybrook Res Inst, Toronto, ON, Canada; [Christakis, Monique] Sunnybrook Hlth Sci Ctr, Dept Med Imaging, Toronto, ON, Canada; [Christakis, Monique] Univ Toronto, Dept Med Imaging, Fac Med, Toronto, ON, Canada; [Kennedy, Deborah] McMaster Univ, Sch Rehabil Sci, Hamilton, ON, Canada; [Razmjou, Helen] Holland Orthopaed & Arthrit Ctr, 43 Wellesley St East, Toronto, ON M4Y 1H1, Canada								14							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000576717600008	54	Article; Article		
J	Alt, Tobias; Knicker, Axel J.; Strueder, Heiko K.								Assessing thigh muscle balance of male athletes with special emphasis on eccentric hamstring strength								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				48	3			327	334		10.1080/00913847.2019.1705934			JUL 2 2020	2020	Background: Hamstring strength is important to prevent thigh muscle and knee injuries. Different antagonist-agonist relationships of thigh muscle strength are applied to estimate the injury risk e.g. the intersection point of eccentric hamstring (Hecc) and concentric quadriceps (Qcon) moment-knee flexion angle curves (dynamic control ratio at the equilibrium point = DCRe) and the dynamic control ratio (DCR = Hecc:Qcon). Objective: The aim was to quantify the relationships between DCR, DCRe moments and angles as well as their correlations with peak moments and contractional work of eccentric hamstring and concentric quadriceps exercise. Methods: This cross-sectional study included data from 238 healthy male participants of different sports. They conducted unilateral isokinetic tests obtained at 30 degrees/s and 150 degrees/s for the hamstrings (prone) and the quadriceps (supine). Results: Correlations between DCR and DCRe moments were significant, but weak to moderate in strength (R-30 degrees/s(2) = 20%, R-150 degrees/s(2) = 26%). In contrast to DCR (25% <= R-2 <= 46%), DCRe moments (80% <= R-2 <= 86%) showed very strong relations with peak moments and contractional work of eccentric hamstring exercise. Discussion: DCR and DCRe assess thigh balance by using the same isokinetic raw data. However, weak relations became apparent. DCRe moments were stronger related to eccentric hamstring strength and work than DCR. Therefore, the DCRe moment may serve as meaningful measure of thigh muscle balance because increased eccentric hamstring strength promotes dynamic joint stability and minimizes injury risk		[Alt, Tobias] Olymp Training & Testing Ctr Westphalia, Dept Biomech Performance Anal & Strength & Condit, Dortmund, Germany; [Alt, Tobias; Knicker, Axel J.; Strueder, Heiko K.] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Movement & Neurosci, Cologne, Germany; [Knicker, Axel J.; Strueder, Heiko K.] MOMENTUM, Res Ctr Elite Sports, Cologne, Germany; [Alt, Tobias] Olymp Training & Testing Ctr Westphalia, Strobelallee 60a, D-44139 Dortmund, North Rhine Wes, Germany								10							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000576717600010	41	Article; Article		
J	Padron-Cabo, Alexis; Rey, Ezequiel; Kalen, Anton; Costa, Pablo B.								Effects of Training with an Agility Ladder on Sprint, Agility, and Dribbling Performance in Youth Soccer Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				73	1			219	228		10.2478/hukin-2019-0146			JUL 2020	2020	The aim of this study was to examine the effects of coordination training using an agility ladder compared with a control group on physical fitness and technical performance in youth soccer players. Eighteen male youth soccer players (age: 12.2 +/- 0.4 years; body height: 158.3 +/- 10.8 cm; body mass: 45.0 +/- 8.0 kg) were randomly assigned to an agility ladder group (n = 10) or a control group (n = 8). The intervention program was carried out three times a week over six weeks. Before and after the training period, the 10 m sprint, 20 m sprint, dribbling speed test, agility test, and slalom dribbling test performances were assessed. Within-group analysis showed significant improvements (p < 0.005) in 10 m and 20 m sprint performance from the pre- to the post-test for the agility ladder group (-2.39% and -2.10%) and the control group (-2.54% and -1.44%). No significant differences (p > 0.005) were found from the pre- to the post-test in the dribbling speed test, agility test, slalom dribbling test, and skill index. In the between-group analysis, there were no differences between the agility ladder group and the control group in any variable. In conclusion, the findings of this study suggest coordination training with an agility ladder does not seem to be effective to improve physical fitness and dribbling. Therefore, this information could be beneficial to players and coaches for programming tasks during soccer training sessions.		[Padron-Cabo, Alexis; Rey, Ezequiel; Kalen, Anton] Univ Vigo, Fac Educ & Sport Sci, Pontevedra, Spain; [Costa, Pablo B.] Calif State Univ Fullerton, Ctr Sport Performance, Dept Kinesiol, Human Performance Lab, Fullerton, CA 92634 USA; [Rey, Ezequiel] Univ Vigo, Fac Educ & Sports Sci, Campus A Xunqueira S-N, Ontevedra 36005, Spain								43							Sport Sciences	WOS:000575092700019	36	Article; Article		
J	Melchiorri, Giovanni; Viero, Valerio; Tancredi, Virginia; Del Bianco, Roberto; Bonifazi, Marco								Actual Playing Time of Water Polo Players in Relation to the Field Position								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				73	1			241	249		10.2478/hukin-2019-0148			JUL 2020	2020	In water polo competitions, teams play four periods, each period consisting of eight minutes of actual playing time: a total of 32 minutes (Standard Actual Play Time, SAPT). Substitutions are permitted and a player may be substituted several times. The aim of this article was to provide reference data on played time, taking into consideration the field play position of the players. 352 male water polo players of 18 different nationalities were studied during two consecutive FINA World Championships. 180 games were analyzed and 1980 measurements of the game Measured Actual Play Time (MAPT) were taken. A time density index (DI) was calculated for each athlete using SAPT and MAPT. No statistically significant differences between the field positions were found with regard to age, as was the case in relation to teams between Game MAPT, Tournament MAPT and DI. However, when looking at the diverse field positions (field players, FP; center forward, CF; center back, CB), there were statistically significant differences: Game MAPT FPvsCB p = 0.03 and FPvsCF p = 0.03; Tournament MAPT FPvsCB p = 0.03; DI FPvsCB p = 0.03 and FPvsCF p = 0.04. In these competitions the water polo player had on average a MAPT value of 17.4 +/- 6.1 min (54.6 +/- 9.5% DI); there were athletes who played 2.3 min (7.1% DI) and others who played up to 31.6 min (95.3% DI). The MAPT in water polo is extremely variable among athletes and must be considered for a correct performance analysis. High-level water polo players require different training strategies depending on their MAPT.		[Melchiorri, Giovanni] Univ Roma Tor Vergata, Fac Med & Surg, Sch Sport & Exercise Sci, Dept Syst Med, Via Montpellier 1, I-00133 Rome, Italy; [Melchiorri, Giovanni] Don Gnocchi Fdn IRCS, Milan, Italy; [Viero, Valerio; Del Bianco, Roberto; Bonifazi, Marco] Italian Swimming Federat, Rome, Italy; [Viero, Valerio] Univ Roma Tor Vergata, Fac Med & Surg, Sch Sport & Exercise Sci, Via Montpellier 1, I-00133 Rome, Italy; [Tancredi, Virginia] Univ Roma Tor Vergata, Dept Syst Med, Rome, Italy; [Tancredi, Virginia] Univ Roma Tor Vergata, Ctr Space BioMed, Rome, Italy; [Bonifazi, Marco] Univ Siena, Dept Med Surg & Neurosci, Siena, Italy; [Viero, Valerio] Via Braies 64, I-00124 Rome, Italy								10							Sport Sciences	WOS:000575092700022	38	Article; Article		
J	Koklu, Yusuf; Alemdaroglu, Utku; Demirhan, Ramazan; Arslan, Yunus								A Comparison of Incremental Running Field and Treadmill Tests in Young Soccer Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				73	1			193	201		10.2478/hukin-2019-0143			JUL 2020	2020	The purpose of this study was to compare the incremental running tests performed by young soccer players on a treadmill (Tr) and in the field (FTcod: 100 m change of direction and FTcir: 100 m circle). Nineteen players (average age 17.4 +/- 1.1 years; body height 172.0 +/- 5.7 cm; body mass 68.9 +/- 6.7 kg) volunteered to perform incremental Tr , FTcod and FTcir running tests. In all three tests, players ran for 3 min at 8, 10, 12 and 14 km.h(-1) and were given a 1 min rest interval between subsequent stages. Blood lactate concentrations (La-) were measured at 1 min rest intervals and the heart rate (HR) responses of players were recorded during the tests. After a 5 min recovery period, the second part of the test started; players ran at 15 km.h(-1) with velocity increments of 1 km.h(-1) every 1 min until exhaustion. This part was performed to determine maximum HR, maximum La- and the players' final velocities. The results showed that players had significantly lower La- (F = 6.93, p = 0.07, eta(2) = 0.46, 95%CI(TR-FTcir) -1.91/-0.34, 95%CI(TR-FTcod)= -1.59/-0.05) and HR (F = 9.08, p = 0.02, eta(2) = 0.53, 95%CI(TR-FTcir) = -6.98/-1.68, 95%CI(TR-FTcod)= -7.19/1.08) responses in the Tr test than in the FTcir and FTcod tests at 14 km.h(-1). It was also found that players completed the Tr test (F = 58.22, p = 0.00, eta(2) = 0.87) at higher final running velocities than the FTcir (95%CI(TR-FTcir) = 1.67/2.78) and FTcod (95%CI(TR-FTcod)= 1.69/2.85) tests. In conclusion, when coaches or sports scientists plan to train at higher running velocities or according to the final velocity in the test, it is advisable to carry out testing in the circumstances under which training will be carried out (in the field or on a treadmill).		[Koklu, Yusuf; Alemdaroglu, Utku; Demirhan, Ramazan; Arslan, Yunus] Pamukkale Univ, Fac Sport Sci, KINIKLI Kampusu, Denizli, Turkey; [Koklu, Yusuf] Pamukkale Univ, Fac Sport Sci, KINIKLI Kampusu, Denizli, Turkey								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:000575092700027	25	Article; Article		
J	Fernandes, Tiago; Camerino, Oleguer; Garganta, Julio; Hileno, Raul; Barreira, Daniel								How do Elite Soccer Teams Perform to Ball Recovery? Effects of Tactical Modelling and Contextual Variables on the Defensive Patterns of Play								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				73	1			165	179		10.2478/hukin-2019-0141			JUL 2020	2020	Researchers in soccer match analysis have been using limited procedures to express the dynamics of the game and mainly focus on the attack. Therefore, the aims of this paper were to detect the successful teams' ball recovery defensive patterns of play and study the influence of tactical modelling, halves, match status, opponent quality and stage competition on those patterns. The sample consisted of 1323 situations of defensive ball possession of the semifinalist teams from the 2014 FIFA World Cup play-offs, which was collected by a valid and reliable observational instrument (Soccer-Defence). The Kruskal-Wallis H, Mann-Whitney U, Chi-square, Z-, multinomial logistic regression tests and sequential analysis (p < .05; z > 1.96) were used accordingly to test the differences and associations among and within teams of tactical modelling, tactical-technical behaviours and contextual variables to ball recovery. We found that among teams ball recovery differed in duration; H(3) = 14.958, p = .002. Germany were more likely to perform ball recovery by the goalkeeper than Argentina (p = .04; OR = 0.47) or the Netherlands (p < .05; OR = 0.50). Nevertheless, Brazil was the least likely to concede a shot off goal. Teams facing lower-ranked opponents were 0.63 times less likely to perform ball recovery by interception (p <.001). Additionally, sequential analysis illustrated that teams varied between central and lateral high-pressure zones before ball recovery in lower zones of the field. Finally, coaches could use such findings to design training exercises, create their own style of play, and set strategies.		[Fernandes, Tiago; Garganta, Julio; Barreira, Daniel] Univ Porto, Fac Sport, Ctr Res Innovat & Intervent Sport CIFI2D, R Dr Placido da Costa 91, P-4200450 Porto, Portugal; [Camerino, Oleguer; Hileno, Raul] Univ Lleida, Natl Inst Phys Educ Catalonia INEFC, Lleida, Spain; [Barreira, Daniel] Futbol Club Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain; [Fernandes, Tiago] Univ Porto, Fac Sport, Ctr Res Innovat & Intervent Sport CIFI2D, R Dr Placido da Costa 91, P-4200450 Porto, Portugal								17							Sport Sciences	WOS:000575092700016	33	Article; Article		
J	Arturo Gomez-Landero, Luis; Miguel Frias-Menacho, Juan								Analysis of Morphofunctional Variables Associated with Performance in Crossfit® Competitors								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				73	1			83	91		10.2478/hukin-2019-0134			JUL 2020	2020	CrossFit (R) is a competitive sport and fitness modality characterized by multiple physical capabilities and multi-joint movements. This study aimed to analyse and classify variables related to CrossFit (R) competitors' specific performance. Fifteen male CrossFit (R) competitors were selected (n = 15; 30.57 +/- 5.5 years; 1.76 +/- 0.06 m; 78.55 +/- 9.12 kg). Mean values were obtained for body mass index (25.3 +/- 2.14 kg/m2), 4 skinfolds, 1 repetition maximum in the squat (137.60 +/- 19.65 kg) and the bench press (101.67 +/- 10.64 kg), maximum pull-ups (18.87 +/- 5.05), sit-ups in 60 s (46.60 +/- 4.22), peak power in the countermovement jump (3908.04 +/- 423.68 W), VO2max with a shuttle run test (47.70 +/- 4.79 ml kg-1.min-1), and time in the Workout of the Day (WOD) "Fran" (337.13 +/- 119.19 s) and "Donkey Kong" (417.47 +/- 98.44 s) components. Principal component analysis was conducted to classify variables and to select those most related to each new component ("strength and muscle mass", "adiposity" and "aerobic capacity"). The correlation matrix was analysed, indicating significant correlations between "Donkey Kong" and VO2max (r = -.675; p < .01), suprailiac skinfold (r = .713; p < .01) and sit-ups (r = -.563; p < .05); and between "Fran" and squat (r = -.528; p < .05). Three important components characterizing CrossFit (R) competitors were identified: "strength and muscle mass", low "adiposity" and "aerobic capacity". Significant relationships between morphofunctional variables and Crossfit (R) performance were found in Crossfit (R) competitors.		[Arturo Gomez-Landero, Luis] Pablo de Olavide Univ, Dept Sport & Comp Sci, Seville, Spain; [Miguel Frias-Menacho, Juan] Pablo de Olavide Univ, Seville, Spain; [Arturo Gomez-Landero, Luis] Calle Fernando de Magallanes 12, Seville 41089, Spain								15							Sport Sciences	WOS:000575092700008	30	Article; Article		
J	Moya-Ramon, Manuel; Nakamura, Fabio Yuzo; Teixeira, Anderson Santiago; Granacher, Urs; Javier Santos-Rosa, Francisco; Sanz-Rivas, David; Fernandez-Fernandez, Jaime								Effects of Resisted vs. Conventional Sprint Training on Physical Fitness in Young Elite Tennis Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				73	1			181	192		10.2478/hukin-2019-0142			JUL 2020	2020	This study aimed to compare the effects of 6-week resisted sprint (RST) versus conventional (unresisted) sprint training (CG) on sprint time, change of direction (COD) speed, repeated sprint ability (RSA) and jump performance (countermovement jump (CMJ) and standing long jump (SLJ)) in male young tennis players. Twenty players (age: 16.5 +/- 0.3 years; body mass: 72.2 +/- 5.5 kg; body height: 180.6 +/- 4.6 cm) were randomly assigned to one of the two groups: RST (n = 10) and CG (n = 10). The training program was similar for both groups consisting of acceleration and deceleration exercises at short distances (3-4 m), and speed and agility drills. The RST group used weighted vests or elastic cords during the exercises. After 6 weeks of intervention, both training regimes resulted in small-to-moderate improvements in acceleration and sprint ability (5, 10, 20 m), SLJ and CMJ performances, COD pivoting on both, the non-dominant (moderate effect) and the dominant (small effect) foot, and the percentage of decrement (small effects) during a RSA test. Between-group comparisons showed that the SLJ (Delta = 2.0%) and 5 m sprint time (Delta = 1.1%) improved more in the RST group compared with the CG group. This study showed that 6 weeks of RST or unresisted training are time-efficient training regimes for physical improvements in young male tennis players.		[Moya-Ramon, Manuel] Miguel Hernandez Univ, Dept Sports Sci, Elche, Spain; [Nakamura, Fabio Yuzo] G dAnnunzio Univ Chieti Pescara, Dept Med & Aging Sci, Chieti, Italy; [Nakamura, Fabio Yuzo] James Cook Univ, Coll Healthcare Sci, Townsville, Qld, Australia; [Nakamura, Fabio Yuzo] Associate Grad Program Phys Educ UPE UFPB, Joao Pessoa, Paraiba, Brazil; [Teixeira, Anderson Santiago] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Sports Ctr, Phys Efft Lab, Florianopolis, SC, Brazil; [Teixeira, Anderson Santiago] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Sports Ctr, Res Grp Dev Football & Futsal, Florianopolis, SC, Brazil; [Granacher, Urs] Univ Potsdam, Div Training & Movement Sci, Res Focus Cognit Sci, Potsdam, Germany; [Javier Santos-Rosa, Francisco] Pablo de Olavide Univ, Fac Sport, Seville, Spain; [Sanz-Rivas, David; Fernandez-Fernandez, Jaime] Spanish Tennis Federat, Madrid, Spain; [Fernandez-Fernandez, Jaime] Univ Leon, Dept Phys Act & Sport Sci, Campus Vegazana S-N, Leon 24071, Spain; [Fernandez-Fernandez, Jaime] Univ Leon, Dept Phys Act & Sport Sci, Campus Vegazana S-N, Leon 24071, Spain								31							Sport Sciences	WOS:000575092700017	40	Article; Article		
J	Ravier, Gilles; Marcel-Millet, Philemon								Cardiac Parasympathetic Reactivation Following Small-Sided Games, Repeated Sprints and Circuit Training in Elite Handball Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				73	1			115	124		10.2478/hukin-2019-0136			JUL 2020	2020	To compare acute parasympathetic reactivation following usual training exercises, the acute post-exercise heart rate (HR) and heart rate variability (HRV) were analysed. Fourteen elite male handball players completed three separate sessions of 16-min small-sided games (SSGs), repeated sprints (RSs) consisting of two sets of six repetitions of a 25-m sprint with a 180 degrees change of direction (12.5 m + 12.5 m) every 25 s and 40 min of handball-specific circuit training (CT, one brief action every 40 s). The HR was recorded during the exercises; HRV was assessed 10 min before and after exercise. The exercise HR was higher for SSGs than RSs and it was higher for RSs than CT. Comparison of the baseline and acute post-exercise HRV values showed that parasympathetic indices decreased following SSG (p < 0.01 - p < 0.0001; large effect size) and RS (p < 0.05 - p < 0.01; large effect size) interventions. For CT, recovery values remained similar to the baseline (small effect size). The comparison of the acute recovery period between exercise modalities showed that the root mean square of the successive differences (RMSSD) was lower for SSGs than RSs and CT. No difference in any HRV indices was observed between RSs and CT. Time-varying of RMSSD for successive 30 s segments during the 10 min recovery period showed lower values for SSGs than CT for all tested points; the progressive increase in the beat-to-beat interval was similar for all interventions. In conclusion, SSGs caused the greatest post-exercise vagal disruption and it is likely that CT is the exercise modality that least delays over-all recovery. These results might help coaches design better training sessions by understanding athletes' recovery status after completing their conditioning exercises.		[Ravier, Gilles; Marcel-Millet, Philemon] Univ Franche Comte, Dept Sport & Performance, Lab C3S EA 4660, Besancon, France; [Ravier, Gilles] Unit Format & Res Sports, 31 Chemin Epitaphe, F-25000 Besancon, France								10							Sport Sciences	WOS:000575092700011	33	Article; Article		
J	van den Tillaar, Roland; Ball, Nick								Push-Ups are Able to Predict the Bench Press 1-RM and Constitute an Alternative for Measuring Maximum Upper Body Strength Based on Load-Velocity Relationships								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				73	1			7	18		10.2478/hukin-2019-0133			JUL 2020	2020	The aims of this study were firstly to compare the similarity in upper-body muscle activation between the bench press and push-up at similar loads, and secondly to establish a 1-KM prediction equation between the two exercises based upon the load-velocity relationship. Twenty resistance-trained male athletes (age 22.5 +/- 5.24 years, body mass 83.7 +/- 10.7 kg, body height 1.80 +/- 0.06 m) performed push-ups and bench presses with four different loads. Pushups were performed without a weight vest and with a 10-20-30 kg weight vest. Bench presses were performed at 50-80% of athletes' assumed 1 repetition max (1-RM) in 10 kg steps, while a linear encoder measured performance during the exercises. A load-velocity relationship was established as a product of the load and velocity for the push-up and bench press per participant and the equation was used to establish a predicted 1-RM. Mean muscle activation of eight upper body muscles was recorded for each exercise and each load. The main findings of this study demonstrate an extremely large association between the predicted 1-RM loads performed with the push-up and bench press (r = 0.93) in experienced resistance trained men. Furthermore, most muscles showed similar activations between the two exercises with the different loads except the deltoid and biceps brachii muscles. It may be concluded that it is possible to predict a cross-over 1-RM between the two exercises based upon the load-velocity relationship in each exercise, and that training push-ups largely targets the same muscles as the bench press except the deltoid and biceps muscles. For coaches and athletes, the use of this method is a low cost and time-effective alternative for standard 1-RM bench press testing to predict maximal upper body strength.		[van den Tillaar, Roland] Nord Univ, Dept Sport Sci & Phys Educ, Odins Veg 23, N-7603 Levanger, Norway; [Ball, Nick] Univ Canberra, Fac Hlth, Res Inst Sport & Exercise Sci, Canberra, ACT, Australia; [van den Tillaar, Roland] Nord Univ, Dept Sport Sci & Phys Educ, Odins Veg 23, N-7603 Levanger, Norway								14							Sport Sciences	WOS:000575092700001	35	Article; Article		
J	Janikowska, Grazyna; Kochanska-Dziurowicz, Aleksandra; Pokora, Ilona; Zebrowska, Aleksandra								Circulating Inflammatory Biomarkers and Endocrine Responses to Exercise in Female Soccer Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				73	1			73	82		10.2478/hukin-2020-0005			JUL 2020	2020	The objective of the study to determine the effects of graded exercise on the cytokines and insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1), growth hormone (hGH), testosterone (T), and cortisol (C) concentrations in the peripheral blood of female soccer players, and to evaluate if increased inflammatory biomarkers were related to these hormones and performance variables. Sixteen female soccer players (N = 16, age 19.3 +/- 2.3 years) participated in this study. Blood samples were collected at three time points: pre-exercise, post-exercise, and in the 15th minute of recovery, to evaluate morphological and biochemical variables. The relative expression of IL-6 (interleukin 6) and serum concentrations of the cytokines were increased in the recovery period compared to pre-exercise levels (p = 0.03 and p=0.005, respectively). There was a significant effect of exercise on serum hGH level (p < 0.001), T/C ratio (p = 0.001), and C level (p=0.02). Positive correlations were found between: post-exercise IL-1 beta (interleukin 1 beta) and IL-6 (R = 0.84, p = 0.000), and the IL-6 and TNF-alpha (tumor necrosis factor alpha) gene expression during recovery (R = 0.65, p = 0.009), and serum IL-1 beta post-exercise and maximal power (R = 0.68; p = 0.004). Exercise-induced serum C levels positively correlated with IGF-1 levels (R = 0.52 p = 0.05). Negative associations were revealed between post-exercise T/C ratio and IGF-1 (R = 0.58, p = 0.03) and serum free T and IL-1 (R = -0.56, p = 0.04) levels. The low level of pre-exercise genes and protein of the IL-6 and TNF-alpha indicate a lack of inflammation signs in the female soccer players. This study shows significant effects of exercise on hormone levels and pro-inflammatory markers, which could be used to identify the role of female sex steroids on the immune function.		[Janikowska, Grazyna] Med Univ Silesia, Dept Analyt Chem, Katowice, Poland; [Kochanska-Dziurowicz, Aleksandra] Silesian Coll Med Katowice, Katowice, Poland; [Pokora, Ilona; Zebrowska, Aleksandra] Acad Phys Educ, Inst Sport Sci, Mikolowska St 72a, PL-40065 Katowice, Poland; [Zebrowska, Aleksandra] Acad Phys Educ, Inst Sport Sci, Mikolowska St 72a, PL-40065 Katowice, Poland								7							Sport Sciences	WOS:000575092700007	41	Article; Article		
J	Kubayi, Alliance; Toriola, Abel								Differentiating African Teams from European Teams: Identifying the Key Performance Indicators in the FIFA World Cup 2018								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				73	1			203	208		10.2478/hukin-2019-0144			JUL 2020	2020	Soccer is the most popular sport in the world. Despite this global popularity, European teams in contrast to African ones, have dominated the Federation Internationale de Football Association (FIFA) World Cup tournaments for many decades. Therefore, the aim of this study was to examine the performance indicators that differentiated between African and European teams in the 2018 FIFA World Cup. Thirty matches played by five European (n = 15) and five African teams (n = 15) from the group stages of the World Cup were analysed using the InStat video system. The results showed that European teams had higher averages than African teams on the following performance variables: total shots, shots on target, goals scored from open play and set pieces, ball possession, short passes, medium passes, total passes, accurate passes and corner kicks. Therefore, soccer coaches should take note of these findings as they could serve as a benchmark for African teams to set trends and improve their performance at FIFA World Cup tournaments.		[Kubayi, Alliance; Toriola, Abel] Tshwane Univ Technol, Dept Sport Rehabil & Dent Sci, ZA-0001 Pretoria, South Africa; [Kubayi, Alliance] Tshwane Univ Technol, Dept Sport Rehabil & Dent Sci, ZA-0001 Pretoria, South Africa								16							Sport Sciences	WOS:000575092700028	21	Article; Article		
J	Wylegala, Adam; Pilch, Jan; Bolek, Bartlomiej; Sedziak-Marcinek, Bogumila; Wylegala, Edward								Does Oxygen Uptake Before Physical Exercise Affect Tear Osmolarity?								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				73	1			297	304		10.2478/hukin-2019-0118			JUL 2020	2020	Recently, it has been reported that tear osmolarity (Tosm) is correlated with plasma osmolarity and will increase during exertion. We aimed to assess whether inhaling oxygen-enriched air between exercises could significantly change the Tosm value. Thirty men aged 24.9 years were included in the study. A cycloergometer was used to perform the exercise protocol. We recorded the participants' Tosm (mOsm/L), heart rate (HR, beats/minute), oxygen saturation, and blood pressure values. After the first exhaustive exercise (T1), participants inhaled oxygen in the experimental group and a placebo in the control group. After the second exercise (T2), another set of measurements was obtained. The Tosm value before exercise was 297.4 +/- 1.21 and 296.53 +/- 1.11 mOsm/L (p = 0.61718) and the HR was 72.6 +/- 2.59 and 73 +/- 2.59 beats/minute (p = 0.39949) in the study and the control group, respectively. At T1, Tosm was 303.67 +/- 1.25 and 302.2 +/- 1.25 mOsm/L (p = 0.41286) and the HR reached 178.04 +/- 2.60 and 176.4 +/- 2.60 beats/minute (p = 0.65832), respectively. At T2, Tosm in the study group reached 305.73 +/- 0.86 mOsm/L (correlation with the use of oxygen: r = -0.3818), and in the control group, it was 308.4 +/- 0.86 mOsm/L (p = 0.0373), while the HR reached 172.20 +/- 2.53 beats/minute in the study group and 178.2 +/- 2.53 beats/minute in the control group (p = 0.057). It was concluded that inhaling oxygen before and after exercise could increase the rate of recovery after exhaustive exercise.		[Wylegala, Adam; Bolek, Bartlomiej; Sedziak-Marcinek, Bogumila; Wylegala, Edward] Railway Hosp, Ophthalmol Dept, Katowice, Poland; [Wylegala, Adam; Bolek, Bartlomiej; Sedziak-Marcinek, Bogumila; Wylegala, Edward] Zabrze Med Univ Silesia, Sch Med 2, Div Dent, Silesia, Poland; [Pilch, Jan] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Chair Physiol Med Sci, Katowice, Poland; [Wylegala, Adam] Railway Hosp, Ophthalmol Dept, Katowice, Poland; [Wylegala, Adam] Zabrze Med Univ Silesia, Sch Med 2, Div Dent, Silesia, Poland; [Wylegala, Adam] Railway Hosp Katowice, Ophthalmol Dept, Panewnicka 65, PL-40765 Katowice, Poland								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:000575092700026	32	Article; Article		
J	Sugimoto, Dai; Heyworth, Benton E.; Carpenito, Sara C.; Davis, Farren W.; Kocher, Mininder S.; Micheli, Lyle J.								Low proportion of skeletally immature patients met return-to-sports criteria at 7 Months following ACL reconstruction								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				44				143	150		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.05.007			JUL 2020	2020	Objective: To examine the proportion of skeletally immature anterior cruciate ligament reconstructed (ACLR) patients who achieve >90% of lower extremity recovery at 6-9 months post-operatively. Design: Cross-sectional study. Setting: Biomechanical laboratory. Participants: Skeletally immature ACLR patients. Main outcome measure(s): Muscular strength (quadriceps, hamstrings, hip abductors, and hip extensors), dynamic balance (anterior reach, posteromedial reach, and posterolateral reach), and functional hops tests (single hop, triple hops, cross-over hops, and 6 m timed hops) were examined. The primary outcome variable was the proportion of the study patients whose limb symmetry index (LSI) were >90% during return to sport (RTS) tests. Results: A total of 105 skeletally immature ACLR patients who are planning to return to sporting activities (age: 13.4 +/- 1.4 years) were enrolled. The proportion of skeletally immature ACLR patients who achieved >= 90% of LSI in all four strength, three balance, and four hop tests were 20.0%, 65.4%, and 27.8%. In those who completed all test battery (72/105), only 4.2% of skeletally immature ACLR patients demonstrated >= 90% of LSI in all RTS tests. Conclusion: A small proportion of skeletally immature ACLR patients demonstrated >90% of lower extremity recovery approximately at 7 months following ACLR. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Sugimoto, Dai; Carpenito, Sara C.; Davis, Farren W.; Micheli, Lyle J.] Micheli Ctr Sports Injury Prevent, Waltham, MA USA; [Sugimoto, Dai; Heyworth, Benton E.; Carpenito, Sara C.; Davis, Farren W.; Kocher, Mininder S.; Micheli, Lyle J.] Boston Childrens Hosp, Dept Orthopaed, Div Sports Med, Boston, MA USA; [Sugimoto, Dai] Waseda Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Tokyo, Japan; [Heyworth, Benton E.; Kocher, Mininder S.; Micheli, Lyle J.] Harvard Med Sch, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Boston, MA 02115 USA; [Sugimoto, Dai] Boston Childrens Hosp, Micheli Ctr Sports Injury Prevent, 9 Hope Ave,Suite 100, Waltham, MA 02453 USA								14							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000542987700020	65	Article; Article		
J	Matsuura, Yuiko; Hangai, Mika; Koizumi, Keisuke; Ueno, Koji; Hirai, Norimasa; Akuzawa, Hiroshi; Kaneoka, Koji								Injuries and physical characteristics affecting swimmer participation in the Olympics: A prospective survey								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				44				128	135		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.05.001			JUL 2020	2020	Objective: To identify injuries and physical characteristics affecting swimmers' performance. Design: Prospective study. Setting: Laboratory-based. Participants: Sixty-four Rio Olympic candidates (36 men, 28 women), who were high level swimmers ranked among the top 32 in the 2014 World Ranking in swimming. The participants were categorized into the Olympian group (n = 25), swimmers who were consecutively selected for the Olympic team, and the non-Olympian group (n = 39), swimmers who were not. Main outcome measures: Four months prior to the Olympic qualification in 2016, an orthopedist and two physical therapists evaluated injuries and 11 physical characteristics of the swimmers. The prevalence of total overuse injuries, shoulder and low back injury, and physical characteristics were compared between the two groups. Results: The female swimmers in the non-Olympian group had a 53.3% prevalence of total overuse injuries, which was significantly higher than that of those in the Olympian group with 15.4% (p = 0.037). The prevalence of total over use injuries in male swimmers in both the Olympian and non-Olympian groups was 41.7%. Female Olympian group showed that the shoulder external rotation range of motion was significantly less than that of non-Olympian group (97.8 +/- 5.7 and 103.6 +/- 7.3, p = 0.046). Conclusions: In female swimmers, total overuse injuries four months before an important competition influence their performance at the event. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Matsuura, Yuiko; Akuzawa, Hiroshi; Kaneoka, Koji] Waseda Univ, Fac Sport Sci, 2-579-15 Mikajima, Tokorozawa, Saitama 3591192, Japan; [Hangai, Mika] Japan Inst Sports Sci, Kita Ku, Tokyo, Japan; [Ueno, Koji] Nihon Univ, Coll Sports Sci, Setagaya Ku, Tokyo, Japan; [Hirai, Norimasa] Toyo Univ, Fac Law, Bunkyo Ku, Tokyo, Japan; [Matsuura, Yuiko; Hangai, Mika; Koizumi, Keisuke; Kaneoka, Koji] Japan Swimming Federat Med Comm, Shinjuku Ku, Tokyo, Japan; [Ueno, Koji; Hirai, Norimasa] Japan Swimming Federat, Shinjuku Ku, Tokyo, Japan; [Kaneoka, Koji] Waseda Univ, Fac Sport Sci, 2-579-15 Mikajima, Tokorozawa, Saitama 3591192, Japan								10							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000542987700018	51	Article; Article		
J	Romero-Franco, Natalia; Jimenez-Reyes, Pedro; Miguel Gonzalez-Hernandez, Jorge; Carlos Fernandez-Dominguez, Juan								Assessing the concurrent validity and reliability of an iPhone application for the measurement of range of motion and joint position sense in knee and ankle joints of young adults								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				44				136	142		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.05.003			JUL 2020	2020	Objective: To analyze the concurrent validity and reliability of an iPhone application for assessing range of motion (ROM) and joint position sense (JPS) in ankle and knee joints. Design: Cross-sectional study. Setting: Sport laboratory. Participants: Twenty healthy and physically active volunteers. Interventions: All participants performed a ROM and a JPS test in ankle and knee joints, which were simultaneously evaluated with photo-analysis and the iPhone application. Main outcomes measures: A total of 80 angles were obtained with the iPhone app and the photo-analysis and compared for concurrent validity. Reliability was evaluated through re-scoring of images with the iPhone app by two different testers. Results: Very high correlation was observed between both methods for ankle and knee ROM and knee JPS (r > 0.90), and high correlation for ankle JPS (r = 0.71-0.90), while Bland-Altman plots showed absolute agreement for all the variables. Inter- and intra-tester reliability was perfect for all the variables (ICC > 0.81), except for the inter-tester reliability of ankle JPS, which was substantial (ICC = 0.61-0.81). Conclusions: This new iPhone application is valid and reliable for measuring ankle and knee ROM and JPS, although special attention is needed during ankle evaluation to avoid errors. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Romero-Franco, Natalia; Carlos Fernandez-Dominguez, Juan] Univ Balearic Isl, Nursing & Physiotherapy Dept, Rd Valldemossa,Km 7-5m, E-07122 Palma De Mallorca, Spain; [Jimenez-Reyes, Pedro] Rey Juan Carlos Univ, Ctr Sport Studies, E-28943 Madrid, Spain; [Miguel Gonzalez-Hernandez, Jorge] Univ Europea Canarias, Fac Hlth Sci, E-38300 La Orotava, Spain; [Romero-Franco, Natalia] Univ Balearic Isl, Nursing & Physiotherapy Dept, Rd Valldemossa,Km 7-5m, E-07122 Palma De Mallorca, Spain								20							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000542987700019	36	Article; Article		
J	Teng, Hsiang-Ling; Dilauro, Alyssa; Weeks, Courtney; Odell, Christopher; Kincaid, Heather; VanDine, Brittany; Wu, Will F. W.								Short-term effects of a trunk modification program on patellofemoral joint stress in asymptomatic runners								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				44				107	113		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.05.002			JUL 2020	2020	Objectives: To evaluate short-term effects of a four-week gait retraining program using visual feedback on trunk flexion angle, patellofemoral joint (PFJ) stress, lower extremity biomechanics and motor skill automaticity. Design: Longitudinal interventional study. Settings: University research laboratory. Participants: Twelve asymptomatic recreational runners (seven male and five female). Main outcome measures: Trunk kinematics as well as lower extremity kinematics and kinetics were assessed prior to training at week 1 (baseline) and week 2, 3, 4 and 8 (retention). PFJ stress was computed using a sagittal plane model. A dual-task procedure was performed to examine automaticity. Results: At week 8, runners demonstrated 10.1 degrees increase in trunk flexion angle (p < .001) and 17.8% reduction in peak PFJ stress (p < .001) compared to baseline. This is associated with a 16.8% decrease in knee extensor moment and less than 2.5 degrees change in knee flexion angle. Participants also showed 33.3% increase in peak hip extensor moment and small reduction in peak ankle plantar flexor moment. Lastly, runners demonstrated automaticity of the modified skill with a dual-task cost of less than 3%. Conclusion: The gait retraining program is effective to elicit short term changes in trunk position, PFJ stress, and automaticity of the new motor skill. (C) 2020 Published by Elsevier Ltd.		[Teng, Hsiang-Ling; Dilauro, Alyssa; Weeks, Courtney; Odell, Christopher; Kincaid, Heather; VanDine, Brittany] Calif State Univ Long Beach, Dept Phys Therapy, Long Beach, CA 90840 USA; [Wu, Will F. W.] Calif State Univ Long Beach, Dept Kinesiol, Long Beach, CA 90840 USA; [Teng, Hsiang-Ling] Calif State Univ Long Beach, Dept Phys Therapy, Long Beach, CA 90840 USA								13							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000542987700015	38	Article; Article		
J	Conti, Cristiana; di Fronso, Selenia; Bertollo, Maurizio; Robazza, Claudio								A cross-cultural validation of the Attention Questionnaire of Rehabilitated Athletes Returning to competition								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				44				114	120		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.05.010			JUL 2020	2020	Objectives: To culturally adapt the Attention Questionnaire of Rehabilitated Athletes Returning to Competition (AQ-RARC) in the Italian language. Design: Cross-sectional study. Setting: Italian athletes. Participants: We recruited 324 athletes (215 men, 109 women) divided in two samples: 101 injured athletes returning to their first competition following injury, 223 non-injured athletes making their first competition of the regular season. Main outcome measures: The AQ-RARC-IT, the Psychobiosocial States Scale (PBS-ST), and a Concentration Disruption scale. Athletes completed the questionnaires at the end of their first competition. We investigated the construct validity, the internal consistency, and the concurrent validity of all measures. Results: A confirmatory factor analysis (CFA) supported the two-factor structure of the AQ-RARC-IT yielding acceptable fit indices, CFI = 0.930, TLI = 0.912, RMSEA (90% CI) = 0.100 (.076-A23), and SRMR = 0.082. Concurrent validity was evaluated through Pearson's correlation coefficients between measures. Correlations ranged in magnitude from weak to moderately high. Conclusions: Study findings showed satisfactory psychometric properties of the AQ-RARC-IT. The questionnaire can be used for clinical and research purposes. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Conti, Cristiana; di Fronso, Selenia; Bertollo, Maurizio; Robazza, Claudio] G dAnnunzio Univ Chieti Pescara, BIND Behav Imaging & Neural Dynam Ctr, Dept Med & Aging Sci, Via Vestini 33, I-66100 Chieti, Italy; [Bertollo, Maurizio] Univ Suffolk, Sch Sci Technol & Engn, Ipswich, Suffolk, England; [Robazza, Claudio] G dAnnunzio Univ Chieti Pescara, BIND Behav Imaging & Neural Dynam Ctr, Dept Med & Aging Sci, Via Vestini 33, I-66100 Chieti, Italy								2							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000542987700016	48	Article; Article		
J	Tayfur, A.; Salles, J., I; Miller, S. C.; Screen, H.; Morrissey, D.								Patellar tendinopathy outcome predictors in jumping athletes: feasibility of measures for a cohort study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				44				75	84		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.05.004			JUL 2020	2020	Objectives: The main aim was to assess feasibility by testing data collection procedures for a cohort study. Measurements validity and reliability were secondary objectives. Design: Feasibility study. Setting: Combination of remote contact, assessment in clinic and biomechanical evaluation. Participants: 36 jumping athletes (female:17, male:19) equally spread between those with patellar tendinopathy, other knee problems and controls. Main outcome measures: Measurements validity, reliability and feasibility. Results: There was no systematic difference between administration methods for patient reported outcome measures and miscellaneous questions (range of d = -0.32 to 0.26) without any order effect (all p > 0.05) except KOOS-PF (p = 0.02). Questionnaires' inter-session reliability was moderate to excellent (ICCs = 0.68-0.93). Pain maps were 94% matched between methods. Training load recall percentage decreased until week-3 with only 20% maintaining a training diary completing the full 6 weeks. The graded loaded challenge was clinically applicable, biomechanically valid with increasing load through progression and reliable (ICCs = 0.63-0.98). Conclusion: The tested questionnaires were valid and reliable for online use, therefore being suitable for clinical and research purposes. A shorter survey to reduce burden and collecting training load using shorter recall duration should improve feasibility. Biomechanical measures were valid and reliable, and a graded loaded challenge, suitable for further testing, has been defined. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Tayfur, A.; Salles, J., I; Miller, S. C.; Morrissey, D.] QMUL, Sports & Exercise Med, London, England; [Tayfur, A.; Morrissey, D.] Barts Hlth NHS Trust, London, England; [Screen, H.] QMUL, Sch Engn Mat Sci, London, England; [Morrissey, D.] Queen Mary Univ London, Barts & London Sch Med & Dent, William Harvey Res Inst, Mile End Hosp,Sports & Exercise Med, Bancroft Rd, London E1 4DG, England								12							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000542987700011	74	Article; Article		
J	Feland, J. B.; Lesley, Thalman; Hunter, I; Cochrane, D. J.; Hopkins, J. T.								Whole-body vibration and stretching enhances dorsiflexion range of motion in individuals with chronic ankle instability								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				44				1	7		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.04.001			JUL 2020	2020	Objective: The purpose of this study was to determine if WBV performed concurrently with static stretching was more effective than static stretching alone to increase dorsiflexion ROM (DFROM) in individuals with chronic ankle instability (CAI). Design: Controlled laboratory study. Participants: Thirty-nine participants with CAI (history of ankle sprain, a feeling of "giving way" during activity, and a qualifying Foot and Ankle Ability Measure Ankle score) were divided into 3 groups (normative (N), static stretch (SS), and static stretch with vibration (SV)). Participants stretched the triceps surae 4 days/wk for 3 wks. Vibration was imposed at 34 Hz and 1.8 mm. Main outcome measures: DFROM was assessed in a straight and bent-leg position. Results: No differences were detected at any time in the N or SS group, however SS did exhibit large effect sizes with 95% confidence intervals (CI) that did not cross zero from baseline to 3 weeks for both measures. The SV group demonstrated increased DFROM from baseline for both time points and a large effect size with 95% CI that did not cross zero from post tx-1 to post tx-2. Conclusions: Static stretching with WBV increases DFROM in participants with CAI more effectively than static stretching alone. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Feland, J. B.; Lesley, Thalman; Hunter, I; Hopkins, J. T.] Brigham Young Univ, Coll Life Sci, Dept Exercise Sci, SFH 106, Provo, UT 84602 USA; [Cochrane, D. J.] Massey Univ, Sch Sport Exercise & Nutr, Palmerston North, New Zealand; [Feland, J. B.] Brigham Young Univ, Coll Life Sci, Dept Exercise Sci, SFH 106, Provo, UT 84602 USA								9							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000542987700001	54	Article; Article		
J	Han, Bo; Chen, Qiu; Lago-Penas, Carlos; Wang, Changquan; Liu, Tianbiao								The influence of the video assistant referee on the Chinese Super League								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				15	5-6			662	668	1747954120938984	10.1177/1747954120938984			DEC 2020	2020	With the development and advancement of technology, various types of high-tech auxiliary equipment have been gradually introduced into football matches to assist referees to officiate the game. The Chinese football Super League (CSL) introduced the video assistant referee (VAR) in the 2018 season. The purpose of this study is to explore the impact of the introduction of VAR on football matches and on referees' performance. This study compared the data of all 240 games without VAR in the season 2017 and all 240 games with VAR in the season 2018 using Generalized Linear Model (GLM) and means comparison. The following match variables were considered: goals, penalties, red cards, yellow cards, fouls, offsides, playing time in the first half, playing time in the second half and total playing time. The study found that: 1) After the introduction of VAR, the number of offsides and fouls in the Chinese Super League dropped significantly (p < .001); 2) the playing time in the first and second half and the total playing time increased significantly(p < .001); 3) after the introduction of VAR, the home team advantage decreased slightly. The research result can help to better understand the impact of VAR on professional football, especially on the Chinese football Super League, it can also help referees to optimize their refereeing strategy.		[Han, Bo; Wang, Changquan; Liu, Tianbiao] Beijing Normal Univ, Coll PE & Sports, Beijing 100875, Peoples R China; [Chen, Qiu] Peking Univ, Natl Sch Dev, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Lago-Penas, Carlos] Univ Vigo, Fac Educ & Sports Sci, Pontevedra, Spain; [Liu, Tianbiao] Beijing Normal Univ, Coll PE & Sports, Beijing 100875, Peoples R China								64							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000544717300001	36	Article; Article		
J	Barkoukis, Vassilis; Chatzisarantis, Nikos; Hagger, Martin S.								Effects of a School-Based Intervention on Motivation for Out-of-School Physical Activity Participation								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				92	3			477	491		10.1080/02701367.2020.1751029			JUL 3 2021	2021	Purpose: We tested the effects of an autonomy-supportive intervention in physical education (PE) on high-school students' autonomous motivation in PE, and their autonomous motivation, intentions, and physical activity (PA) behavior in a leisure time guided by the trans-contextual model.Method: PE classes in two schools were assigned to receive either an autonomy-supportive intervention and/or a control intervention via random allocation by the school. The PE teacher of the school assigned to the autonomy-supportive intervention was trained to provide autonomy support while the PE teacher of the school assigned to the control intervention received no training. Students (N = 256) in all classes completed measures of perceived teacher autonomy support, autonomous motivation in PE and leisure time, and beliefs, intentions, and PA in leisure time before and immediately after the intervention.Results: Results revealed direct effects of the autonomy-supportive intervention on changes in perceived autonomy support. However, there were no direct intervention effects on change in intentions and PA behavior. The intervention also had indirect effects on changes in autonomous motivation in PE and leisure time. Additionally, change in perceived autonomy support had direct effects on change in autonomous motivation in PE and indirect effects on change in leisure-time autonomous motivation. Changes in autonomous motivation in leisure time had direct effects on changes in beliefs and indirect effects on changes in intentions and PA behavior through changes in beliefs.Conclusion: The study provides valuable information on the effect of autonomous supportive climate on students' beliefs toward PA in PE lessons and in their leisure time outside of school.		[Barkoukis, Vassilis] Aristotle Univ Thessaloniki, Thessaloniki, Greece; [Chatzisarantis, Nikos] Curtin Univ, Perth, WA, Australia; [Hagger, Martin S.] Univ Calif, Merced, CA USA; [Hagger, Martin S.] Univ Jyvaskyla, Jyvaskyla, Finland; [Barkoukis, Vassilis] Aristotle Univ Thessaloniki, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Thessaloniki 54124, Greece								38							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000547113300001	69	Article; Article		
J	Blazer, Hannah J.; Jordan, Cassidy L.; Pederson, Joseph A.; Rogers, Rebecca R.; Williams, Tyler D.; Marshall, Mallory R.; Ballmann, Christopher G.								Effects of Time-of-Day Training Preference on Resistance-Exercise Performance								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				92	3			492	499		10.1080/02701367.2020.1751032			JUL 3 2021	2021	Purpose: The purpose of this study was to investigate how time-of-day training preference influences resistance-exercise performance.Methods:Resistance trained males (n= 12) were recruited for this study. In a crossover, counterbalanced design, participants completed two separate bench-press exercise trials at different times of day: (a) morning (AM; 8:00 hr) and (b) evening (PM; 16:00 hr). Participants answered a questionnaire on time-of-day training preference and completed a preferred (PREF) and nonpreferred (NON-PREF) time-of-day trial. For each trial, motivation was measured using a visual analog scale prior to exercise. Participants completed 2 sets x 2 repetitions at 75% 1-RM with maximum explosiveness separated by 5 min of rest. Mean barbell velocity was measured using a linear position transducer. Participants then completed 1 set x repetitions to failure (RTF) at 75% 1-RM. Rate of perceived exertion (RPE) was measured immediately following exercise.Results:Regardless of preference, velocity (p= .025; effect size (ES) = 0.43) was higher during the PM versus AM trial. However, there were no significant differences in velocity (p= .368; ES = 0.37) between PREF and NON-PREF time of day. There were no significant differences for repetitions between PREF and NON-PREF times (p= .902; ES = 0.03). Motivation was higher in the PREF time versus NON-PREF (p= .015; ES = 0.68). Furthermore, RPE was significantly lower during the PREF time of day (p= .048; 0.55).Conclusions:Despite higher barbell velocity collectively at PM times, time-of-training preference did not largely influence resistance-exercise performance, while motivation is higher and RPE is lower during preferred times.		[Blazer, Hannah J.; Jordan, Cassidy L.; Pederson, Joseph A.; Rogers, Rebecca R.; Williams, Tyler D.; Marshall, Mallory R.; Ballmann, Christopher G.] Samford Univ, Birmingham, AL 35229 USA; [Ballmann, Christopher G.] Samford Univ, Dept Kinesiol, 800 Lakeshore Dr, Birmingham, AL 35229 USA								16							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000547411500001	38	Article; Article		
J	Velazquez-Romero, Maria J.; Padilla-Moledo, Carmen; Segura-Jimenez, Victor; Sanchez-Oliva, David; Fernandez-Santos, Jorge R.; Senin-Calderon, Cristina; Grao-Cruces, Alberto								Trends of Sedentary Time and Domain-Specific Sedentary Behavior in Spanish Schoolchildren								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				92	3			460	468		10.1080/02701367.2020.1749538			JUL 3 2021	2021	Purpose: To examine the temporal trends of accelerometer-based total daily sedentary time (ST) and self-reported domain-specific sedentary behavior (SB) on weekdays and weekends in Spanish children.Method: A total of 560 (50.53% girls) children (4th graders) in 2011/12 from 23 Spanish schools and 462 (48.70% girls) children (4th graders) in 2017/18 from 19 schools across Cadiz participated. Hip-worn accelerometers and questionnaires were used to assess total daily ST and self-reported time in SB modalities, respectively.Results: The objectively measured total daily ST tended to increase in boys on weekdays and weekends. Time spent watching television (TV) decreased during the week and weekend days, while time surfing on the internet increased on weekdays and weekends. Playing video-games increased in boys during the weekends. The trend to increase the time spent on educational activities with a computer during the weekdays and weekends was accompanied by a reduction of the same activities without using a computer. There was a trend to increase reading for fun, talking on the phone and total time in other SB, on weekdays and weekends in boys and girls.Conclusion(s): Spanish boys tended to increase objectively measured total daily ST. Moreover, SB modalities have changed in recent years in children, replacing TV viewing by computer use for both educational and non-educational purposes, as well as by the use of smartphones or other sedentary activities that does not imply the presence of a screen. These findings highlight the need to promote interventions to decrease total daily ST and reduce SB activities.		[Velazquez-Romero, Maria J.; Padilla-Moledo, Carmen; Segura-Jimenez, Victor; Sanchez-Oliva, David; Fernandez-Santos, Jorge R.; Senin-Calderon, Cristina; Grao-Cruces, Alberto] Univ Cadiz, Puerto Real, Spain; [Padilla-Moledo, Carmen; Segura-Jimenez, Victor; Sanchez-Oliva, David; Fernandez-Santos, Jorge R.; Grao-Cruces, Alberto] Biomed Res & Innovat Inst Cadiz INiBICA, Cadiz, Spain; [Sanchez-Oliva, David] Univ Extremadura, Badajoz, Spain; [Grao-Cruces, Alberto] Univ Cadiz, Fac Educ Sci, Dept Phys Educ, Avda Republ Saharaui S-N, Puerto Real 11510, Spain								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000547150700001	38	Article; Article		
J	Kuo, Shih-Yu; Cheng, Kuangyou B.; Lee, Yu-Chi								Differences in Baseball Batting Movement Patterns Between Facing a Pitcher and a Pitching Machine								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				92	3			420	428		10.1080/02701367.2020.1741499			JUL 3 2021	2021	Purpose: Pitching machines are widely used for baseball batting practice. However, these machines cannot precisely simulate a live pitcher's pitching motion. To understand if a batter's movement strategy would be altered due to disparate visual information provided by a pitching machine as opposed to a live pitcher, the present study aimed to compare differences in baseball batting movement patterns under the two delivery conditions.Methods: To examine movement variations and different strategies of each high-level athlete rather than obtaining averaged group performance, single-subject analysis was adopted. Four professional baseball players were recruited to bat around 50 pitches under each delivery condition. Vertical ground reaction forces of the participants' batting movements were recorded. Relative timings of key events and values of several kinetic parameters during batting were examined.Results: When batting against the pitching machine, batters initiated forward stepping earlier (relative to ball release), had smaller loading rate at landing the step, and altered the duration from forward bat swing to ball impact. These results might be attributed to lacking visual cues of a live pitcher's whole body kinematics prior to ball release. Without sufficient visual information, greater uncertainty and incomplete weight transfer affected the batter's decision making and movement execution.Conclusion: The batters in this study did adjust their movement strategy in batting against a pitching machine. With dissimilar batting movement patterns under the two delivery conditions, extensive reliance on training with pitching machines is not recommended.		[Kuo, Shih-Yu; Cheng, Kuangyou B.; Lee, Yu-Chi] Natl Cheng Kung Univ, Tainan, Taiwan; [Kuo, Shih-Yu] Natl Taiwan Univ, Taipei, Taiwan; [Lee, Yu-Chi] South China Univ Technol, Guangzhou, Peoples R China; [Cheng, Kuangyou B.] Natl Cheng Kung Univ, Inst Phys Educ Hlth & Leisure Studies, 1 Univ Rd, Tainan 70101, Taiwan								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000547459400001	34	Article; Article		
J	Amenta, Carlo; Di Betta, Paolo								The impact of corruption on sport demand								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				22	2			369	384		10.1108/IJSMS-01-2020-0004			APR 6 2021	2021	Purpose The article presents an empirical analysis that evaluates the effects of a systemic corruption scandal on the demand in the short and the long run. In 2006, the Calciopoli scandal uncovered the match rigging in the Italian soccer first division. The exemplary sportive sanction of relegating the primary culprit to the second division imposed further negative externalities on the other clubs. Should we prefer the sportive sanction on the team or the monetary fines for the club? Design/methodology/approach We estimated two log-linear models of the demand side (stadium attendance) using a fixed effect estimator, on two panel data set made of all the Italian soccer clubs in the first and second division (Serie A and Serie B) for the seasons 2004/2005 to 2009/2010, considering the relegation of the Juventus as the event which impacted the demand for soccer. Findings Relegating Juventus to Serie B caused an immediate decrease of 18.4% in the attendance for all the teams, both in Serie A and in Serie B, for the three seasons considered, and 1% decrease when all the seasons are considered to measure the fallout of the scandal on the fans' disaffection. Originality/value The effect of corruption in sport on demand is an important issue, and there are few studies already published. As for sports economics and management, our results are of interest for sport-governing bodies - as a case study that can help in designing a more effective sanctioning system to prevent corruption episodes.		[Amenta, Carlo; Di Betta, Paolo] Univ Palermo, Dipartimento Sci Econ Aziendali & Stat, Palermo, Italy; [Amenta, Carlo] Univ Palermo, Dipartimento Sci Econ Aziendali & Stat, Palermo, Italy								9							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000544277100001	47	Article; Article		
J	Andrade, Alexandro; Bevilacqua, Guilherme Guimaraes; Casagrande, Pedro De Orleans; Brandt, Ricardo; Coimbra, Danilo								Prevalence of poor sleep quality in athletes before competition								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				49	2			137	142		10.1080/00913847.2020.1784688			APR 3 2021	2021	Objectives The purpose of this study was to investigate athletes sleep quality before competition and its relationship with age, gender, sport modality, competitive level, competition result, and practice time. Methods The sample was 1010 Brazilian athletes (656 men and 354 women; 511 young and 499 adults), with an age of 20 +/- 7 years old. Participants answered the question 'How would you evaluate the quality of your sleep in the past few days?' Participants rated their sleep quality on a Likert-type scale as follows: 1 = very poor, 2 = poor, 3 = regular, 4 = good, 5 = excellent. Results Young athletes were 2.30 times more likely to experience poor sleep than adult athletes (p < 0.01; 95% Confidence Interval [CI] = 1.47-3.61). Individual athletes were 3.45 times more likely to present poor sleep compared to athletes of team sports (p = 0.00; 95% CI = 2.18-5.48). International athletes were 1.71 times more likely to present regular sleep compared to regional athletes (p = 0.01; 95% CI = 1.16-2.51).Conclusions: Thus, our study indicates that young, individual sports, and international athletes may be at higher risk of poor sleep quality before competitions.		[Andrade, Alexandro; Bevilacqua, Guilherme Guimaraes; Casagrande, Pedro De Orleans; Coimbra, Danilo] Univ Estado Santa Catarina, Dept Phys Educ, Lab Sports & Exercise Psychol LAPE, Florianopolis, SC, Brazil; [Brandt, Ricardo] Univ Estadual Oeste Parana, Dept Phys Educ, Francisco Beltrao, Parana, Brazil; [Andrade, Alexandro] Univ Estado Santa Catarina, Dept Phys Educ, BR-88080350 Florianopolis, SC, Brazil								13							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000549477000001	38	Article; Article		
J	Daab, Wael; Bouzid, Mohamed Amine; Lajri, Mehdi; Bouchiba, Mustapha; Rebai, Haithem								Brief cycles of lower-limb occlusion accelerate recovery kinetics in soccer players								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				49	2			143	150		10.1080/00913847.2020.1785260			APR 3 2021	2021	Objective The aim of this study was to assess the effect of intermittent vascular occlusion (IVO) on recovery following simulated soccer physical demand test in soccer players. Methods Twelve soccer players completed the Loughborough Intermittent Shuttle Test (LIST) in two conditions placebo (PLA) and IVO followed by intermittent lower-limb occlusion. Physical performance (Squat jump: SJ, countermovement jump: CMJ, maximal voluntary contraction: MVC, and 20 m sprint: SP), muscle damage parameters (creatine kinase: CK, Lactate dehydrogenase: LDH), inflammatory parameter (C-reactive protein: CRP), and perceived muscle soreness (DOMS) were assessed before, immediately after (0 h), and 24 h, 48 h, and 72 h following the exercise. Results Following the LIST, a decrease was observed in all Physical performance within 48 h in PLA condition (p < 0.05), compared to PLA treatment, IVO treatment attenuated the decrease of SJ and CMJ at 24 h and at 48 h and for MVC and SP within 48 h after the LIST (p < 0.05). CK and LDH levels increased within 24 h post-exercise in both conditions (p < 0.05), but with a lower level in IVO compared to PLA condition (p < 0.05). Likewise, DOMS values were significantly lower with IVO condition compared to PLA condition immediately and at 24 h after exercise. Conclusion The results of the present study suggest that the application of IVO after simulated soccer physical demand test accelerated recovery kinetics in soccer players.		[Daab, Wael; Bouzid, Mohamed Amine; Lajri, Mehdi; Bouchiba, Mustapha; Rebai, Haithem] Univ Sfax, High Inst Sport & Phys Educ, UR15JS01 Educ Motricite Sport & Sante EM2S, Sfax, Tunisia; [Daab, Wael] High Inst Sport & Phys Educ, Sfax 3000, Tunisia								22							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000549477200001	36	Article; Article		
J	Rosenberg, Samuel I.; Baker, Hayden P.; Rizzi, Andrew; Terry, Michael A.; Tjong, Vehniah K.								Frequency of overtime and consecutive games and their impact on injury rate in the National Hockey League (NHL)								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				49	1			100	105		10.1080/00913847.2020.1782715			JAN 2 2021	2021	Objectives Ice hockey is a high-intensity contact sport that places athletes at an elevated risk for injury relative to other sports. The purpose of the current study was to analyze factors contributing to fatigue and decreased recovery time and their associations with injury incidence among professional athletes in the National Hockey League (NHL). Methods A retrospective review of all injuries suffered by NHL athletes during six consecutive seasons from 2013 to 2019 was performed. Team schedules were analyzed to assess (1) the number of instances with games on consecutive calendar days, (2) the number of overtime games, and (3) the number of overtime games within three calendar days of a previous overtime game. A Spearman's rank correlation coefficient was calculated from this data to assess the association between these factors and injury rates. Results In total, 4886 injuries were suffered by NHL players during the period of study, with the 2013-2014 regular season highest injury rate per 1000 athletic exposures (15.8). The lower body was the most frequently injured body area (25.0% of all injuries), followed by injuries to the upper body (23.7%). In an analysis of the number of overtime games and games on consecutive days and their relationships to injury rate, only overtime games within three calendar days and total injuries were found to have a significant association (rho = 0.19,p = 0.01). Conclusion The weak positive correlation between the number of overtime games within threedays of a previous overtime game and total injuries in professional ice hockey players suggests that overtime games played within a short period of time place athletes at increased risk for injury. Further studies are necessary to address this on an athlete-by-athlete level.		[Rosenberg, Samuel I.; Terry, Michael A.; Tjong, Vehniah K.] Northwestern Univ, Dept Orthopaed, Chicago, IL 60611 USA; [Baker, Hayden P.; Rizzi, Andrew] Univ Chicago, Dept Orthopaed, Chicago, IL 60637 USA; [Baker, Hayden P.] Univ Chicago, Dept Orthopaed, Chicago, IL 60637 USA								6							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000549482100001	48	Article; Article		
J	Mao, Luke Lunhua								Understanding retail quality of sporting goods stores: a text mining approach								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				22	2			330	352		10.1108/IJSMS-03-2020-0029			APR 6 2021	2021	Purpose Sporting goods retailing is a significant sector within the sport industry with the total revenue of this sector reaching $52.2 billion in 2018. Beset with formidable competition, sporting goods stores are compelled to augment their merchandise with service and improve retail quality. The purpose of this study is to investigate retail quality of sporting goods stores (RQSGS). Design/methodology/approach Based on 27,793 online reviews of 1481 stores in the United States, this study used Leximancer 4.0, a text mining software, to identify critical retail quality dimensions associated with sporting goods stores, and further explored the most salient dimensions among different levels of ratings. Findings Customer service and store aspects are the two higher-order dimensions of RQSGS; holistic experience, manager and staff are three themes under customer service, and product, B&M store and online-offline integration are three themes under store aspects. Furthermore, extreme reviews focus more on customer service, whereas lukewarm reviews focus more on store aspects. Practical implications Knowledgeable staff, managers and online-offline integration are instrumental in creating superior retail quality. Sporting goods stores should enhance hedonic and social values for consumers in order to ward off online competitions. Originality/value This study explored retail quality dimensions that are pertinent to sporting goods retailing utilizing text mining methods. This study to certain extent cross-validated the existing retailing literature that is developed on alternative methods.		[Mao, Luke Lunhua] Univ New Mexico, Albuquerque, NM 87131 USA; [Mao, Luke Lunhua] Univ New Mexico, Albuquerque, NM 87131 USA								13							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000544272300001	83	Article; Article		
J	Khodaee, Morteza; Saeedi, Anahita; Irion, Bjorn; Spittler, Jack; Hoffman, Martin D.								Proteinuria in a high-altitude 161-km (100-mile) ultramarathon								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				49	1			92	99		10.1080/00913847.2020.1782153			JAN 2 2021	2021	Purpose Urine dipstick analysis (UDA) is a useful tool in clinical practices. Abnormalities in UDA parameters have been observed as a result of extreme exercise. The exact incidence of UDA abnormalities, particularly proteinuria, as the result of running ultramarathons is unknown. The purpose of this study was to estimate the incidence of proteinuria and to identify the characteristics of those with proteinuria. Methods We conducted a prospective observational study using urine samples from volunteer athletes before and immediately after the Leadville Trail 100 Run in August 2014. There were 33 runners with both pre-race and post-race samples and a total of 70 provided post-race samples. Demographic information was collected as a part of a larger study. Results At least one abnormality was demonstrated in 89% of post-race urine samples. Twenty-one (30%) runners had post-race proteinuria (>= 1+). Serum creatine kinase concentration (CK) was the only variable that was significantly correlated with the incidence of proteinuria in a multiple logistic regression model. Conclusion A majority of runners developed abnormalities in their UDA. Proteinuria was common and found to be associated with serum CK concentration.		[Khodaee, Morteza; Spittler, Jack] Univ Colorado, Sch Med, Dept Family Med & Orthoped, Denver, CO 80045 USA; [Saeedi, Anahita] Shahid Beheshti Univ, Dept Biostat, Tehran, Iran; [Irion, Bjorn] Western Orthoped & Sports Med, Grand Junction, CO USA; [Hoffman, Martin D.] Univ Calif Davis, Dept Phys Med & Rehabil, Sacramento, CA 95817 USA; [Khodaee, Morteza] Univ Colorado, Sch Med, Dept Family Med & Orthoped, Denver, CO 80045 USA								9							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000547314600001	42	Article; Article		
J	Alonso Dos Santos, Manuel; Calabuig Moreno, Ferran; Prado Gasco, Vicente; Cuevas Lizama, Jonathan								The effect of quality and leverage on the image transfer model: the moderating role of involvement								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				22	2			353	368		10.1108/IJSMS-12-2019-0149			APR 6 2021	2021	Purpose The aim of this study is to examine the influence of perceived sponsorship leverage on perceived product quality and the image transfer model, under moderation by fan involvement. Design/methodology/approach A self-report online survey was carried out after the 2018 FIFA World Cup in Russia. Responses were received from 422 individuals in 21 countries. The leverage scale was validated using exploratory factor analysis. Then, partial least squares-structural equation modeling was employed to examine the validity and reliability of the scales and test the structural model. Finally, multigroup analysis was used to examine how involvement moderates the influence of leverage. Findings Attitudes toward sponsorship and purchase intention are influenced by the perceived leverage and quality of the product. The multigroup analysis shows that perceived leverage does not influence the attitudes of individuals with low involvement. The influence of perceived leverage on perceived product quality is greater in individuals with high involvement. Research limitations/implications Sponsors should use collateral marketing strategies to target specific segments of individuals with high and low involvement separately. Showcasing the sponsoring products of brands renowned for their high quality could positively influence the results of sponsorship. Originality/value This article contributes to the sponsorship literature by exploring how sponsors can capitalize on collateral marketing actions. It also contributes to the theory of image transfer by exploring how perceived product quality can influence the effectiveness of sponsorship.		[Alonso Dos Santos, Manuel] Univ Catolica Santisima Concepcion, Dept Adm, Concepcion, Chile; [Alonso Dos Santos, Manuel] Univ Granada, Dept Mkt, Granada, Spain; [Alonso Dos Santos, Manuel] Univ Granada, Market Res Dept, Granada, Spain; [Calabuig Moreno, Ferran] Univ Valencia, Dept Phys Educ & Sports, Valencia, Spain; [Prado Gasco, Vicente; Cuevas Lizama, Jonathan] Univ Valencia, Valencia, Spain; [Alonso Dos Santos, Manuel] Univ Catolica Santisima Concepcion, Dept Adm, Concepcion, Chile; [Alonso Dos Santos, Manuel] Univ Granada, Dept Mkt, Granada, Spain; [Alonso Dos Santos, Manuel] Univ Granada, Market Res Dept, Granada, Spain								12							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000544310500001	93	Article; Article		
J	Valkoumas, Ioannis; Gourgoulis, Vassilios; Aggeloussis, Nikolaos; Antoniou, Panagiotis								The influence of an 11-week resisted swim training program on the inter-arm coordination in front crawl swimmers								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				22	8			940	952		10.1080/14763141.2020.1770324			AUG 3 2023	2023	The purpose was to assess the effect of an 11-week resisted swim training program using a water parachute on the inter-arm coordination in front crawl swimming. Fourteen female swimmers were divided into a control and an experimental group, and followed the same training program, except for the use of a water parachute by the experimental group in specific sprint sets. Before and after the intervention, the underwater motion of the swimmers was recorded using four camcorders and the digitisation process was undertaken manually. The two-way repeated measures analyses of variance revealed a significant increase of the swimming velocity, due to a significant increased stroke rate, because of the significant reduction of the total stroke duration, only in the experimental group. Moreover, their absolute and relative duration of the propulsive pull and push phases increased significantly, while the absolute and relative duration of their non-propulsive entry & catch and recovery phases decreased significantly. These modifications caused a significant increase in the index of coordination. Thus, this 11-week sprint resisted intervention program seems to improve the propulsion continuity and could be considered as an effective form of training, increasing the stroke rate and consequently the swimming velocity.		[Valkoumas, Ioannis; Gourgoulis, Vassilios; Aggeloussis, Nikolaos; Antoniou, Panagiotis] Democritus Univ Thrace, Sch Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Komotini, Greece; [Gourgoulis, Vassilios] Democritus Univ Thrace, Sch Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Komotini, Greece								9							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000545829600001	46	Article; Article		
J	Falcao, William R.; Bloom, Gordon A.; Sabiston, Catherine M.								The impact of humanistic coach training on youth athletes' development through sport								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				15	5-6			610	620	1747954120933975	10.1177/1747954120933975			DEC 2020	2020	The purpose of this study was to evaluate the impact of humanistic coach training on athletes' developmental outcomes. A sample of 148 high school student-athletes between 12 and 17 years old from low socio-economic communities completed questionnaires during their season. The student-athletes were divided into an experimental group composed of student-athletes of 11 head coaches who participated in a humanistic coach training session, and a comparison group composed of student-athletes of 8 untrained coaches. Four questionnaires were used to assess competence, confidence, connection to the coach, and character (prosocial and antisocial behaviours) of the participants. The effects of the humanistic coach training program were assessed using repeated measures analysis of variance models. Results showed that connection to the coach worsened for athletes of untrained coaches. Also, participants from both groups reported an increase in antisocial behaviours at the end of the season, but the athletes of trained coaches reported engaging less frequently in antisocial behaviours compared to athletes of untrained coaches. These findings suggest that teaching humanistic coaching may help practitioners foster positive developmental outcomes in youth sport participants and build positive coach-athlete relationships, while also raising awareness to the use of sport as a tool to promote personal growth and development.		[Falcao, William R.] HEC Montreal, Dept Management, 3000 Chemin Cote St Catherine, Montreal, PQ H3T 2A7, Canada; [Bloom, Gordon A.] McGill Univ, Dept Kinesiol & Phys Educ, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Sabiston, Catherine M.] Univ Toronto, Fac Kinesiol & Phys Educ, Toronto, ON, Canada; [Falcao, William R.] HEC Montreal, Dept Management, 3000 Chemin Cote St Catherine, Montreal, PQ H3T 2A7, Canada								26							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000542388800001	50	Article; Article		
J	Vaz, Joao R.; Stergiou, Nick; Diniz, Ana; Dinis, Ricardo; Pezarat-Correia, Pedro								Postural control is altered in females with excessive medial knee displacement								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				22	7			848	862		10.1080/14763141.2020.1767187			JUL 3 2023	2023	Knee valgus motion observed during landing tasks has been proposed as a predictor of future knee injury. It mainly involves excess motion in the frontal plane and is known to be greater in individuals with excessive medial knee displacement (MKD). This affects postural control during sports manoeuvres. Previous sports medicine-related research suggests that the nature of these fluctuations provide rich and more sensitive information to identify risk of (re)injury. We aimed to investigate the fluctuations of the centre of pressure (CoP) in individuals with and without excessive MKD. Twenty females (12 controls; 8 excessive MKD) were instructed to perform single-leg landing tasks from three different directions. The participants landed on a force plate and stayed still for 20 seconds. The fluctuations of the anterior-posterior and medial-lateral directions of the CoP were determined through the calculation of Sample Entropy. Mixed-model ANOVAs (3 [Landing Direction] x 2 [Group]) were used. We have found that only the entropy of the medial-lateral direction was different between groups. Individuals with excessive MKD exhibited an increase in entropy values, indicating greater randomness in CoP fluctuations. This suggests a decreased ability to adapt to environmental demands that likely result in an increased risk of injury.		[Vaz, Joao R.; Diniz, Ana; Dinis, Ricardo; Pezarat-Correia, Pedro] Univ Lisbon, Interdisciplinary Ctr Study Human Performance CIP, Fac Human Kinet, Lisbon, Portugal; [Vaz, Joao R.; Stergiou, Nick] Univ Nebraska, Dept Biomech, Omaha, NE 68182 USA; [Stergiou, Nick] Univ Nebraska Med Ctr, Dept Environm Agr & Occupat Hlth, Omaha, NE USA; [Vaz, Joao R.] Univ Lisbon, Interdisciplinary Ctr Study Human Performance CIP, Fac Human Kinet, Lisbon, Portugal; [Vaz, Joao R.] Univ Nebraska, Dept Biomech, Omaha, NE 68182 USA								49							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000544918500001	66	Article; Article		
J	Kim, Seungmo; Hong, Sungil; Magnusen, Marshall J.; Rhee, Yoojung								Hard knock coaching: A cross-cultural study of the effects of abusive leader behaviors on athlete satisfaction and commitment through interactional justice								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				15	5-6			597	609	1747954120933405	10.1177/1747954120933405			DEC 2020	2020	The objective of this study was to examine the direct and indirect relationships between abusive coaching behaviors and athletes' satisfaction and affective organizational commitment through interactional justice and to explore the differences in the relationships between Hong Kong and Korea. A total of 521 student-athletes (Hong Kong: 232; Korea: 289) in intercollegiate athletics participated in the survey. The results of structural equation modeling (SEM) indicated partial mediations of interactional justice between abusive and supportive coaching styles and satisfaction and commitment. Although the multigroup SEM results revealed no differences in terms of the directions and levels of significance of the relationships among the variables between two countries, there was a significant difference in the size of the effect of abusive leadership on the outcomes between the two groups.		[Kim, Seungmo; Hong, Sungil] Hong Kong Baptist Univ, Dept Sport Phys Educ & Hlth, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [Magnusen, Marshall J.] Baylor Univ, Dept Educ Leadership, Waco, TX 76798 USA; [Rhee, Yoojung] Gallaudet Univ, Dept Phys Educ & Recreat, Washington, DC 20002 USA; [Kim, Seungmo] Hong Kong Baptist Univ, Dept Sport Phys Educ & Hlth, Kowloon Tong, 932 Acad & Adm Bldg,15 Baptist Univ Rd Campus, Hong Kong, Peoples R China								16							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000542342700001	79	Article; Article		
J	Park, Young Joon; Zhang, Fan; Yoon, Yeujun								The external effect of a migrated star player on domestic sports league: an empirical analysis of three Asian leagues - Japan, Korea and Taiwan[1]								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				22	2			262	292		10.1108/IJSMS-09-2019-0093			APR 6 2021	2021	Purpose This study aims to examine the "external effect" of a migrated star player on their domestic sport industries. By exploring the new aspect of star power, this study provides important insight and critical implication to many relevant stakeholders in the professional sports league. Particularly, this is critical under the recent circumstance where the globalization of sports products becomes the central strategic issue of the world-class leagues. Design/methodology/approach In this paper, the external effect of star players migrated from three Asian leagues (Japan, Korea and Taiwan) to Major League Baseball in the USA, the world-class baseball league, on their domestic league attendance demand was empirically investigated. For the analysis, comprehensive historical data from various reliable sources from each league were collected. Findings The findings of the paper strongly support the external effect of migrated stars significantly existing in all the three leagues. The effect is consistent across various measurements of migrated star players. More interestingly, the effect was found to be mixed across different leagues; for example, migrated star players increases in domestic league attendance in Japan, while it decreases in Korea and Taiwan. This indicates that the external effect of migrated star players depends on the characteristics of the domestic leagues. In addition, it was found that the external effect was substantial enough to compare to the effect of major demand drivers such as team winning, competitive balance and star power. For managerial implications, this study also provides revenue projections induced by the impact of migrated star players. Originality/value This study opens a new chapter related to star power topic and immediately calls for future studies regarding this external effect, particularly, theoretical and behavioral approaches.		[Park, Young Joon; Zhang, Fan] Peking Univ, HSBC Business Sch, Shenzhen, Peoples R China; [Yoon, Yeujun] Kyung Hee Univ, Sch Management, Seoul, South Korea; [Yoon, Yeujun] Kyung Hee Univ, Sch Management, Seoul, South Korea								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000552069100001	110	Article; Article		
J	Girard, Olivier; Racinais, Sebastien; Couderc, Anthony; Morin, Jean-Benoit; Ryu, Joong Hyun; Piscione, Julien; Brocherie, Franck								Asymmetries during repeated treadmill sprints in elite female Rugby Sevens players								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				22	7			863	873		10.1080/14763141.2020.1767188			JUL 3 2023	2023	This study describes asymmetry in the main running mechanical variables during repeated treadmill sprints in elite female athletes and examines whether inter-limb differences in sprinting mechanics increase with fatigue. Eighteen elite female players (French national Rugby Sevens team) performed 8 x 5-s sprints (25-s rest) on an instrumented motorised sprint treadmill. The group mean 'symmetry angle' (SA) scores were similar to 1-2% for contact time (1.6 +/- 0.6%), aerial time (2.1 +/- 0.8%), step frequency (1.3 +/- 0.5%) and step length (1.6 +/- 0.6%). Mean vertical and horizontal forces, vertical and leg stiffness presented SA values of 1.7 +/- 1.5%, 2.4 +/- 1.2%, 2.6 +/- 0.2% and 2.5 +/- 0.2%, respectively. The SA scores were similar to 2-8% for duration of braking (6.9 +/- 5.0%) and propulsive (6.5 +/- 4.4%) phases, peak braking (6.5 +/- 2.5%) and propulsive (1.6 +/- 0.9%) forces as well as net (5.8 +/- 5.6%), braking (7.7 +/- 5.3%) and propulsive (2.7 +/- 1.6%) impulses. However, there was no influence of sprint repetition number on SA scores for tested variables (P > 0.05). In elite female Rugby Sevens players, there was no noticeable difference in asymmetries for the great majority of stride mechanical variables during repeated treadmill sprints.		[Girard, Olivier] Univ Western Australia, Sch Human Sci, Exercise & Sport Sci Dept, Perth, WA, Australia; [Girard, Olivier; Racinais, Sebastien] Aspetar Orthopaed & Sports Med Hosp, Res & Sci Support Dept, Doha, Qatar; [Couderc, Anthony; Piscione, Julien] French Rugby Union, Res Dept, Marcoussis, France; [Morin, Jean-Benoit] Univ Cote dAzur, Fac Sport Sci, Nice, France; [Ryu, Joong Hyun] Aspire Acad, Biomech Dept, Doha, Qatar; [Brocherie, Franck] French Inst Sport, Lab Sport Expertise & Performance, Paris, France; [Girard, Olivier] Univ Western Australia, Sch Human Sci, Exercise & Sport Sci Dept, Perth, WA, Australia; [Girard, Olivier] Aspetar Orthopaed & Sports Med Hosp, Res & Sci Support Dept, Doha, Qatar								15							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000545242500001	19	Article; Article		
J	McGown, Riley B.; Ball, Nick B.; Legg, Jan S.; Mara, Jocelyn K.								The perceptual, heart rate and technical-tactical characteristics of 3 x 3 basketball								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				15	5-6			772	782	1747954120930916	10.1177/1747954120930916			DEC 2020	2020	The aim of this study was to investigate the perceptual, heart rate and technical-tactical characteristics of elite male and female 3 x 3 basketball games. Eleven male and twenty-two female elite basketball players were monitored using heart rate telemetry, Ratings of Perceived Exertion (RPE) and video analysis across three 3 x 3 basketball tournaments. Linear mixed models were performed to determine the influence of round (pool game, quarter-final, semi-final, final, classification game) and sex on all dependent variables (alpha = 0.05). There was no difference between sexes for heart rate variables (p = 0.53 - 0.85). The greatest percentage (56.9 +/- 20.1%) of game time was spent in heart rate zone 5 (90-100% peak heart rate). Overall RPE was higher in semi-finals (7.2 +/- 1.5, p <= 0.001, ES: 1.27) and finals (7.7 +/- 1.6 p <= 0.001, ES: 1.67) compared to pool games (5.1 +/- 1.5). An analysis of the technical-tactical actions revealed that there were less steals in semi-finals (p = 0.01, ES = 0.56) and finals (p = 0.01, ES = 0.71) compared to pool games, with no sex-related differences present (p = 0.06 - 0.97). Players generally spent one minute on the bench for every three minutes on the court, creating a 3:1 work to rest ratio. Physical preparation programs for elite 3 x 3 basketball athletes should include exposure to high-intensity activity in which heart rates >= 80% of peak heart rate are reached for periods of time similar to that experienced during gameplay. A 3:1 work-to-rest ratio may be beneficial during conditioning training for this population.		[McGown, Riley B.; Legg, Jan S.] Australian Inst Sport, Basketball Australia Ctr Excellence, Bruce, ACT, Australia; [McGown, Riley B.; Ball, Nick B.; Mara, Jocelyn K.] Univ Canberra, Fac Hlth, Discipline Sport & Exercise Sci, Bruce, ACT, Australia; [Ball, Nick B.; Mara, Jocelyn K.] Univ Canberra, Univ Canberra Res Inst Sport & Exercise UCRISE, Bruce, ACT, Australia; [McGown, Riley B.] Univ Canberra, Fac Hlth, Discipline Sport & Exercise Sci, Bruce, ACT, Australia								21							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000540288800001	39	Article; Article		
J	Garcia, Jaume; Rodriguez, Placido; Todeschini, Federico								The Demand for the Characteristics of Football Matches: A Hedonic Price Approach								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				21	7			688	704	1527002520930252	10.1177/1527002520930252			OCT 2020	2020	We estimate a system of demand equations for three aggregate characteristics of a football game-quality of the teams, outcome uncertainty, and schedule-based on the estimation of a hedonic price model for the ticket price of a football match using data from the Spanish football league. We conclude that all three characteristics are not inferior goods (quality as a luxury), and they are price inelastic, showing some degree of complementarity. Some implications of these results in terms of the measures taken and to be taken by the Spanish association of football clubs (LaLiga) are discussed.		[Garcia, Jaume; Todeschini, Federico] Univ Pompeu Fabra, Dept Econ & Empresa, Ramon Trias Fargas 25-27, Barcelona 08005, Spain; [Rodriguez, Placido] Univ Oviedo, Dept Econ, Fdn Observ Econ Deporte, Oviedo, Spain; [Todeschini, Federico] Inst Catala Avaluacio Polit Publ, Barcelona, Spain; [Garcia, Jaume] Univ Pompeu Fabra, Dept Econ & Empresa, Ramon Trias Fargas 25-27, Barcelona 08005, Spain								6							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000539855800001	49	Article; Article		
J	Kroll, Melissa; Preuss, Jordan; Ness, Brandon M.; Dolny, Madeline; Louder, Talin								Effect of stroboscopic vision on depth jump performance in female NCAA Division I volleyball athletes								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				22	8			1016	1026		10.1080/14763141.2020.1773917			AUG 3 2023	2023	Anticipation of ground reaction force (GRF) in depth jumping requires multisensory integration of exteroceptive, vestibular, and proprioceptive inputs. Vision contributes to the anticipation of GRF in drop landings and may influence depth jump performance when disrupted. The purpose of this investigation was to evaluate the effects of stroboscopic vision on depth jump performance. Thirteen female NCAA Division I volleyball athletes completed a testing protocol consisting of 0.38 m depth jumps under condition of full vision and stroboscopic vision at strobe frequencies of 4 and 1.75 Hz. Depth jump performance was assessed via the Reactive Strength Index (RSI) and time-series vertical GRF (vGRF) data. Main effects of stroboscopic vision were evaluated for statistical significance via Repeated Measures Multivariate Analysis of Variance with post hoc multiple pairedt-tests (alpha = 0.05). RSI (p< 0.001) and rebound jump height (p= 0.006) were lower in the 1.75 Hz stroboscopic condition versus full vision, while ground contact time (p= 0.008), and rate of vertical ground reaction force development (p= 0.016) were greater in the 1.75 Hz stroboscopic condition versus full vision. Stroboscopic vision could be used to modify the intensity of depth jumping and considered for inclusion into plyometric training.		[Kroll, Melissa; Preuss, Jordan] Univ South Dakota, Div Kinesiol & Sport Management, Vermillion, SD USA; [Ness, Brandon M.] Univ South Dakota, Dept Phys Therapy, Vermillion, SD USA; [Dolny, Madeline] Utah State Univ, Dept Athlet, Logan, UT 84322 USA; [Louder, Talin] Sorenson Ctr Clin Excellence, Movement Res Clin, Logan, UT 84321 USA; [Louder, Talin] Utah State Univ, Dept Kinesiol & Hlth Sci, Logan, UT 84322 USA; [Louder, Talin] Sorenson Ctr Clin Excellence, Movement Res Clin, Logan, UT 84321 USA; [Louder, Talin] Utah State Univ, Dept Kinesiol & Hlth Sci, Logan, UT 84322 USA								16							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000544375500001	23	Article; Article		
J	Belchior, Carlos Alberto								Fans and Match Results: Evidence From a Natural Experiment in Brazil								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				21	7			663	687	1527002520930812	10.1177/1527002520930812			OCT 2020	2020	This paper assesses the effect of the crowd size on home team advantage, using a natural experiment occurred in Brazilian football. In 2015, the Brazilian Football Confederation (CBF) quasi-randomly assigned games to be played under an alternative schedule on Sundays at 11 a.m. This measure significantly increased attendance in assigned games. Using this alternative schedule as an instrumental variable, we show that the exogenous increase in attendance did not increase home team advantage.		[Belchior, Carlos Alberto] Pontificia Univ Catolica Rio de Janeiro, Ave Afranio de Melo Franco 393,Apartament 903, BR-22451900 Rio De Janeiro, DF, Brazil; [Belchior, Carlos Alberto] Pontificia Univ Catolica Rio de Janeiro, Ave Afranio de Melo Franco 393,Apartament 903, BR-22451900 Rio De Janeiro, DF, Brazil								15							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000539049600001	31	Article; Article		
J	Fritsch, Carolina G.; Dornelles, Mauricio P.; Oliveira, Gabriel dos S.; Baroni, Bruno M.								Poor hamstrings-to-quadriceps torque ratios in male soccer players: weak hamstrings, strong quadriceps, or both?								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				22	7			811	821		10.1080/14763141.2020.1766100			JUL 3 2023	2023	This study aimed to evaluate the influence of hamstrings and quadriceps strength on the hamstrings-to-quadriceps conventional (H:Q(con)) and functional (H:Q(fun)) ratios in male soccer players. Quadriceps concentric peak torque (PT) and hamstrings concentric and eccentric PT were assessed with isokinetic dynamometry at 60 degrees/s in 101 players (202 legs). The cut-points of 0.50, 0.55 and 0.60 were used to assess muscle imbalance through the H:Q(con)ratio, while 0.80, 0.85 and 0.90 were used for H:Q(fun)ratio. Legs with lower H:Q(con)ratio had decreased hamstrings concentric PT (p < 0.01; moderate and large effect sizes) and increased quadriceps concentric PT (p < 0.01; moderate effect sizes) in all cut-points. Legs with lower H:Q(fun)ratio had decreased hamstrings eccentric PT (p < 0.01; large effect sizes) for all cut-points, and controversial results for quadriceps concentric PT (p < 0.01 only for 0.80 cut-point; small effect sizes). H:Q(con)ratio presented only weak correlations with quadriceps (r = -0.37) and hamstrings (r = 0.45) concentric PT, while H:Q(fun)ratio had a negligible correlation with quadriceps concentric PT (r = -0.30) and a moderate correlation with hamstrings eccentric PT (r = 0.66). In conclusion, our findings support that hamstrings strength deficit is the key factor for low H:Q ratios in male soccer players, especially those with poor H:Q(fun)ratio.		[Fritsch, Carolina G.; Dornelles, Mauricio P.; Oliveira, Gabriel dos S.; Baroni, Bruno M.] Univ Sydney, Inst Bone & Joint Res, Kolling Inst, Fac Med & Hlth,Northern Clin Sch, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Fritsch, Carolina G.] Univ Sydney, Inst Bone & Joint Res, Kolling Inst, Fac Med & Hlth,Northern Clin Sch, Sydney, NSW, Australia								11							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000543467200001	38	Article; Article		
J	Vila Dieguez, Oscar; Barden, John M.								Body roll differences in freestyle swimming between swimmers with and without shoulder pain								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				21	10			1277	1290		10.1080/14763141.2020.1760923			NOV 26 2022	2022	Several studies have identified body roll as an important variable that affects shoulder pain due to its potential to modify upper limb kinematics. This study aimed to investigate potential differences in body roll between swimmers with and without shoulder pain. Twenty-four competitive swimmers participated in the study, 12 with unilateral shoulder pain and 12 without. Body roll was measured using two tri-axial accelerometers, one at the shoulder and one at the hip, during three trials of 100 m front crawl swimming at three different speeds. The results showed no significant difference in peak body roll angle between groups for the breathing side at the shoulders or hips. However, for the non-breathing side, swimmers with shoulder pain rolled significantly less at the hips (49o vs 57o, p = 0.018, r = 0.931) while no significant difference was found at the shoulders. These findings suggest that a potential relationship between hip rotation and shoulder pain may exist, such that hip roll is diminished to the non-breathing side in swimmers with unilateral shoulder pain. Given that a cause-effect relationship cannot be inferred from this cross-sectional study, future studies should attempt to identify the mechanisms that link body roll to the aetiology and pathomechanics of shoulder pain.		[Vila Dieguez, Oscar; Barden, John M.] Univ Regina, Fac Kinesiol & Hlth Studies, Regina, SK, Canada; [Vila Dieguez, Oscar] Univ Regina, Fac Kinesiol & Hlth Studies, Regina, SK, Canada								13							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000542807100001	34	Article; Article		
J	Souza, Catiane; Krueger, Renata Lopes; Detogni Schmit, Emanuelle Francine; Wagner Neto, Edgar Santiago; Reischak-Oliveira, Alvaro; Couto de Sa, Cloud Kennedy; Loss, Jefferson Fagundes								Cardiorespiratory Adaptation to Pilates Training								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				92	3			453	459		10.1080/02701367.2020.1749222			JUL 3 2021	2021	Several authors report health improvements with training based on the Pilates Method; however, no explicit analysis has been performed on cardiorespiratory effects after Method exclusive training.Purpose: The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effects of 15 weeks of Pilates training on cardiorespiratory fitness in young, sedentary women.Method: A total of 13 sedentary women 21-35 years volunteered and signed an informed consent for the observational study of a single group, performing control-test, pre- and post-exercise measurements. The Pilates program was conducted for 15 weeks, with two 50-min sessions per week. Cardiorespiratory responses were assessed using an open circuit ergospirometry system by gas analyzer (MGC, model CPX/D).Results: During the 15-week program, statistically significant advances were observed in maximum oxygen consumptionF(1.25; 13.78) = 18.95;p=.001; omega(2 )=.858 with large effect size (r=.81;p<.001), first ventilatory thresholdF(1.19; 13.15) = 20.43;p=.001; omega 2 =.034 with large effect size (r=.77;p<.05) and second ventilatory thresholdF(1.18; 13.00) = 24.56;p=.001 also presenting a large effect size (r =.85;p<.05).Conclusion: These results indicate that practicing Pilates for 30 x 50 min sessions had a positive influence on cardiorespiratory parameters in healthy sedentary women with low respiratory capacities.		[Souza, Catiane; Detogni Schmit, Emanuelle Francine; Wagner Neto, Edgar Santiago; Reischak-Oliveira, Alvaro; Loss, Jefferson Fagundes] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Sul, Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil; [Krueger, Renata Lopes] Univ Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Couto de Sa, Cloud Kennedy] Univ Estadual Feira de Santana, Feira De Santana, BA, Brazil; [Souza, Catiane] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Sul, Escola Educ Fis Fisioterapia & Danca, 750 St,POB 90690-200, Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000543503900001	29	Article; Article		
J	Bruner, Mark W.; McLaren, Colin; Swann, Christian; Schweickle, Matthew J.; Miller, Andrew; Benson, Alex; Gardner, Lauren A.; Sutcliffe, Jordan; Vella, Stewart A.								Exploring the Relations between Social Support and Social Identity in Adolescent Male Athletes								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				92	3			566	572		10.1080/02701367.2020.1737629			JUL 3 2021	2021	Purpose Social identity (i.e., the strength with which individuals identify with a group) is a key mechanism through which youth sport participants derive developmental benefits. However, despite the importance of one's social identity in promoting these benefits, our understanding of the correlates of social identity within the sport context is limited by the absence of evidence. To address this gap, this study investigated the relations between perceived social support from coaches, family, and friends and social identification.Method: Male adolescent athletes (N= 344) completed measures of social support and social identity as part of a cross-sectional design. Latent profile analysis was used to identify distinct social support profiles.Results: Four latent profiles were identified: higher support, average support, diminished support, and lower support. ANCOVA results indicated that profile membership corresponded to significant differences in social identity perceptions,p< .001, partial eta(2) = .26. Participants in the higher social support profile perceived significantly higher social identity when compared with profiles of average, diminished, and lower support (ps < .05, Cohen'sd >=.67).Conclusion: Results highlight the association between support from different social agents and social identity in youth sport. Better understanding the correlates of social identity may be critical in enhancing the developmental benefits of participation in organized team sports given the relationship with social identity.		[Bruner, Mark W.; McLaren, Colin; Sutcliffe, Jordan] Nipissing Univ, North Bay, ON, Canada; [Swann, Christian] Southern Cross Univ, Lismore, NSW, Australia; [Schweickle, Matthew J.; Vella, Stewart A.] Univ Wollongong, Wollongong, NSW, Australia; [Miller, Andrew] Univ Newcastle, Callaghan, NSW, Australia; [Benson, Alex] Univ Western Ontario, London, ON, Canada; [Gardner, Lauren A.] Univ Sydney, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Bruner, Mark W.] Nipissing Univ, Sch Phys & Hlth Educ, 100 Coll Dr, North Bay, ON P1B 8L7, Canada								22							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000542872000001	27	Article; Article		
J	Wing, Chris; Bishop, Chris								Hamstring Strain Injuries: Incidence, Mechanisms, Risk Factors, and Training Recommendations								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				42	3			40	57		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000538			JUN 2020	2020	Hamstring strain injury (HSI) is one of the most commonly reported sports injuries. This has led to a substantial amount of research aimed at identifying factors that increase the risk of an athlete suffering a HSI. The identification of risk factors allows practitioners to plan intervention programs with the aim of reducing the rate and severity of HSI. As a multitude of factors contribute to the risk of HSI, interventions should be multifaceted in nature. This review outlines the incidence, mechanisms, and risk factors for HSI and provides evidence-based training recommendations to reduce the rate and severity of HSI.		[Wing, Chris] South Fremantle Football Club, Perth, WA, Australia; [Wing, Chris] Peel Reg Acad Sport, Perth, WA, Australia; [Bishop, Chris] Middlesex Univ, London Sport Inst, Strength & Conditioning, Allianz Pk, London, England; [Bishop, Chris] Middlesex Univ, London Sport Inst, Strength & Conditioning, Allianz Pk, London, England								18							Sport Sciences	WOS:000538877200005	116	Article; Article		
J	Morales, Jose; Fukuda, David H.; Curto, Cristina; Iteya, Misaki; Kubota, Hiroshi; Pierantozzi, Emanuela; La Monica, Michael B.								Progression of Combat Sport Activities for Youth Athletes								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				42	3			78	89		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000525			JUN 2020	2020	Combat sport activities can play a role in the development of children and adolescents, and they are often a part of physical education classes and extracurricular activities. In addition to the psychological and social benefits these activities offer, they are also highly beneficial in physiological terms, as they are based on intermittent, metabolically demanding activities that help participants improve their physical fitness. The aim of this work is to propose a logical progression of game-based activities that reproduce different technical-tactical and physiological requirements of combat sports. The 5 phases become progressively more difficult with respect to both strategy and intensity.		[Morales, Jose; Curto, Cristina] Ramon Llull Univ, Fac Psychol Educ Sci & Sport Blanquerna, Barcelona, Spain; [Fukuda, David H.] Univ Cent Florida, Inst Exercise Physiol & Rehabil Sci, Sch Kinesiol & Phys Therapy, Orlando, FL 32816 USA; [Iteya, Misaki] Waseda Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Tokyo, Japan; [Kubota, Hiroshi] Tokyo Gakugei Univ, Tokyo, Japan; [Pierantozzi, Emanuela] Univ Genoa, Sch Exercise & Sport Sci, Genoa, Italy; [La Monica, Michael B.] Missouri State Univ, Springfield, MO USA; [Morales, Jose] Ramon Llull Univ, Fac Psychol Educ Sci & Sport Blanquerna, Barcelona, Spain								8							Sport Sciences	WOS:000538877200008	33	Article; Article		
J	Nugent, Frank J.; Flanagan, Eamonn P.; Wilson, Fiona; Warrington, Giles D.								Strength and Conditioning for Competitive Rowers								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				42	3			6	21		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000531			JUN 2020	2020	Strength and conditioning (S&C) is an essential component of performance enhancement and injury reduction for competitive rowers. However, information regarding the practical application of appropriate S&C programming for competitive rowers is limited. The aim of this article is to provide an evidence-based needs analysis based on a review of the literature in the area of biomechanics, physiology, and injury epidemiology in the sport of rowing. Practical considerations and guidelines for the implementation of S&C programs for competitive rowers will be provided.		[Nugent, Frank J.; Warrington, Giles D.] Univ Limerick, Fac Educ & Hlth Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Limerick, Ireland; [Nugent, Frank J.; Warrington, Giles D.] Univ Limerick, Sport & Human Performance Res Ctr, Hlth Res Inst, Limerick, Ireland; [Flanagan, Eamonn P.] Sport Ireland Inst, Natl Sports Campus, Dublin, Ireland; [Wilson, Fiona] Trinity Coll Dublin, Sch Med, Discipline Physiotherapy, Dublin, Ireland; [Nugent, Frank J.] Univ Limerick, Fac Educ & Hlth Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Limerick, Ireland; [Nugent, Frank J.] Univ Limerick, Sport & Human Performance Res Ctr, Hlth Res Inst, Limerick, Ireland								11							Sport Sciences	WOS:000538877200002	108	Article; Article		
J	Langford, Emily; Burnham, Alyssa; Thompson, Krystopher; Cook, Jordan; Ryan, Greg A.								Home-Based Exercise Prescription for Congestive Heart Failure								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				42	3			112	120		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000524			JUN 2020	2020	Congestive heart failure (CHF) is an increasingly prevalent condition characterized by a reduced ability of the heart to circulate blood throughout the body. Although CHF is particularly prevalent among aging populations, evidence suggests physical training can improve exercise capacity, quality of life, and risk of mortality. Many individuals with CHF lack access to cardiac rehabilitation facilities, though, and therefore do not receive appropriate treatment. However, home-based rehabilitation programs may provide various advantages over clinic-based programs. This article will explain the pathophysiology and benefits of exercise in those with the condition, as well as provide recommendations for home-based training for individuals with CHF.		[Langford, Emily; Burnham, Alyssa; Thompson, Krystopher; Cook, Jordan; Ryan, Greg A.] Georgia Southern Univ, Dept Hlth Sci & Kinesiol, Statesboro, GA 30458 USA; [Langford, Emily] Georgia Southern Univ, Dept Hlth Sci & Kinesiol, Statesboro, GA 30458 USA								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:000538877200012	42	Article; Article		
J	Langevin, Taylor L.; Antonoff, Daniel; Renodin, Christina; Shellene, Erin; Spahr, Lee; Marsh, Wallace A.; Rosene, John M.								Head impact exposures in women's collegiate rugby								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				49	1			68	73		10.1080/00913847.2020.1770568			JAN 2 2021	2021	Objectives To describe the incidence, magnitude, and distribution of head impacts and track concussions sustained in a collegiate level women's rugby season. Methods Data on head impact incidence and magnitude were collected via Smart Impact Monitors (SIM) (Triax Technologies, Inc., Norwalk, CT) within fitted headbands during practices and games of one competitive season. Magnitude data included peak linear acceleration (PLA) and peak rotational velocity (PRV) measurements and were reported as median [IQR]. Results Players sustained 120 head impacts >= 15 g (18.1 g - 78.9 g) with 1199 total athlete exposures. In eight games, 67 head impacts were recorded with a mean rate of 0.40 +/- 0.22 hits per-player per-match, median PLA of 32.2 g, and PRV of 13.5 rad(.)sec(-1). There were 53 head impacts in 47 practices with a mean rate of 0.05 +/- 0.04 hits per-player per-practice, median PLA of 29.8 g and PRV of 15.7 rad(.)sec(-1). Four concussions were reported and monitored. Conclusion The incidence and magnitude of head impacts in collegiate level women's rugby over one season of practices and games were fewer than those reported in other comparable studies. These findings give insight into the impact burden that female collegiate rugby athletes withstand throughout a competitive season.		[Langevin, Taylor L.; Antonoff, Daniel; Renodin, Christina] Univ New England, Coll Osteopath Med, Biddeford, ME 04005 USA; [Shellene, Erin] Univ New England, Dept Athlet, Biddeford, ME 04005 USA; [Spahr, Lee; Rosene, John M.] Univ New England, Dept Exercise & Sport Performance, 11 Hills Beach Rd, Biddeford, ME 04005 USA; [Marsh, Wallace A.] Univ New England, Coll Pharm, Portland, ME USA; [Langevin, Taylor L.] Univ New England, Dept Exercise & Sport Performance, 11 Hills Beach Rd, Biddeford, ME 04005 USA								9							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000542010700001	28	Article; Article		
J	Bumann, Anke; Banzer, Winfried; Fleckenstein, Johannes								Prevalence of Biopsychosocial Factors of Pain in 865 Sports Students of the Dach (Germany, Austria, Switzerland) Region - A Cross-Sectional Survey								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				19	2			323	336					JUN 2020	2020	When sports are part of a person's profession or education, their careers are often handicapped by pain, a complex physical and mental state that may already occur at lower career stages. This study was designed to assess the occurrence of pain among sports students and the prevalence of relevant contributing psychosocial co-factors. Exploratory cross-sectional study surveying students at 89 sports faculties of universities in the DACH region using the German Sports Pain Questionnaire. It includes several validated surveys related to pain occurrence in different body regions, injuries, pain diagnoses and pain intensity, depression, anxiety, stress, self-compassion, analgesic and alcohol consumption, as well as sleep quality, health-related quality of life and impairments of quality of life by pain. A total of 865 sports students gave consent to participate in the study, and 664 participants (78%; 23.3 +/- 2.84 years, 60% female, 40% male) completed the full survey. More than half of the students (53%; n = 403) showed current pain in 2 - 5 regions of the body, while subjective pain tolerance was enhanced. General injuries or accidents, medically and self-diagnosed pain diagnoses during the last eight weeks were reported by 30%. A current pain intensity >= 3 NRS was prevalent in 28% (n = 205), which correlated with increased pain-related biopsychosocial scores. Sports students had increased scores for depression, anxiety and stress, and self-compassion was reduced (compared to age-controlled national reference data, sports students head increased scores). The mean weekly training workload was 5 - 7 hours. Analgesics and alcohol consumption was increased, 61% reported insomnia. Across sports students, pain and biopsychosocial burden seem significantly increased when compared to other students and age-controlled cohorts. The data implies the need of giving greater importance to pain management at least from the time of sports studies in order to prevent pain and health risks in sports.		[Bumann, Anke; Banzer, Winfried; Fleckenstein, Johannes] Goethe Univ Frankfurt, Dept Sports Med & Exercise Physiol, Frankfurt, Germany; [Bumann, Anke] Justus Liebig Univ Giessen, Dept Exercise Physiol & Sports Therapy, Giessen, Germany; [Banzer, Winfried] Goethe Univ, Inst Occupat Social & Environm Med, Frankfurt, Germany; [Fleckenstein, Johannes] Goethe Univ Frankfurt, Dept Sports Med & Exercise Physiol, Frankfurt, Germany								10							Sport Sciences	WOS:000530037300011	52	Article; Article		
J	Marinho, Daniel A.; Barbosa, Tiago M.; Neiva, Henrique P.; Silva, Antonio J.; Morais, Jorge E.								Comparison of the Start, Turn and Finish Performance of Elite Swimmers in 100 m and 200 m Races								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				19	2			397	407					JUN 2020	2020	The main aim of this study was to compare the start, turn, and finish performance of 100 m and 200 m events in the four swimming strokes in elite swimmers of both sexes. The performances of all 128 finalists (64 males and 64 females) of the 100 m, and 200 m events at a major championship were analyzed. A set of variables related to the start, turn, and finish were assessed. In the start a significant and moderate race effect was verified in both sexes (100 m vs 200 m). It was highest in butterfly events (males: Delta = 9.81%, p = 0.046, eta(2) = 0.60; females: Delta = 7.96%, p < 0.001, eta(2) = 0.75). In the turn a significant and moderate-strong race effect was verified in all strokes in both sexes, the highest being in butterfly (males: Delta = 12.26%, p < 0.001, eta(2) = 0.93; females: Delta = 10.74%, p < 0.001, eta(2) = 0.92). The finish had a significant and moderate race effect in butterfly and in breaststroke (females). The underwater variables were found to be the main contributors to a faster start. Over the turn, key determinants were the surface variables. As for the finish, mixed results were observed. It can be suggested that the underwater profile was the main determinant in starting, whereas the surface profile was the main determinant in turning. Therefore, coaches are advised to focus on such race phases to enhance the total race time.		[Marinho, Daniel A.; Neiva, Henrique P.] Univ Beira Interior, Dept Sport Sci, Covilha, Portugal; [Marinho, Daniel A.; Barbosa, Tiago M.; Neiva, Henrique P.; Silva, Antonio J.; Morais, Jorge E.] Res Ctr Sports Hlth & Human Dev, Covilha, Portugal; [Barbosa, Tiago M.; Morais, Jorge E.] Inst Politecn Braganca, Dept Sport Sci, Campus Sta Apolonia,Apartado 1101, P-5301856 Braganca, Portugal; [Silva, Antonio J.] Univ Tras Os Montes & Alto Douro, Dept Sport Sci Exercise & Hlth, Vila Real, Portugal; [Morais, Jorge E.] Inst Politecn Braganca, Dept Sport Sci, Campus Sta Apolonia,Apartado 1101, P-5301856 Braganca, Portugal								58							Sport Sciences	WOS:000530037300019	35	Article; Article		
J	Pojskic, Haris; McGawley, Kerry; Gustafsson, Anna; Behm, David G.								The Reliability and Validity of a Novel Sport-Specific Balance Test to Differentiate Performance Levels in Elite Curling Players								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				19	2			337	346					JUN 2020	2020	Balance as a skill and task-specific capacity is considered an essential physical quality in curling, required for executing effective stone delivery. However, no testing protocols have been developed to test curling-specific balance in the delivery position. Thus, the primary aim of this study was to investigate the reliability, validity and usefulness of a newly-developed, curling-specific balance test (CSBT) which involved the delivery position. The secondary aim was to examine the differences between elite and sub-elite curlers for core strength and flexibility, which have previously been identified as important qualities in curling and determinants of balance. Twenty curling players (13 females aged 19 +/- 3.1 years; 7 males aged 19.6 +/- 2.3 years) from five Swedish super-league curling clubs were divided into two groups according to playing level: elite and sub-elite. Variables included body mass, body height, body mass index, age, playing experience, training frequency, plank test, sit and reach test, standing single-leg balance test (SLBT) and CSBT. The CSBT was executed on a multiaxial tilting balance plate while mimicking the curling delivery position (i.e., a deep lunge position with the front foot on the plate). The participants completed the CSBT on three separate occasions, with each test consisting of three, 20-s attempts. Both the relative and absolute reliability were good for the CSBT (ICC = 0.90; CV = 14.5%). The CSBT demonstrated good measurement usefulness, being sensitive to detect moderate changes that exceeded 0.5 times the test standard deviation. Construct validity of the CSBT was evidenced by the large discriminatory capacity to differentiate expertise level in curling players (t-test: 2.85, p < 0.01; large ES), irrespective of other physical capacities (e.g., flexibility and core strength). However, the elite and sub-elite players also differed in age, playing experience and training frequency. Content validity was confirmed by a weak correlation (r = 0.21; 95%CI: -0.26 to 0.60) between the CSBT and SLBT, which suggests that curling-specific and standing balance should be considered as independent and task-specific motor skills. In conclusion, the CSBT can be used as a reliable, valid and useful tool for the assessment of curling-specific balance performance. In addition, longer and more extensive involvement in curling training contributed to superior specific balance in elite curlers.		[Pojskic, Haris] Linnaeus Univ, Dept Sports Sci, Kalmar, Sweden; [McGawley, Kerry; Gustafsson, Anna] Mid Sweden Univ, Swedish Winter Sports Res Ctr, Dept Hlth Sci, Ostersund, Sweden; [Behm, David G.] Mem Univ Newfoundland, Sch Human Kinet & Recreat, St John, NF, Canada; [Pojskic, Haris] Linnaeus Univ, Dept Sports Sci, Kalmar, Sweden								15							Sport Sciences	WOS:000530037300012	59	Article; Article		
J	Monje, Camila; Rada, Isabel; Castro-Sepulveda, Mauricio; Penailillo, Luis; Deldicque, Louise; Zbinden-Foncea, Hermann								Effects of A High Intensity Interval Session on Mucosal Immune Function and Salivary Hormones in Male and Female Endurance Athletes								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				19	2			436	443					JUN 2020	2020	Although the effects of high intensity interval training (HIIT) on health and sports performance are well documented, the effects of this training type on mucosal immune function remain unclear. The aim of this study was to assess the impact of an acute HIIT session on salivary immune and endocrine marker levels (immunoglobulin A (sIgA), alpha amylase (sAA), cortisol (C), and testosterone (T)) in male and female endurance athletes. Twenty subjects (ten males and ten females) underwent ten bouts of treadmill running using a 4 min:2 min work:rest ratio at similar to 90% of peak oxygen uptake (VO2peak). Saliva samples were collected 5 min before and 20 min post-exercise. During work intervals, female participants had a higher HR than male participants (+4.0 +/- 5%; p = 0.008). Rating of perceived exertion (RPE) increased throughout the duration of the HIIT session in both males and females (main time effect: p < 0.001), but was higher in males than females (+17 +/- 4%; time x gender main effect: p < 0.001). Lactate concentrations were similar in both males and females. Exercise increased the concentration of salivary IgA (males: +24 +/- 6%, p = 0.004; females: +27 +/- 3%, p = 0.03), salivary alpha-amylase (males: +44 +/- 22%, p = 0.036; females: +71 +/- 26%, p = 0.026) and salivary cortisol (males: +41 +/- 24%, p = 0.015; females: +55 +/- 24%, p = 0.005). Testosterone levels and the Testosterone/Cortisol ratio remained stable in both males and females. These findings suggest that the physiological stress produced by a HIIT session does not affect immune function and does not disturb the anabolic/catabolic balance.		[Monje, Camila; Rada, Isabel; Castro-Sepulveda, Mauricio; Penailillo, Luis; Zbinden-Foncea, Hermann] Univ Finis Terrae, Fac Med, Sch Kinesiol, Exercise Sci Lab, Santiago, Chile; [Deldicque, Louise; Zbinden-Foncea, Hermann] UCLouvain, Inst Neurosci, Louvain La Neuve, Belgium; [Zbinden-Foncea, Hermann] Ctr Salud Deport, Clin Santa Maria, Santiago, Chile; [Zbinden-Foncea, Hermann] Univ Finis Terrae, Fac Med, Sch Kinesiol, Exercise Sci Lab, Santiago, Chile; [Zbinden-Foncea, Hermann] UCLouvain, Inst Neurosci, Louvain La Neuve, Belgium; [Zbinden-Foncea, Hermann] Ctr Salud Deport, Clin Santa Maria, Santiago, Chile								20							Sport Sciences	WOS:000530037300023	56	Article; Article		
J	Wilburn, Dylan T.; Machek, Steven B.; Cardaci, Thomas D.; Hwang, Paul S.; Willoughby, Darryn S.								Acute Maltodextrin Supplementation During Resistance Exercise								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				19	2			282	288					JUN 2020	2020	Most of the research investigating the ergogenic enhancing mechanisms of carbohydrate have been conducted using aerobic based exercise. Therefore, the purpose of this study was to investigate the effects of pre-exercise maltodextrin ingestion on resistance exercise performance, serum insulin, epinephrine, glucose, and muscle glycogen concentrations. In a double blind, cross over, repeated measures design, participants completed four sets to failure at 70% of 1-RM with 45s rest on the angled leg press with or without pre-exercise maltodextrin (2g/kg) after a 3hr fast. Serum glucose, epinephrine, and insulin were assessed at baseline, 30 min post-ingestion, immediately after, and 1hr post-exercise with or without carbohydrate supplementation. Muscle glycogen was assessed from biopsy specimens sampled from the vastus lateralis before supplementation, immediately after exercise, and 1hr post exercise under both conditions. There was no main effect of supplement on resistance exercise performance (p = 0.18). Muscle glycogen concentration decreased across time for both groups (p < 0.001). There was an interaction in serum glucose decreasing more during exercise in the carbohydrate condition (p = 0.026). An interaction occurred showing insulin decreased during exercise in the carbohydrate condition (p = 0.003). Also, there was a main effect of insulin being elevated with carbohydrate consumption (p = 0.027). Epinephrine was decreased across all time points after carbohydrate ingestion (p = 0.023). Carbohydrate supplementation before resistance exercise did not improve leg press performance to fatigue despite increased metabolic substrate availability. These results indicate that pre-exercise dietary carbohydrate will be utilized preferentially during exercise due to decreased epinephrine, decreased serum glucose, and increased insulin concentrations. However, the increases in glycolytic substrate availability will not increase exercise performance or glycogen content following 1hr of recovery.		[Wilburn, Dylan T.; Machek, Steven B.; Cardaci, Thomas D.; Hwang, Paul S.; Willoughby, Darryn S.] Baylor Univ, Dept Hlth Human Performance & Recreat, Exercise & Biochem Nutr Lab, Waco, TX 76798 USA; [Willoughby, Darryn S.] Baylor Univ, Dept Hlth Human Performance & Recreat, 1312 South 5th St, Waco, TX 76798 USA								14							Sport Sciences	WOS:000530037300006	41	Article; Article		
J	Neves, Coulter D.; Sponbeck, Joshua K.; Neves, Katy Andrews; Mitchell, Ulrike H.; Hunter, Iain; Johnson, Aaron Wayne								The Achilles Tendon Response to a Bout of Running is not affected by Triceps Surae Stretch Training in Runners								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				19	2			358	363					JUN 2020	2020	An acute bout of distance running decreases Achilles tendon CSA. The purpose of this study was to examine if three-week stretch training of the Achilles tendon alters the Achilles tendon thinning response to running. Thirty-three recreational runners were divided into a control group (n = 17) and an intervention group (n = 16). The intervention included a three-week soleus stretch (knee flexed) and gastrocnemius stretch (knee extended). Three gastrocnemius stretches and three soleus stretches were performed each day, six days per week. Stretches were held for 30 s per repetition for a total duration of 180 s per leg per day. Achilles tendon CSA and range of motion measures were completed pre and post-run before and after the three-week stretching intervention. The runs prior to and following the three-week stretch training intervention both resulted in a 6% decrease in Achilles tendon CSA (p < 0.0001). There was no interaction across time between control and intervention groups in CSA (p = 0.446). Only the intervention group experienced a significant increase in dorsiflexion range of motion following the stretch training (p = 0.009). We therefore conclude that even when an increased dorsiflexion range of motion occurs, three weeks of triceps surae stretching does not alter the response of the Achilles tendon CSA.		[Neves, Coulter D.; Sponbeck, Joshua K.; Neves, Katy Andrews; Mitchell, Ulrike H.; Hunter, Iain; Johnson, Aaron Wayne] Brigham Young Univ, Dept Exercise Sci, Provo, UT 84602 USA; [Johnson, Aaron Wayne] Brigham Young Univ, Dept Exercise Sci, Provo, UT 84602 USA								6							Sport Sciences	WOS:000530037300014	39	Article; Article		
J	Berger, Joshua; Ludwig, Oliver; Becker, Stephan; Backfisch, Marco; Kemmler, Wolfgang; Froehlich, Michael								Effects of an Impulse Frequency Dependent 10-Week Whole-body Electromyostimulation Training Program on Specific Sport Performance Parameters								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				19	2			271	281					JUN 2020	2020	The difference in the efficacy of altered stimulation parameters in whole-body-electromyostimulation (WB-EMS) training remains largely unexplored. However, higher impulse frequencies (>50 Hz) might be most adequate for strength gain. The aim of this study was to analyze potential differences in sports-related performance parameters after a 10-week WB-EMS training with different frequencies. A total of 51 untrained participants (24.9 +/- 3.9 years, 174 +/- 9 cm, 72.4 +/- 16.4 kg, BMI 23.8 +/- 4.1, body fat 24.7 +/- 8.1 %) was randomly divided into three groups: one inactive control group (CON) and two training groups. They completed a 10-week WB-EMS program of 1.5 sessions/week, equal content but different stimulation frequencies (training with 20 Hz (T20) vs. training with 85 Hz (T85)). Before and after intervention, all participants completed jumping (Counter Movement Jump (CMJ), Squat Jump (SJ), Drop Jump (DJ)), sprinting (5m, 10m, 30m), and strength tests (isometric trunk flexion/extension). Oneway ANOVA was applied to calculate parameter changes. Posthoc least significant difference tests were performed to identify group differences. Significant differences were identified for CMJ (p = 0.007), SJ (p = 0.022), trunk flexion (p = 0.020) and extension (p=.013) with significant group differences between both training groups and CON (not between the two training groups T20 and T85). A 10-week WB-EMS training leads to significant improvements of jump and strength parameters in untrained participants. No differences could be detected between the frequencies. Therefore, both stimulation frequencies can be regarded as adequate for increasing specific sport performance parameters. Further aspects as regeneration or long term effects by the use of different frequencies still need to be clarified.		[Berger, Joshua; Ludwig, Oliver; Becker, Stephan; Backfisch, Marco; Froehlich, Michael] Tech Univ Kaiserslautern, Dept Sports Sci, Kaiserslautern, Germany; [Kemmler, Wolfgang] Friedrich Alexander Univ Erlangen, Inst Med Phys, Erlangen, Germany; [Berger, Joshua] Tech Univ Kaiserslautern, Dept Sports Sci, Kaiserslautern, Germany								17							Sport Sciences	WOS:000530037300005	48	Article; Article		
J	Alizadeh, Shahab; Rayner, Machel; Mahmoud, M. Mamdouh Ibrahim; Behm, David G.								Push-Ups vs. Bench Press Differences in Repetitions and Muscle Activation between Sexes								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				19	2			289	297					JUN 2020	2020	Push-ups are an ubiquitous resistance training exercise. While exhibiting a relatively similar upper body motion to the bench press, there are substantial differences in repetitions when employing similar relative loads. The objective was to examine sex-related differences in repetitions and muscle activation associated with push-ups and bench press exercises. Twenty resistance-trained participants (10 men [22 +/- 6.1 years] and 10 [24 +/- 5.7 years] women) performed maximum push-up and bench press repetitions with loads relative to the body mass during a push-up. Electromyographic (EMG) electrodes were positioned on the middle and anterior deltoids, triceps and biceps brachii, and pectoralis major muscles and their relative (normalized to a maximum voluntary contraction) activity was compared between the two exercises performed to task failure. Both females (3.5 +/- 3.9 vs.15.5 +/- 8.0 repetitions; p = 0.0008) and males (12.0 +/- 6.3 vs. 25.6 +/- 5.2 repetitions; p < 0.0001) performed 77.4% and 53.1% less bench press than push-up repetitions respectively. Males significantly exceeded females with both push-ups (p = 0.01) and bench press (p = 0.004) repetitions. Significant linear regression equations were found for females (r(2) = 0.55; p = 0.03), and males (r(2) = 0.66; p < 0.0001) indicating that bench press repetitions increased 0.36 and 0.97 for each push-up repetition for females and males respectively. Triceps (p = 0.002) and biceps brachii (p = 0.03) EMG mean amplitude was significantly lower during the push-up concentric phase, while the anterior deltoid (p = 0.03) exhibited less activity during the bench press eccentric phase. The sex disparity in repetitions during these exercises indicates that a push-up provides a greater challenge for women than men and regression equations may be helpful for both sexes when formulating training programs.		[Alizadeh, Shahab; Rayner, Machel; Mahmoud, M. Mamdouh Ibrahim; Behm, David G.] Mem Univ Newfoundland, Sch Human Kinet & Recreat, St John, NF, Canada; [Behm, David G.] Mem Univ Newfoundland, Sch Human Kinet & Recreat, St John, NF, Canada								20							Sport Sciences	WOS:000530037300007	34	Article; Article		
J	Burkhardt, David; Born, Dennis-Peter; Singh, Navrag B.; Oberhofer, Katja; Carradori, Sergio; Sinistaj, Suzanne; Lorenzetti, Silvio								Key performance indicators and leg positioning for the kick-start in competitive swimmers								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				22	6			752	766		10.1080/14763141.2020.1761435			JUN 3 2023	2023	The aim of the study was to (1) assess the test-retest reliability of a novel performance analysis system for swimming (KiSwim) including an instrumented starting block and optical motion capture system, (2) identify key performance indicators (KPI) for the kick-start, (3) determine the most beneficial position of the strong leg and (4) investigate the effect of acute reversal of leg positioning. During three sessions, kick-starts of 15 competitive swimmers were investigated. Eighteen kinematic and kinetic parameters showed high reliability (ICC>0.75) from which principal component analysis identified seven KPI (i.e., time to 15 m, time on-block, depth at 7.5 m, horizontal take-off velocity, horizontal impulse back plate, horizontal peak force back plate and vertical peak force front plate). For the preferred start position, the back plate showed a higher horizontal peak force (0.71 vs. 0.96 x body mass;p < 0.001) and impulse (0.191 vs. 0.28Ns/BW;p < 0.001) compared to front plate. Acute reversal of the leg position reduced performance (i.e., increased time to 15 m and reduced horizontal take-off velocity). However, plate-specific kinetic analysis revealed a larger horizontal peak force (p < 0.001) and impulse (p < 0.001) for the back compared to the front plate in any start position investigated. Therefore, swimmers are encouraged to position the strong leg in the back.		[Burkhardt, David; Singh, Navrag B.; Oberhofer, Katja; Carradori, Sergio; Sinistaj, Suzanne; Lorenzetti, Silvio] Swiss Fed Inst Technol, Inst Biomech, Zurich, Switzerland; [Burkhardt, David; Born, Dennis-Peter] Swiss Swimming Federat, Sect Competit Sports, Bern, Switzerland; [Born, Dennis-Peter; Lorenzetti, Silvio] Swiss Fed Inst Sport, Sect Performance Sport, Magglingen, Switzerland; [Carradori, Sergio] Univ Basel, Dept Sport Exercise & Hlth, Basel, Switzerland; [Sinistaj, Suzanne] Univ Salzburg, Dept Sport Sci & Kinesiol, Hallein Rif, Austria; [Lorenzetti, Silvio] Swiss Fed Inst Technol, Inst Biomech, Zurich, Switzerland; [Lorenzetti, Silvio] Swiss Fed Inst Sport, Sect Performance Sport, Magglingen, Switzerland								28							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000541283400001	21	Article; Article		
J	Wannop, John William; Schrier, Nicole; Worobets, Jay; Stefanyshyn, Darren								Influence of forefoot bending stiffness on American football performance and metatarsophalangeal joint bending angle								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				22	5			704	714		10.1080/14763141.2020.1750682			MAY 4 2023	2023	Changes in forefoot bending stiffness have been shown to affect metatarsophalangeal peak bending angles as well as athletic performance. Increasing bending stiffness tends to reduce peak bending angles, which could potentially reduce hyperextension injuries such as turf toe. Limited information is available, however, on the efficacy of increasing forefoot bending stiffness on large-sized athletes such as those that participate in American Football, with prior studies being conducted on smaller athlete populations. Therefore, the purpose of this study was to determine the influence of increased forefoot bending stiffness on metatarsophalangeal joint extension and athletic performance of grid-iron football players. Ten varsity grid-iron football players performed four National Football League combine movements in a motion capture laboratory in three footwear conditions of varying bending stiffness: Soft (12.7 N/mm), Control (23.8 N/mm), Stiff (42.2 N/mm). None of the footwear conditions significantly altered the maximum metatarsophalangeal bending. Therefore, to reduce metatarsophalangeal hyperextension injuries in American football players a greater amount of forefoot bending stiffness may be required. Performance differences were present only during the five-metre sprint acceleration, with athletes having an improved performance in the Control and Stiff conditions. This improved performance was due to an increased horizontal impulse and improvements in power generation at the ankle joint.		[Wannop, John William; Schrier, Nicole; Worobets, Jay; Stefanyshyn, Darren] Univ Calgary, Human Performance Lab, Fac Kinesiol, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Wannop, John William] Univ Calgary, Human Performance Lab, Fac Kinesiol, Calgary, AB, Canada								3							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000541429900001	27	Article; Article		
J	Stronska, Katarzyna; Golas, Artur; Wilk, Michal; Zajac, Adam; Maszczyk, Adam; Stastny, Petr								The effect of targeted resistance training on bench press performance and the alternation of prime mover muscle activation patterns								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				21	10			1262	1276		10.1080/14763141.2020.1752790			NOV 26 2022	2022	Targeted muscle strengthening might improve performance or help overcome training stagnation; therefore, the aim of the present study was to investigate changes in muscle activity patterns before and after six weeks of targeted resistance training. Twenty-seven resistance-trained men were divided into three groups according to their prime mover activity, as measured by surface electromyography during a bench press (BP). Each group underwent a six-week block of targeted exercises for one of the following muscles: anterior deltoid (AD), pectoralis major (PM) or triceps brachii (TB). ANOVA showed that each group increased their 1 repetition maximum (1RM) (p < 0.05) and the activity of the exercised muscle group during an isometric bench press (p < 0.01) and during a dynamic bench press (p < 0.01) at 85% of the 1RM. During the isometric BP, the TB training group had an increase in TB activity in comparison to the other groups. Targeted muscle training is a useful method for muscle activity increase and increasing the maximum strength in complex exercise, when applied in activity-deficient muscle groups. Strengthening the TB elicits changes in all prime movers and results in TB activity domination during a bench press.		[Stronska, Katarzyna; Golas, Artur; Wilk, Michal; Zajac, Adam; Maszczyk, Adam] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Inst Sport Sci, Katowice, Poland; [Stastny, Petr] Charles Univ Prague, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Dept Sport Games, Prague, Czech Republic; [Stastny, Petr] Charles Univ Prague, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Dept Sport Games, Prague, Czech Republic								22							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000541277900001	46	Article; Article		
J	Mazza, Daniele; Iorio, Raffaele; Drogo, Piergiorgio; Gaj, Edoardo; Viglietta, Edoardo; Rossi, Giuseppe; Monaco, Edoardo; Ferretti, Andrea								Did the prevalence of suprascapular neuropathy in professional volleyball players decrease with the changes occurred in serving technique?								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				49	1			57	63		10.1080/00913847.2020.1766344			JAN 2 2021	2021	Objectives Suprascapular neuropathy is more frequent in volleyball as compared to other overhead sports. This study aims to report the actual prevalence of suprascapular neuropathy among elite volleyball players. The hypothesis is that becoming jump topspin serves the most common serving technique, suprascapular neuropathy reduced its frequency. Methods A total of 82 professional players were enrolled in the study. The presence of symptoms and the type of serve preferably performed were investigated. The strength and trophicity of the supraspinatus and infraspinatus muscles were evaluated. Patients with positive clinical findings underwent MRI of the shoulder. Results The jump topspin serve was found to be the most popular type of serve both in males and females. At physical examination, 9% of the males and 12% of the females presented with infraspinatus muscle hypotrophy. Each case was accompanied by external rotation weakness. None of them complained of pain or reduced performance when they played. MRI confirmed infraspinatus muscle atrophy in all subjects. Conclusion A lower prevalence of suprascapular neuropathy was found as compared with that previously reported in the 1980s and 1990s. A reduction in the popularity of the float serve seems to be a possible explanation. Thus, the jump topspin serve could be safe for suprascapular neuropathy and associated injuries in volleyball. The findings of this study should be considered by athletes and coaches for the prevention of activity-related injuries.		[Mazza, Daniele; Iorio, Raffaele; Drogo, Piergiorgio; Gaj, Edoardo; Viglietta, Edoardo; Monaco, Edoardo; Ferretti, Andrea] Univ Rome Sapienza, Dept Orthopaed & Traumatol, St Andrea Hosp, Rome, Italy; [Rossi, Giuseppe] Sports Sci & Med Inst Antonio Venerando, Dept Sport, Rome, Italy; [Mazza, Daniele] Univ Roma La Sapienza, St Andrea Hosp, Via Grottarossa 1035, I-00060 Rome, Formello, Italy								3							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000540856900001	47	Article; Article		
J	Lee, Sanghak; Suh, Young Ik								The severity of a sports-related accident and sponsorship effects: focusing on the fear appeal theory								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				22	2			293	311		10.1108/IJSMS-08-2019-0086			APR 6 2021	2021	Purpose This study aims to examine the influence of a sports-related accident and its severity on sponsorship effects, including brand recognition, attitude toward the sponsoring brand and purchase intention. Design/methodology/approach The fear appeal theory and sensation-seeking are applied as a theoretical framework. The research is carried out via an experiment using auto racing video footage and print material that manipulates the severity of accidents at three levels - no accident, an accident with a minor injury and an accident resulting in a fatality. Findings The analyses demonstrate that the severity of the accident elicits varying sponsorship effects. Sponsorship effects are maximized in a minor injury condition, while smaller sponsorship effects are garnered in the absence of an accident or during fatal injury conditions, as expected via the fear appeal theory. These results suggest that sports fans are excited by auto racing crashes, but are averse to witnessing a fatal accident. Research limitations/implications The participants of the experiment were all students. Consequently, the participants did not represent all sports fans. Only auto racing was examined as experiment stimuli. Different demographic characteristics (e.g. age, race, nationality) and sports could differently influence the relationships among the research variables. Practical implications Potential sponsors do not need to take a negative view of the dangers of sports accidents. Rather, it is recommended that such companies actively plan their sponsorship activities with the appropriate strategy. Originality/value The relationship between the severity of a sports-related accident and sponsorship effects has received little attention regarding its potential impact on brand recognition, attitude toward the sponsoring brand and purchase intention. The current study is the first known empirical research using the fear appeal theory in sports sponsorship. It investigates the severity of a sports-related accident and determines how that severity influences sponsorship effects in auto racing. This study provides a better understanding of the effects of an accident and its severity on sponsorship effects.		[Lee, Sanghak] Korea Aerosp Univ, Sch Business, Goyang, South Korea; [Suh, Young Ik] Univ West Georgia, Carrollton, GA USA; [Lee, Sanghak] Korea Aerosp Univ, Sch Business, Goyang, South Korea								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000536837600001	95	Article; Article		
J	Cripps, Ashley J.; Banyard, Harry G.; Woods, Carl T.; Joyce, Christopher; Hopper, Luke S.								Does the longitudinal development of physical and anthropometric characteristics associate with professional career attainment in adolescent Australian footballers?								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				15	4			506	511	1747954120927117	10.1177/1747954120927117			AUG 2020	2020	This study sought to longitudinally and retrospectively determine the relationship between professional career attainment and the development of anthropometric and physical qualities in junior Australian footballers. Eighty adolescent male Australian footballers from a single state academy previously selected onto an under 16 s talent development squad were classified by career attainment (professional team selection; n = 17 and non-selected; n = 63). Physical and anthropometric tests were conducted at the end of preseason during participation in under 16 and under 18 competitions. Tests included standing height, mass, stationary countermovement jumps, dynamic vertical jumps, 20-m sprints, agility and 20 m multistage fitness test. Both groups significantly improved all performance measures between the under 16 and under 18 levels. Athletes selected onto a professional team possessed significantly quicker 20-m sprint outcomes than non-selected athletes at both under 16 and under 18 levels, highlighting the importance of this physical capacity within talent development programmes. Binary logistic regression was unable to predict an effect of any measures on career attainment. An inability of the binary logistic regression to identify qualities predictive of long-term career success likely highlights limitations associated with utilising unidimensional models of assessment in talent identification practices. As such development coaches and sport scientists should be aware that while physical capacities play a role in career attainment outcomes, other factors, such as tactical understanding and technical skill are also likely to be impactful.		[Cripps, Ashley J.; Joyce, Christopher] Univ Notre Dame Australia, Sch Exercise & Hlth Sci, Fremantle, WA, Australia; [Banyard, Harry G.] Swinburne Univ Technol, Dept Hlth Sci, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Woods, Carl T.] Victoria Univ, Inst Hlth & Sport, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Hopper, Luke S.] Edith Cowan Univ, Western Australian Acad Performing Arts, Perth, WA, Australia; [Cripps, Ashley J.] Univ Notre Dame, Sch Hlth Sci, POB 1225, Fremantle, WA 6956, Australia								8							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000535847100001	27	Article; Article		
J	Gilal, Faheem Gul; Gilal, Naeem Gul; Tariq, Beenish; Gilal, Rehman Gul; Gilal, Rukhsana Gul; Gong, Zhenxing; Channa, Nisar Ahmed								Intergenerational differences in fans' motivation to watch the T20 world cup: a generation cohort theory perspective								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				22	2			197	219		10.1108/IJSMS-09-2019-0094			APR 6 2021	2021	Purpose Using two theoretical lenses - social identity theory and generation cohort theory - the present study analyzes the influence of sport motivations (i.e., patriotism, drama and excitement of the game, nostalgic associations, interest in star players and social influence) on the intentions to watch the International Cricket Council (ICC) Twenty-20 (T20) World Cup of three different generation cohorts (i.e., Generations X, Y and Z). Design/methodology/approach Data were collected from N = 499 cricket lovers from Pakistan based on a non-probability sampling technique. Exploratory factor analysis (EFA), confirmatory factor analysis (CFA), structural equation modeling (SEM) and multi-group modeling techniques were used as methods. Findings SEM results show that cricket fans' intentions to watch the T20 World Cup are positively influenced by patriotism, drama and excitement of the game, and social influence. The results of multi-group modeling reveal significant differences between Generation X-ers, Y-ers and Z-ers regarding the effect of sport motivations on their intentions to watch the ICC T20 World Cup. Specifically, our findings show that for X-ers, interest in star players and nostalgic associations are the main motivations behind watching the T20 World Cup, whereas drama and excitement appeared to be an important predictor for Y-ers, and patriotism and social influence are more likely to increase Z-ers' intentions to watch the T20 World Cup. Originality/value This study is the first of its kind to report the motivations of Generations X, Y and Z to watch the T20 World Cup.		[Gilal, Faheem Gul; Gilal, Rukhsana Gul; Channa, Nisar Ahmed] Sukkur IBA Univ, Dept Business Adm, Sukkur, Pakistan; [Gilal, Naeem Gul] Huazhong Univ Sci & Technol, Sch Management, Wuhan, Peoples R China; [Tariq, Beenish] Natl Univ Sci & Technol, NUST Business Sch, Islamabad, Pakistan; [Gilal, Rehman Gul] Shah Abdul Latif Univ, Dept Business Adm, Khairpur, Pakistan; [Gong, Zhenxing] Liaocheng Univ, Sch Business, Liaocheng, Shandong, Peoples R China; [Gilal, Faheem Gul] Sukkur IBA Univ, Dept Business Adm, Sukkur, Pakistan								25							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000536164300001	94	Article; Article		
J	Martins, Joao; Rodrigues, Antonio; Marques, Adilson; Cale, Lorraine; Carreiro da Costa, Francisco								Adolescents' Experiences and Perspectives on Physical Activity and Friend Influences Over Time								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				92	3			399	410		10.1080/02701367.2020.1739607			JUL 3 2021	2021	Purpose: Understanding friend influences on adolescents' PA, and how these change over time, is fundamental to developing interventions for promoting active lifestyles yet the latter in particular remains unexplored. This study explored the experiences and perspectives of physically active and inactive adolescents regarding the influence of their friends on their PA throughout childhood and adolescence.Methods: Following the completion of a questionnaire, 16 adolescents, 8 boys (4 physically inactive, 4 active) and 8 girls (4 inactive, 4 active), aged 17 +/- 1.0 years, were selected from two schools. A qualitative design was adopted whereby each adolescent was interviewed individually. Using the constant comparative method, the interviews were inductively and thematically analyzed.Results: Four main themes were identified: I)PA journeys; II)Friends provide PA benefits); III)Friends matter in PA, but change; IV)Against all odds-rising above others. Compared to the inactive, active adolescents perceived that their friends were fundamental to them becoming and remaining active, specifically in terms of: offering support to internalize an active sense of belonging in different contexts when family support diminished; providing opportunities to be active at key transition points; and helping them to overcome peer victimization.Conclusion: This study confirms the important role of friends in adolescents' PA, and provides new evidence concerning the changing patterns and influence of friends from childhood to late adolescence. Recommendations are made relating to the role of friends in youth PA with a view to improving the effectiveness of approaches to promoting active lifestyles.		[Martins, Joao; Rodrigues, Antonio; Marques, Adilson; Carreiro da Costa, Francisco] Univ Lisbon, Lisbon, Portugal; [Cale, Lorraine] Loughborough Univ, Loughborough, Leics, England; [Carreiro da Costa, Francisco] Univ Lusofona Humanidades & Tecnol, Lisbon, Portugal; [Martins, Joao] Univ Lisbon, Fac Motricidade Humana, Estr Costa, P-1499002 Lisbon, Portugal								17							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000539147000001	41	Article; Article		
J	Ae, Michiyoshi								The next steps for expanding and developing sport biomechanics Winner of the 2019 ISBS Geoffrey Dyson Award								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				19	6			701	722		10.1080/14763141.2020.1743745			NOV 1 2020	2020	This paper reviews a series of sport biomechanics research projects with long-term support of the Japan Association of Athletic Federations (JAAF) on the feedback loop of sport biomechanics. The JAAF supported these studies focusing on providing feedback to athletes and coaches based on biomechanical data. The primary topics of discussion are the standard motion model for teaching and coaching, inter-individual motion variation and deviation, and classification of athletes' motions. Additionally, a comment is presented on motion-decision criterion, or objective function for body segment recruitment with examples of running and jumping. This paper concludes with remarks on how to expand the research in sport biomechanics and how to bridge the gap between researchers and practitioners. It is advisable for sport biomechanists to further explore biomechanical principles of human movement from the viewpoint of sports, to mutually understand features of research and practice sides and to be more involved in performance analysis and improvement in sports techniques.		[Ae, Michiyoshi] Nippon Sport Sci Univ, Fac Sport Coaching Studies, Tokyo, Japan; [Ae, Michiyoshi] Nippon Sport Sci Univ, Fac Sport Coaching Studies, Tokyo, Japan								13							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000534283900001	38	Article; Article		
J	Lianopoulos, Yannis; Theodorakis, Nicholas D.; Tsigilis, Nikolaos; Gardikiotis, Antonis; Koustelios, Athanasios								Elevating self-esteem through sport team identification: a study about local and distant sport fans								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				21	4			695	718		10.1108/IJSMS-10-2019-0115			NOV 2 2020	2020	Purpose The concept of sport team identification has been widely used as a theoretical framework in explaining sport fan behavior. However, limited attention has been devoted to the consequences of distant (i.e., foreign) team identification. The purpose of the current research was to examine the way in which fans (local and distant) can increase their levels of collective and personal self-esteem due to their team identification. Design/methodology/approach Data were accumulated from three Greek websites (N = 742). Among them, 623 subjects were grouped as local and 119 as distant football fans. A structural invariance analysis was followed. Findings The results revealed how team identification, enduring team-related social connections, and basking in reflected glory are interrelated to affect collective and finally personal self-esteem. Moreover, no differences were found between local and distant fans regarding the paths from eam identification to collective self-esteem and from collective self-esteem to personal self-esteem. Originality/value This is one of the first endeavors to examine the psychological consequences of distant team identification and to test the invariance across local and distant fans concerning the mechanisms that their personal self-esteem can be enhanced because their psychological connection to their favorite sport team.		[Lianopoulos, Yannis; Theodorakis, Nicholas D.] Aristotle Univ Thessaloniki, Sch Phys Educ & Sport Sci Serres, Thessaloniki, Greece; [Tsigilis, Nikolaos; Gardikiotis, Antonis] Aristotle Univ Thessaloniki, Dept Journalism & Mass Media Commun, Thessaloniki, Greece; [Koustelios, Athanasios] Univ Thessaly, Dept Business Adm, Larisa, Greece; [Lianopoulos, Yannis] Aristotle Univ Thessaloniki, Sch Phys Educ & Sport Sci Serres, Thessaloniki, Greece								30							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000532858100001	116	Article; Article		
J	Platvoet, Sebastiaan W. J.; Opstoel, Katrijn; Pion, Johan; Elferink-Gemser, Marije T.; Visscher, Chris								Performance characteristics of selected/deselected under 11 players from a professional youth football academy								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				15	5-6			762	771	1747954120923980	10.1177/1747954120923980			DEC 2020	2020	This study aimed to determine whether players selected for the under 11 team of a professional youth football academy outperform their deselected peers in physical, technical and gross motor coordination skills, or in psycho-social capacities. Of the young players active at different amateur clubs yearly 2% were scouted to participate at trainings and matches from an academy before the first objective baseline testing (season 1 n = 54 boys, season 2 n = 49, age: 9.25 +/- 0.46). Most of the scouted players (n = 103) were born in the first quarter of the year (47.6%) and started playing football at a young age (4.80 +/- 0.84). Mann-Whitney U tests showed that the selected under 11 players (n = 31) from the reduced pool outperformed their deselected peers (n = 72) in the 30-m slalom sprint, dribble test and Loughborough soccer passing test, and on sport learning-, motor-, creative- and interpersonal capacity (P < 0.05). A discriminant analysis resulted in a significant discriminant function (Wilks' ? = 0.673, df = 16 and P = 0.002) with 69.6% of players classified correctly. In sum, the current system, tends to scout 9-year old soccer players with multiple years of soccer experience, and well-developed motor skills, who are predominantly born in the first quarter of the year. Of those players, the ones with better physical and technical skills, who are believed to have most potential to become elite in the future are selected. However, 25 of the players with a high probability of being selected were deselected. Whether this system is appropriate serves a broader ethical discussion within contemporary society.		[Platvoet, Sebastiaan W. J.; Opstoel, Katrijn; Pion, Johan] HAN Univ Appl Sci, Sport & Exercise Studies, Nijmegen, Netherlands; [Opstoel, Katrijn] Univ Utrecht, Utrecht, Netherlands; [Pion, Johan] Univ Ghent, Dept Movement & Sports Sci, Ghent, Belgium; [Elferink-Gemser, Marije T.; Visscher, Chris] Univ Groningen, Univ Med Ctr Groningen, Ctr Human Movement Studies, Groningen, Netherlands; [Platvoet, Sebastiaan W. J.] HAN Univ Appl Sci, Heyendaalseweg 141, NL-6802 EJ Arnhem, Netherlands								17							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000532752300001	59	Article; Article		
J	Velicia Martin, Felix; Toledo, Luis Dona; Palos-Sanchez, Pedro								How deep is your love? Brand love analysis applied to football teams								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				21	4			669	693		10.1108/IJSMS-10-2019-0112			NOV 2 2020	2020	Purpose The central objective is to determine the main components of a brand that become a "beloved" brand in the minds of consumers applied to football teams. Design/methodology/approach The authors conducted a quantitative causal study using partial least squares (PLS) with a sample of 824 participants using an online questionnaire. Findings Brand love is a construct composed of five dimensions: passion, connection with the brand, intrinsic rewards, emotional attachment and thinking and frequent use. It also demonstrates that the consequences of brand love for football teams are loyalty, willingness to invest and word-of-mouth communication. Research limitations/implications Managers of large football clubs must emphasize achieving an emotional connection with their fans and develop their marketing strategies on building long-term emotional relationships which will result in greater investments. Practical implications Given the competitive and international environment of the sports sector, the conclusions will be of use for managers of sports clubs and companies that develop sponsorship strategies. Another important contribution is the theoretical contribution of the brand in football teams and the psychological understanding of fans as consumers. Originality/value This is the first attempt to establish a model of the background and causes of brand love with respect to football teams and a context also not analysed as is the Spanish one. The analysis does not only focus on the emotional relationship but also include how the possible investment of the fans is modelled.		[Velicia Martin, Felix] Univ Seville, Dept Mkt, Fac Econ & Business Sci, Seville, Spain; [Toledo, Luis Dona] Univ Granada, Dept Mkt & Market Res, Granada, Spain; [Palos-Sanchez, Pedro] Univ Seville, Fac Econ & Business Sci, Seville, Spain; [Toledo, Luis Dona] Univ Granada, Dept Mkt & Market Res, Granada, Spain								27							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000532705500001	117	Article; Article		
J	Quittmann, Oliver J.; Abel, Thomas; Albracht, Kirsten; Strueder, Heiko K.								Biomechanics of all-out handcycling exercise: kinetics, kinematics and muscular activity of a 15-s sprint test in able-bodied participants								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				21	10			1200	1223		10.1080/14763141.2020.1745266			NOV 26 2022	2022	This study aims to quantify the kinematics, kinetics and muscular activity of all-out handcycling exercise and examine their alterations during the course of a 15-s sprint test. Twelve able-bodied competitive triathletes performed a 15-s all-out sprint test in a recumbent racing handcycle that was attached to an ergometer. During the sprint test, tangential crank kinetics, 3D joint kinematics and muscular activity of 10 muscles of the upper extremity and trunk were examined using a power metre, motion capturing and surface electromyography (sEMG), respectively. Parameters were compared between revolution one (R1), revolution two (R2), the average of revolution 3 to 13 (R3) and the average of the remaining revolutions (R4). Shoulder abduction and internal-rotation increased, whereas maximal shoulder retroversion decreased during the sprint. Except for the wrist angles, angular velocity increased for every joint of the upper extremity. Several muscles demonstrated an increase in muscular activation, an earlier onset of muscular activation in crank cycle and an increased range of activation. During the course of a 15-s all-out sprint test in handcycling, the shoulder muscles and the muscles associated to the push phase demonstrate indications for short-duration fatigue. These findings are helpful to prevent injuries and improve performance in all-out handcycling.		[Quittmann, Oliver J.; Abel, Thomas; Albracht, Kirsten; Strueder, Heiko K.] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Movement & Neurosci, Cologne, Germany; [Abel, Thomas] European Res Grp Disabil Sport, Cologne, Germany; [Albracht, Kirsten] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Biomech & Orthopaed, Cologne, Germany; [Albracht, Kirsten] Univ Appl Sci Aachen, Fac Med Engn & Technomath, Aachen, Germany; [Quittmann, Oliver J.] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Movement & Neurosci, Cologne, Germany								15							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000532462000001	42	Article; Article		
J	Monteiro, Ricardo; Monteiro, Diogo; Nunes, Celia; Torregrossa, Miquel; Travassos, Bruno								Identification of key career indicators in Portuguese football players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				15	4			533	541	1747954120923198	10.1177/1747954120923198			AUG 2020	2020	The aim of this study was to describe and identify the weight of some key career indicators (KCI) on the competitive level of retirement (professional vs. non-professional) of Portuguese football players. Three thousand five hundred retired Portuguese football players born between 1950 and 1989, and registered on Portuguese Football Federation were considered in this study. Descriptive analysis and a multivariable binary logistic regression model were performed to assess the relationship between the mastery stage development variables and the competitive level of retirement of football players. The results highlighted that the KCI first senior registration level, number of seasons in mastery stage, number of total games as senior player, number of total games in retirement season, and the age of the last best result achieved contribute to explain and predict the competitive level of retirement of Portuguese football players. The tendencies identified and their impact on the competitive level of retirement could be important implications on awareness and definition of management and support programs of players' careers.		[Monteiro, Ricardo; Travassos, Bruno] Univ Beira Interior, Dept Sport Sci, Covilha, Portugal; [Monteiro, Diogo] Escola Super Desporto Rio Maior ESDRM IPSantarem, Rio Major, Portugal; [Monteiro, Diogo; Travassos, Bruno] Ctr Invest Desporto Saude & Desenvolvimento Huma, CIDESD, Vila Real, Portugal; [Nunes, Celia] Univ Beira Interior, Dept Math, Covilha, Portugal; [Nunes, Celia] Univ Beira Interior, Ctr Math & Applicat, Covilha, Portugal; [Torregrossa, Miquel] Univ Autonoma Barcelona, Dept Psicol Bas Evolut & Educ, Barcelona, Spain; [Travassos, Bruno] Portuguese Football Assoc, Portugal Football Sch, FPF, Covilha, Portugal; [Travassos, Bruno] Univ Beira Interior UBI, Dept Sport Sci, P-6200001 Covilha, Portugal								10							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000532780000001	38	Article; Article		
J	Otte, Fabian W.; Davids, Keith; Millar, Sarah-Kate; Klatt, Stefanie								Specialist role coaching and skill training periodisation: A football goalkeeping case study								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				15	4			562	575	1747954120922548	10.1177/1747954120922548			AUG 2020	2020	In sports like association football, professional teams are increasingly devoting resources to the role-based development of individual athletes and sub-groups. By employing 'specialist coaches' into athlete-support structures, clubs aim to facilitate individualised athlete training programs to enhance performance preparation as well as skill learning and talent development. Here, we discuss how contemporary pedagogical training approaches, like Nonlinear Pedagogy and the Constraints-Led approach, can enhance effectiveness of specialist role-based athlete development programs to facilitate performance functionality. We argue the need for a model of specialist role-based coaching practice in high performance sports organisations, based on a unified theoretical rationale, such as ecological dynamics. To exemplify the nature of specialist role-based coaching, a case study addresses how Nonlinear Pedagogy and Constraints-Led approach are being used for training professional football goalkeepers in an U23 years age group. Integrating key concepts from ecological dynamics, allied to principles of Nonlinear Pedagogy and the Constraints-Led approach, common skill training principles for specialist role coaches are highlighted. These illustrate the use of the recently introduced 'Periodization of Skill Training' framework for specialist role coaching, practically exemplifying a way to harness opportunities for performance enhancement and individualised talent development in the football goalkeeping context.		[Otte, Fabian W.; Klatt, Stefanie] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Exercise Training & Sport Informat, Dept Cognit & Team Racket Sport Res, Sportpk Mungersdorf 6, D-50933 Cologne, Germany; [Davids, Keith] Sheffield Hallam Univ, Sport & Phys Act Res Ctr, Sheffield, S Yorkshire, England; [Millar, Sarah-Kate] Auckland Univ Technol, Fac Hlth & Environm Sci, Dept Coaching Hlth & Phys Educ, Auckland, New Zealand; [Klatt, Stefanie] Univ Rostock, Inst Sports Sci, Rostock, Germany; [Otte, Fabian W.] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Exercise Training & Sport Informat, Dept Cognit & Team Racket Sport Res, Sportpk Mungersdorf 6, D-50933 Cologne, Germany								23							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000532761600001	42	Article; Article		
J	Moore, Chandler; Donovan, Luke; Murray, Amanda M.; Armstrong, Charles; Glaviano, Neal R.								External ankle taping does not alter lower extremity side-step cut and straight sprint biomechanics in young adult males								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				19	3			395	410		10.1080/14763141.2018.1493743			MAY 3 2020	2020	Lateral ankle sprains (LAS) are one of the most common musculoskeletal injuries and as a response, clinicians often use external ankle taping prophylactically to reduce the prevalence of injuries. External ankle taping techniques have been shown to significantly reduce passive ankle range of motion; however, there is limited research on the effects of external ankle taping on lower extremity kinematics or kinetics during sport specific tasks. Therefore, our objective was to compare the effects of external ankle taping on ankle, knee and hip kinematics and kinetics compared to no taping during an anticipated sidestep cutting task and a straight sprint task. We conducted a cross-over laboratory study with 16 healthy males. Three-dimensional kinematics and kinetics were collected with a motion capture system and in-ground force plate during 5 trials of a sprint and anticipated side-step cut with or without external ankle taping. Group means and associated 90% confidence intervals were plotted across 100 data points for each task, significance being identified when the confidence intervals did not overlap for three consecutive data points. No significant kinetic or kinematic differences were identified between conditions for the tasks. External ankle taping does not influence lower extremity biomechanics during a control cutting task.		[Moore, Chandler; Murray, Amanda M.; Armstrong, Charles; Glaviano, Neal R.] Univ Toledo, Coll Hlth & Human Serv, Sch Exercise & Rehabil Sci, 2801 W Bancroft St, Toledo, OH 43606 USA; [Donovan, Luke] Univ N Carolina, Coll Hlth & Human Serv, Dept Kinesiol, Charlotte, NC USA; [Glaviano, Neal R.] Univ Toledo, Coll Hlth & Human Serv, Sch Exercise & Rehabil Sci, 2801 W Bancroft St, Toledo, OH 43606 USA								9							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000527152300010	34	Article; Article		
J	Callaghan, Samuel J.; Lockie, Robert G.; Andrews, Warren A.; Chipchase, Robert F.; Nimphius, Sophia								The relationship between inertial measurement unit-derived 'force signatures' and ground reaction forces during cricket pace bowling								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				19	3			307	321		10.1080/14763141.2018.1465581			MAY 3 2020	2020	This study assessed the reliability and validity of segment measured accelerations in comparison to front foot contact (FFC) ground reaction force (GRF) during the delivery stride for cricket pace bowlers. Eleven recreational bowlers completed a 30-delivery bowling spell. Trunk- and tibia-mounted inertial measurement units (IMUs) were used to measure accelerations, converted to force, for comparisons to force plate GRF discrete measures. These measures included peak force, impulse and the continuous force-time curve in the vertical and braking (horizontal) planes. Reliability and validity was determined by intra-class correlation coefficients (ICC), coefficient of variation (CV), Bland-Altman plots, paired sample t-tests, Pearson's correlation and one-dimensional (1D) statistical parametrical mapping (SPM). All ICC (0.90-0.98) and CV (4.23-7.41%) were acceptable, except for tibia-mounted IMU braking peak force (CV = 12.44%) and impulse (CV = 18.17%) and trunk vertical impulse (CV = 17.93%). Bland-Altman plots revealed wide limits of agreement between discrete IMU force signatures and force plate GRF. The 1D SPM outlined numerous significant (p < 0.01) differences between trunk- and tibia-located IMU-derived measures and force plate GRF traces in vertical and braking (horizontal) planes. The trunk- and tibia-mounted IMUs appeared to not represent the GRF experienced during pace bowling FFC when compared to a gold-standard force plate.		[Callaghan, Samuel J.] Kingston Univ, Sch Life Sci Pharm & Chem, London, England; [Callaghan, Samuel J.; Nimphius, Sophia] Edith Cowan Univ, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, Ctr Sports & Exercise Sci Res, Joondalup, Australia; [Callaghan, Samuel J.; Andrews, Warren A.; Chipchase, Robert F.] Western Australian Cricket Assoc, High Performance Dept, Perth, WA, Australia; [Lockie, Robert G.] Calif State Univ Fullerton, Dept Kinesiol, Fullerton, CA 92634 USA; [Callaghan, Samuel J.] Kingston Univ, Sch Life Sci Pharm & Chem, London, England; [Callaghan, Samuel J.] Edith Cowan Univ, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, Ctr Sports & Exercise Sci Res, Joondalup, Australia; [Callaghan, Samuel J.] Western Australian Cricket Assoc, High Performance Dept, Perth, WA, Australia								23							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000527152300003	47	Article; Article		
J	Barge-Gil, Andres; Garcia-Hiernaux, Alfredo								Staking in Sports Betting Under Unknown Probabilities: Practical Guide for Profitable Bettors								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				21	6			593	609	1527002520921227	10.1177/1527002520921227			AUG 2020	2020	Kelly staking has been proven to maximize long-term bankroll growth of bettors with positive expected yield (profitable bettors). However, it demands for an estimation of the true probabilities for each event. Thus, many sport tipsters opt for simpler flat (unit-loss) or unit-win staking plans. We analyze under which assumptions these strategies correspond to the Kelly method and propose a different staking plan, unit-impact, under the hypothesis that it fits better with Kelly's. We test our predictions using data of professional tipsters from the betting database pyckio.com. Results show empirical support for our hypothesis.		[Barge-Gil, Andres] Univ Complutense Madrid, DANAE, GRIPICO, Campus Somosaguas S-N, Madrid 28040, Spain; [Barge-Gil, Andres; Garcia-Hiernaux, Alfredo] Univ Complutense Madrid, ICAE, Campus Somosaguas S-N, Madrid 28040, Spain; [Garcia-Hiernaux, Alfredo] Univ Complutense Madrid, DANAE, Madrid, Spain; [Barge-Gil, Andres] Univ Complutense Madrid, DANAE, GRIPICO, Campus Somosaguas S-N, Madrid 28040, Spain; [Barge-Gil, Andres] Univ Complutense Madrid, ICAE, Campus Somosaguas S-N, Madrid 28040, Spain								5							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000532756500001	25	Article; Article		
J	Yim, Brian H.; Byon, Kevin K.								Critical factors in the sport consumption decision making process of millennial fans: a revised model of goal-directed behavior								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				21	3			427	447		10.1108/IJSMS-03-2019-0031			AUG 3 2020	2020	Purpose The purpose of this study was to examine the millennial fans decision-making process in connection with various sport consumption behaviors (i.e. game attendance, TV viewing, participation in online activities, and participation in social media activities) using a modified model of goal-directed behavior (i.e. Sport Fan MGB). Design/methodology/approach We collected data using Amazon Mechanical Turk (N = 222) to test the hypothesized model. Confirmatory factor analysis (CFA) was used to examine the psychometric properties of the measurement model, and structural equation modeling (SEM) was employed to test the hypotheses. Findings Sport Fan MGB was found have good psychometric properties. In addition, the findings indicate that the Sport Fan MGB explained various millennial fan behaviors (i.e., event attendance, TV viewing, online activity participation, and social media activity participation). Originality/value This paper examined the validity of the Sport Fan MGB and improved the predictability of the millennial fans' sport consumption behavior decision-making process.		[Yim, Brian H.] Kent State Univ, Sch Fdn Leadership & Adm, Kent, OH 44242 USA; [Byon, Kevin K.] Indiana Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Bloomington, IN 47405 USA; [Yim, Brian H.] Kent State Univ, Sch Fdn Leadership & Adm, Kent, OH 44242 USA								26							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000530321600001	65	Article; Article		
J	O'Connor, Siobhan; Warrington, Giles; O'Brien, Shane; McDermott, Elaine; McGoldrick, Adrian; Pugh, Jennifer; Cullen, SarahJane								Injuries outside of horseracing: is it time to focus on injury prevention of jockeys outside of races?								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				49	1			45	50		10.1080/00913847.2020.1760693			JAN 2 2021	2021	Objectives: Falls and injuries are frequent in professional horseracing. However, professional jockeys spend a large part of their week in horse-related activities outside of racing such as schooling, exercise riding, and yard-related activities. The injury risk related to these activities remains largely unknown internationally. This study aimed to identify the injury prevalence and injury profile of flat and jump jockeys during non-racing activities. Methods: In total 45.6% and 38.5% of all licensed Irish professional flat and jump jockeys completed a cross-sectional self-recall questionnaire examining injuries that occurred outside of racing during 2018. Injury proportion, repeat incidence proportion, and descriptive statistics were calculated. Results: Fifteen percent of professional jockeys sustained an injury outside of a race, half of those injured receiving at least another injury in 2018 and 66.52 injuries per 1,000 falls were noted. Injuries frequently occurred to the upper limb (36.67%), with fractures common (32.00%). Most injuries occurred due to a fall (60.00%) and 77.27% occurred in the gallops. Half of injuries resulted in the jockey missing racing, with 31.00 +/- 47.18 (4-180) days lost on average. Twenty-three percent of jockeys attended hospital and 16.67% required surgery due to injury. Interestingly, just under a third did not report their injury to anyone. Conclusion: Injuries to professional jockeys, whilst not as frequent outside of racing, tend to be serious and can affect jockeys financially and impact their availability to ride. Prioritizing injury prevention strategies to maximize availability of jockeys to race is important. Education on the importance of reporting all injuries regardless of where they occur is important to ensure their management and rehabilitation.		[O'Connor, Siobhan; O'Brien, Shane; McDermott, Elaine] Dublin City Univ, Ctr Injury Prevent & Performance, Athlet Therapy & Training, A144b, Dublin 9, Ireland; [Warrington, Giles] Univ Limerick, Fac Educ Hlth Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Limerick, Ireland; [Warrington, Giles] Univ Limerick, Fac Educ Hlth Sci, Hlth Res Inst, Limerick, Ireland; [McGoldrick, Adrian; Pugh, Jennifer] Irish Horse Racing Regulatory Board, Curragh, Kildare, Ireland; [Cullen, SarahJane] Waterford Inst Technol, Dept Sport & Exercise Sci, Waterford, Ireland; [O'Connor, Siobhan] Dublin City Univ, Ctr Injury Prevent & Performance, Athlet Therapy & Training, A144b, Dublin 9, Ireland								9							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000532028100001	21	Article; Article		
J	Shahraki, Sima Forouzandeh; Minoonejad, Hooman; Tabrizi, Yousef Moghadas								Comparison of some intrinsic risk factors of shoulder injury in three phases of menstrual cycle in collegiate female athletes								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				43				195	203		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.02.010			MAY 2020	2020	Objectives: present study aims to investigate the changes in the shoulder joint stability factors during the menstrual cycle. Design: cross-sectional study; Setting: laboratory. Participants: 15 healthy collegiate female athletes with normal menstrual cycles. Main outcome measures: shoulder strength, proprioception, laxity and functional stability were the primary outcomes. Participants were assessed in three phases (mense, ovulation, midluteal (day 21) by 4 different categories of tests, each designed for a different factor. Shapiro-Wilk Test was used to determine normality of data, ANOVA and Friedman Test were used to compare results. Significance level and alpha were considered 95 percent and >= 0.05, respectively. Data shown a relation between proprioception, strength and menstrual cycle. Results: shoulder strength was significantly increased in ovulation phase compared to other phases (p <0.5) (effect size >0.14). Proprioception was significantly decreased in luteal phase than in mense and ovulation phases (p < 0.5) (effect size >0.14). Finally, ligament laxity and functional stability showed no change in all phases (p < 0.5). Conclusion: Menstrual cycle and sexual hormones affect muscle strength and proprioception of shoulder joint, but have no effect on ligament laxity and functional stability. (C) 2020 Published by Elsevier Ltd.		[Shahraki, Sima Forouzandeh; Minoonejad, Hooman; Tabrizi, Yousef Moghadas] Univ Tehran, Fac Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Dept Hlth & Sport Med, Tehran, Iran; [Minoonejad, Hooman] Univ Tehran, Fac Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Enqhelab Sq,North Kargar St, Tehran, Iran								14							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000531082200026	48	Article; Article		
J	Pires, Telma; Pires, Patricia; Moreira, Helena; Gabriel, Ronaldo; Viana, Sara; Viana, Rui								Assessment of pelvic floor muscles in sportswomen: Quality of life and related factors								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				43				151	156		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.02.015			MAY 2020	2020	Objectives: To evaluate Maximum Voluntary Contraction (MVC) of the Pelvic Floor Muscles (PFM) in sportswomen, to observe the urinary symptoms and their impact on the Quality of Life (QoL). Design: Observational cross-sectional study. Setting: Gyms and teams in the North of Portugal. Participants: Sportswomen (n = 197). Main outcome measures: The measurement was performed using a manometer. The sportswomen were instructed to perform 3 MVC of the perineum, held for 3 s. The Kings Health Questionnaire (KHQ) was used to evaluate urinary symptoms and the QoL of the sportswomen. Results: Age significantly influenced (p < 0.05) the QoL in all domains. An increase in BMI was also significantly associated with a decrease in the QoL. MVC values had a highly significant effect on the overall QoL and all domains, including a reduction in urinary symptoms. The weekly time of physical activity was associated with a better QoL in symptomatology. The practice of high-impact activities decreased the QoL (compared to low-impact activities). The vaginal resting pressure values ranged from 1.60 to 59.80 (24.34 +/- 11.00). Conclusions: Age, BMI and high-impact sports appear to be the leading factors that promote the onset of SUI, which in turn decrease the QoL in sportswomen. There was a positive association between MVC and weekly time of physical activity in the QoL. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Pires, Telma; Pires, Patricia; Moreira, Helena; Gabriel, Ronaldo] Univ Tras Os Montes & Alto Douro, Dept Sports Sci, Vila Real, Portugal; [Viana, Sara; Viana, Rui] Univ Fernando Pessoa, Dept Hlth Sci, Porto, Portugal; [Pires, Telma] UTAD Univ Tras Os Montes & Alto Douro, Vila Real 5000801, Portugal								9							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000531082200020	41	Article; Article		
J	San-Antolin, Marta; Rodriguez-Sanz, David; Lopez-Lopez, Daniel; Romero-Morales, Carlos; Carbajales-Lopez, Julia; Becerro-de-Bengoa-Vallejo, Ricardo; Elena Losa-Iglesias, Marta; Calvo-Lobo, Cesar								Depression levels and symptoms in athletes with chronic gastrocnemius myofascial pain: A case-control study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				43				166	172		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.03.002			MAY 2020	2020	Objective: To determine the influence of depression symptoms and levels in athletes with gastrocnemius myofascial pain with respect to healthy athletes. In addition, to determine a prediction model for kinesiophobia symptoms based on descriptive data and gastrocnemius myofascial pain presence. Design: Secondary case-control. Setting: Outpatient clinic. Participants: A sample of 50 athletes was recruited and divided into athletes with chronic gastrocnemius myofascial pain (n = 25) and healthy athletes (n = 25). Main outcome measurements: Depression symptoms scores and levels were self-reported by athletes using the Beck Depression Inventory - II (BDI-II). Results: Statistically significant differences for depression symptoms scores (P = 0.011) with a moderate effect size (d = 0.77) and depression levels (P = 0.036) were found between both groups showing greater depression symptoms and levels in athletes with gastrocnemius myofascial pain (13.00 +/- 13.50 points; range from 0 to 28 points) versus healthy athletes (4.00 +/- 7.00 points; range from 0 to 19 points). Higher depression symptoms scores of BDI-II were only predicted by the presence of gastrocnemius myofascial pain in athletes (R-2 = 0.134; beta = +5.360; F-[1,F-48] = 7.428; P = 0.009). Conclusions: Greater depression symptoms and levels were exhibited for athletes with gastrocnemius myofascial pain compared to healthy athletes. In addition, depression score of athletes was only predicted by the presence of gastrocnemius myofascial pain. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[San-Antolin, Marta] Univ Europea Madrid, Dept Psychol, Madrid, Spain; [Rodriguez-Sanz, David; Becerro-de-Bengoa-Vallejo, Ricardo; Calvo-Lobo, Cesar] Univ Complutense Madrid, Fac Enfermeria Fisioterapia & Podol, Madrid, Spain; [Lopez-Lopez, Daniel] Univ A Coruna, Fac Nursing & Podiatry, Dept Hlth Sci, Res Hlth & Podiatry Grp, La Coruna, Spain; [Romero-Morales, Carlos] Univ Europea Madrid, Fac Sport Sci, Madrid, Spain; [Carbajales-Lopez, Julia; Elena Losa-Iglesias, Marta] Univ Rey Juan Carlos, Fac Hlth Sci, Alcorcon, Spain; [Rodriguez-Sanz, David] Univ Complutense Madrid, Fac Enfermeria Fisioterapia & Podol, Madrid, Spain								5							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000531082200022	54	Article; Article		
J	Wilke, Jan; Vogel, Oliver; Ungricht, Sandra								Can we measure perceptual-cognitive function during athletic movement? A framework for and reliability of a sports-related testing battery								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				43				120	126		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.02.016			MAY 2020	2020	Objectives: Perceptual-cognitive function (PCF) has been linked to performance and injury risk. However, to date, research used digitalized or pen-and-paper-based PCF tests without major motor components. This study provides a rationale and a testing battery for the measurement of PCF during sports-related movement. Design: Test-Retest. Setting: University. Participants: Thirteen healthy, active individuals (8 females, 27 +/- 4 years). Main outcome measures: Participants twice (5-min interval) completed six motor-cognitive tasks using a sensor-based system with LED lights. Four tests focussed on simple movements and relatively isolated PCF (reaction, choice-reaction, memory span, stop-signal), two represented more multifaceted and complex tasks (reactive agility, run-decide). Test-retest reliability was determined with the intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC). Results: All tests, except for one sub-dimension of the stop-signal test (upper limb, error count), displayed at least sufficient or higher reproducibility (ICC>.5, p < .05): Test-retest reliability was moderate for one (stop-signal), moderate to high for three (reaction, choice-reaction, run-decide, memory span) and excellent for one (reactive agility) of the tasks. Conclusions: The presented tests display moderate-to-high reliability and can be used in clinical and scientific settings. Future research should elucidate its predictive value regarding performance and injury as well as its association with the results of conventional PCF tests not incorporating movement. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Wilke, Jan; Vogel, Oliver; Ungricht, Sandra] Goethe Univ, Dept Sports Med, Ginnheimer Landstr 39, Frankfurt 60487, Germany; [Wilke, Jan] Goethe Univ, Dept Sports Med, Ginnheimer Landstr 39, Frankfurt 60487, Germany								32							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000531082200016	23	Article; Article		
J	Hoch, Johanna M.; Hartzell, Jacob; Kosik, Kyle B.; Cramer, Robert J.; Gribble, Phillip A.; Hoch, Matthew C.								Continued validation and known groups validity of the Quick-FAAM: Inclusion of participants with chronic ankle instability and ankle sprain copers								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				43				84	88		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.02.012			MAY 2020	2020	Objective: To examine the factor structure and validity of the Quick-FAAM in individuals with chronic ankle instability (CAI) and those classified as ankle sprain copers (ASC). Design: Cross-sectional. Setting: Laboratory. Participants: Adult participants were included in both groups based on previously established criteria. Main outcome measure(s): The 12-item Quick-FAAM is scored on a 5-point Likert scale were scores are converted to a percentage (0-100%), and greater scores indicate greater function. The Cumberland Ankle Instability Tool (CAIT) is a 9-item scale used to assess impairments in individuals with a history of ankle sprain. Scores range from 0 to 30, and greater scores indicate greater impairment levels. Confirmatory factory analyses, internal consistency, and concurrent validity were determined. Known-groups validity and differences in scores between groups were examined. Alpha was set at p < 0.05. Results: The instruments were strongly correlated (r = 0.76, p < 0.001), the Quick-FAAM internal consistency remained high (alpha = 0.94) and the single factor was confirmed. The cutoff score differentiating between the groups was 94.79%. Conclusions: The Quick-FAAM is a valid, shortened version of the FAAM. It also has the ability to discriminate between individuals with CAI and those classified as ASC. The Quick-FAAM should be considered for future use with individuals who have ankle sprain history. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Hoch, Johanna M.] Univ Kentucky, 206A Charles Wethington Bldg, Lexington, KY 40536 USA; [Hartzell, Jacob; Hoch, Matthew C.] Univ Kentucky, 214 Charles Wethington Bldg, Lexington, KY 40536 USA; [Kosik, Kyle B.] Univ Kentucky, 206B Charles Wethington Bldg, Lexington, KY 40536 USA; [Cramer, Robert J.] Univ North Carolina Charlotte, Dept Publ Hlth Sci, 9201 Univ City Blvd, Charlotte, NC USA; [Gribble, Phillip A.] Univ Kentucky, 206C Charles Wethington Bldg, Lexington, KY 40536 USA; [Hoch, Johanna M.] Univ Kentucky, 206A Charles Wethington Bldg, Lexington, KY 40536 USA; [Hoch, Johanna M.] Old Dominion Univ, Norfolk, VA 23529 USA								9							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000531082200012	28	Article; Article		
J	Verbrugghe, Jonas; Agten, Anouk; Stevens, Sjoerd; Eijnde, Bert O.; Vandenabeele, Frank; Roussel, Nathalie; De Baets, Liesbet; Timmermans, Annick								Disability, kinesiophobia, perceived stress, and pain are not associated with trunk muscle strength or aerobic capacity in chronic nonspecific low back pain								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				43				77	83		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.02.007			MAY 2020	2020	Objectives: To investigate to which extent disability, psychological and pain-related factors are associated with the outcomes of an isometric trunk muscle strength test and a cardiopulmonary exercise test in persons with chronic nonspecific low back pain (CNSLBP). Design: Cross-sectional study. Setting: REVAL Rehabilitation Research Center (Hasselt, Belgium). Participants: Persons with CNSLBP. Main outcome measures: Questionnaires concerning disability, patient specific functioning, kinesiophobia, perceived stress, pain intensity, and central sensitization were recorded. Outcomes of an isometric trunk strength test (maximum back and abdominal torque) and cardiopulmonary exercise test (VO(2)max) were assessed. Multivariate linear regression models determined factors explaining outcome variance. Results: Data of 101 persons (39 males, mean age: 44.2y (SD = 9.6)) was assessed. Neither disability, nor psychological, nor pain-related factors were associated with the assessments. Variance in back muscle strength (R-2 = 0.44, F = p < 0.01), abdominal muscle strength (R-2 = 0.68, F = p < 0.01), and aerobic capacity (R-2 = 0.76, F = p < 0.01) could only be explained through the included demographics covariates (age, gender, weight). Conclusion: This study highlighted the lack of biopsychosocial factors in explaining variance in outcomes of abdominal and back strength, and aerobic capacity in persons with CNSLBP with characteristics as depicted in the current sample. This information supports the valid interpretation of the outcomes of these assessments. (C) 2020 Published by Elsevier Ltd.		[Verbrugghe, Jonas; Agten, Anouk; Stevens, Sjoerd; Eijnde, Bert O.; Vandenabeele, Frank; De Baets, Liesbet; Timmermans, Annick] Hasselt Univ, Fac Rehabil Sci, REVAL Rehabil Res Ctr, Hasselt, Belgium; [Roussel, Nathalie] Univ Antwerp, Fac Med & Hlth Sci, Dept Rehabil Sci & Physiotherapy, Antwerp, Belgium; [Verbrugghe, Jonas] Hasselt Univ, Fac Rehabil Sci, REVAL, Gebouw A,Agoralaan 5, Diepenbeek 3590, Belgium								16							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000531082200011	47	Article; Article		
J	Maria Martinez-Jimenez, Eva; Becerro-de-Bengoa-Vallejo, Ricardo; Elena Losa-Iglesias, Marta; Rodriguez-Sanz, David; Ignacio Diaz-Velazquez, Jose; Casado-Hernandez, Israel; Mazoteras-Pardo, Victoria; Lopez-Lopez, Daniel								Acute effects of myofascial induction technique in plantar fascia complex in patients with myofascial pain syndrome on postural sway and plantar pressures: A quasi-experimental study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				43				70	76		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.02.008			MAY 2020	2020	Objectives: The prevalence of myofascial pain syndrome varies from 21% 93%. Several studies have shown that myofascial induction is effective in treating myofascial pain syndrome. Although these techniques have shown some effectiveness in clinical practice, there have been little study into their effects, and have deep effects. The purpose of this study was to investigate if the application of a single myofascial induction technique for each foot, targeted to the plantar fascia resulted in changes in balance and footprint variables. Design: A quasi-experimental study. Setting: An outpatient clinic. Subjects: 20 healthy participants (12 females and 8 males) were evaluated pre and post Myofascial induction technique for each foot in plantar fascia during 5 min. Methods: We measured static footprint and stabilometry variables in asymptomatic subjects. The footprint surface area was divided: bilateral rear foot, bilateral midfoot, bilateral fore foot. Results: We found differences in the footprint variables: maximun pressure in forefoot (p = 0.025), surface in forefoot (p = 0.03). The myofascial induction has no effects on stabilometry variables. Conclusions: The immediate effects of the longitudinal technique of myofascial induction of the plantar fascia are the increase of surface and maximum pressure in fore foot. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Maria Martinez-Jimenez, Eva] Univ Castilla La Mancha, Fac Fisioterapia & Enfermeria, Dept Enfermeria, Toledo, Spain; [Becerro-de-Bengoa-Vallejo, Ricardo; Rodriguez-Sanz, David; Casado-Hernandez, Israel; Mazoteras-Pardo, Victoria] Univ Complutense Madrid, Fac Enfermeria Fisioterapia & Podol, Ave Complutense S-N, Madrid 28040, Spain; [Elena Losa-Iglesias, Marta] Univ Rey Juan Carlos, Fac Hlth Sci, Madrid, Spain; [Ignacio Diaz-Velazquez, Jose] Premium Madrid, Madrid, Spain; [Lopez-Lopez, Daniel] Univ A Coruna, Fac Nursing & Podiatry, Dept Hlth Sci, Res Hlth & Podiatry Grp, Ferrol, Spain; [Rodriguez-Sanz, David] Univ Complutense Madrid, Fac Enfermeria Fisioterapia & Podol, Ave Complutense S-N, Madrid 28040, Spain								13							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000531082200010	36	Article; Article		
J	Yabe, Yutaka; Hagiwara, Yoshihiro; Sekiguchi, Takuya; Momma, Haruki; Tsuchiya, Masahiro; Kanazawa, Kenji; Itaya, Nobuyuki; Yoshida, Shinichirou; Sogi, Yasuhito; Yano, Toshihisa; Onoki, Takahiro; Itoi, Eiji; Nagatomi, Ryoichi								Association between lower back pain and lower extremity pain among young volleyball players: A cross-sectional study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				43				65	69		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.02.005			MAY 2020	2020	Background: Lower back pain (LBP), as well as lower extremity injuries, are major problems among young volleyball players. Nevertheless, only few studies have focused on the relationship between lower extremity injuries and LBP. Objective: This study investigated the association between LBP and lower extremity pain, including knee and ankle pain, among young volleyball players. Design: Cross-sectional study. Setting: Amateur sports association. Participants: Elementary and middle school-aged athletes (6-15 years of age). Main outcome measures: LBP and lower extremity pain. Results: A total of 566 young volleyball players participated in this study. The point prevalence of LBP among young volleyball players was 9.5%. Using absence of lower extremity pain as a reference, the adjusted odds ratio (95% confidence interval) for LBP was 11.07 (5.64-21.71) in the presence of lower extremity pain. Conclusions: LBP is associated with Lower extremity pain among young volleyball players. Careful attention should be paid to lower extremity complaints to prevent and treat LBP among young volleyball players. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Yabe, Yutaka; Hagiwara, Yoshihiro; Sekiguchi, Takuya; Kanazawa, Kenji; Itaya, Nobuyuki; Yoshida, Shinichirou; Sogi, Yasuhito; Yano, Toshihisa; Onoki, Takahiro; Itoi, Eiji] Tohoku Univ, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Sch Med, Aoba Ku, 1-1 Seiryo Machi, Sendai, Miyagi 9808574, Japan; [Hagiwara, Yoshihiro; Momma, Haruki; Nagatomi, Ryoichi] Tohoku Univ, Dept Med & Sci Sports & Exercise, Sch Med, Aoba Ku, 2-1 Seiryo Machi, Sendai, Miyagi 9808575, Japan; [Tsuchiya, Masahiro] Tohoku Fukushi Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Nursing, Aoba Ku, 1-8-1 Kunimi, Sendai, Miyagi 9818522, Japan; [Nagatomi, Ryoichi] Tohoku Univ, Div Biomed Engn Hlth & Welf, Grad Sch Biomed Engn, Aoba Ku, 2-1 Seiryo Machi, Sendai, Miyagi 9808575, Japan; [Hagiwara, Yoshihiro] Tohoku Univ, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Sch Med, Aoba Ku, 1-1 Seiryo Machi, Sendai, Miyagi 9808574, Japan								9							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000531082200009	29	Article; Article		
J	Werin, Maria; Maenhout, Annelies; Smet, Stephanie; Van Holder, Laura; Cools, Ann								Muscle recruitment during plyometric exercises in overhead athletes with and without shoulder pain								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				43				19	26		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.01.015			MAY 2020	2020	Objectives: To investigate if there is a difference in muscle activity patterns during high load plyometric shoulder exercises between overhead athletes with and without shoulder pain. Design: Controlled laboratory EMG study. Setting: University EMG Laboratory. Participants: Sixty overhead athletes, 30 with shoulder pain and 30 healthy controls were included. Main outcome measures: The EMG activity of Upper Trapezius (UT), Middle Trapezius (MT), Lower Trapezius (LT), Serratus Anterior (SA), Latissimus Dorsi (LD) and Pectoralis Major (PM) on the tested side and bilateral on Abdominal Obliques Externus (OE) muscles was registered with wireless surface EMG during 3 rotational plyometric shoulder exercises in 3 positions, prone, sidelying and standing. Results: A significant higher muscle activity was found in the shoulder pain group for MT together with an overall significant higher activity in the thoraco-humeral and abdominal muscles compared to healthy controls. Conclusions: When rehabilitating the overhead athlete with shoulder pain, shoulder muscles together with both thoraco-humeral and abdominal muscles need to be engaged. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Werin, Maria; Maenhout, Annelies; Smet, Stephanie; Van Holder, Laura; Cools, Ann] Univ Ghent, Fac Med & Hlth Sci, Dept Rehabil Sci & Physiotherapy, De Pintelaan 185, Ghent 9000, Belgium; [Werin, Maria] Capio Artro Clin, Box 5605, S-11486 Stockholm, Sweden								11							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000531082200003	58	Article; Article		
J	Leahy, Roisin; Farrington, Shane; Whyte, Enda; O'Connor, Siobhan								Concussion reporting, knowledge and attitudes in Irish amateur gaelic games athletes								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				43				236	243		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.06.004			MAY 2020	2020	Objectives: To examine self-reported concussion history, knowledge and attitudes towards concussion reporting and education in Irish adult Gaelic games players. Design: Cross-sectional survey. Setting: Data were collected using an online survey instrument. Participants: Two hundred and sixteen adult Gaelic games athletes (106 male, 110 female). Main outcome measures: Self-reported concussion history for the previous season, reporting history for participants' most recent concussion, concussion knowledge, willingness to report future concussions in a variety of situations and desire for further concussion education. Results: Seventy-three percent of participants suspected they had sustained a concussion in the past. Most (72.2%) informed someone of their most recent concussion, although two-thirds continued to play during their most recent concussion. Participants had a good overall understanding of concussion, although concussion knowledge score was not associated with safer behaviour following participants' most recent concussion. While most agreed that concussion is a serious injury (95.8%), 46.8% would not report a concussion during important games. Conclusions: The high proportion of participants playing following concussion and their reluctance to report concussions during important games is concerning. Interventions aimed at improving attitudes towards concussion reporting among athletes and other stakeholders are required to improve concussion management in amateur Gaelic games athletes. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Leahy, Roisin; Farrington, Shane; Whyte, Enda; O'Connor, Siobhan] Dublin City Univ, Sch Hlth & Human Performance, XB30, Dublin 9, Ireland; [Leahy, Roisin] Dublin City Univ, Sch Hlth & Human Performance, XB30, Dublin 9, Ireland								18							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000531082200032	39	Article; Article		
J	Jukic, Ivan; Tufano, James J.								Acute effects of shorter but more frequent rest periods on mechanical and perceptual fatigue during a weightlifting derivative at different loads in strength-trained men								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				21	9			1122	1135		10.1080/14763141.2020.1747530			OCT 21 2022	2022	Traditional sets can be fatiguing, but redistributing rest periods to be shorter and more frequent may help maintain peak vertical barbell displacement (DISP) and reduce concentric repetition duration (CRDI), peak velocity decline (PVD) and perceptual exertion (RPE) across multiple repetitions, sets and loads during clean pulls. Fifteen strength-trained men performed: 3 traditional sets of 6 clean pulls using 80% (TS80), 100% (TS100) and 120% (TS120) of power clean 1RM with 180 seconds of inter-set rest; and 3 'rest redistribution' protocols of 9 sets of 2 clean pulls using 80% (RR80), 100% (RR100) and 120% (RR120) of power clean 1RM with 45 seconds of inter-set rest. DISP was greater during RR100 (g = 0.39) and RR120 (g = 0.56) compared to TS100 and TS120, respectively. In addition, PVD was less during RR120 than TS120 (g = 1.18), while CRDI was greater during TS100 (g = 0.98) and TS120 (g = 0.89) compared to RR100 and RR120, respectively. Also, RR protocols resulted in lower RPE across the sets at all loads (g = 1.11-1.24). Therefore, RR generally resulted in lower perceptual and mechanical fatigue, evidenced by lower RPE, PVD, CRDI and greater DISP than TS, and these differences became even more exaggerated as the barbell load and the number of sets performed increased.		[Jukic, Ivan] Auckland Univ Technol, Sport Performance Res Inst New Zealand SPRINZ, Auckland, New Zealand; [Jukic, Ivan; Tufano, James J.] Charles Univ Prague, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Prague, Czech Republic; [Jukic, Ivan] Auckland Univ Technol, Sport Performance Res Inst New Zealand SPRINZ, Auckland, New Zealand; [Jukic, Ivan] Charles Univ Prague, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Prague, Czech Republic								9							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000531976900001	32	Article; Article		
J	Rodiles-Guerrero, Luis; Pareja-Blanco, Fernando; Leon-Prados, Juan Antonio								Comparison of load-velocity relationships in two bench press variations: weight stack machine vs Smith machine								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				21	10			1147	1159		10.1080/14763141.2020.1735499			NOV 26 2022	2022	Performing the bench-press (BP) exercise in a weight stack machine (WSM) is a common practice. However, no previous studies have analysed the load-velocity relationship in this BP variant. The purpose of this study was 1) to investigate the load-velocity relationship during BP exercise using a WSM; and 2) to compare the load-velocity relationship in this exercise in two conditions: WSM vs. Smith machine (SM). Twenty-six young men performed a BP progressive loading test to determine their one-repetition maximum and load-velocity relationship using a WSM. Additionally, 19 participants performed two progressive loading tests (WSM and SM). A high relationship was found between the relative load (%1RM) and mean propulsive velocity (MPV) (R2 = 0.97; SEE = 0.07 m/s) in the WSM. Moreover, significant differences were observed (p <.05) in the MPV values attained in every %1RM in WSM and SM from 30 to 75% 1RM. The close relationship between the MPV values and the %1RM in BP exercise using a WSM enables coaches to use the MPV to accurately monitor their athletes on a daily basis. The differences observed between WSM and SM in the %1RM and their respective MPVs indicate that different equations must be used for each exercise mode.		[Rodiles-Guerrero, Luis; Pareja-Blanco, Fernando; Leon-Prados, Juan Antonio] Univ Pablo de Olavide, Phys Performance & Sports Res Ctr, Seville, Spain; [Pareja-Blanco, Fernando; Leon-Prados, Juan Antonio] Univ Pablo de Olavide, Dept Sports & Comp Sci, Fac Sport Sci, Seville, Spain; [Rodiles-Guerrero, Luis] Univ Pablo de Olavide, Phys Performance & Sports Res Ctr, Seville, Spain								7							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000531976300001	30	Article; Article		
J	Hurst, Oliver; Kilduff, Liam P.; Johnston, Michael; Cronin, John B.; Bezodis, Neil E.								Acute effects of wearable thigh and shank loading on spatiotemporal and kinematic variables during maximum velocity sprinting								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				21	10			1234	1248		10.1080/14763141.2020.1748099			NOV 26 2022	2022	Light wearable resistance is used in sprint training but the scientific evidence to guide its implementation is limited. This study investigated thigh and shank loading protocols which were matched based on the average increase in moment of inertia about the hip over a stride cycle. Seven university-level sprinters completed three counterbalanced conditions (unloaded, shank-loaded, thigh-loaded), and kinematic variables were measured between 30 and 40 m. Both thigh and shank loading led to small reductions in step velocity (mean change = -1.4% and -1.2%, respectively). This was due to small reductions in step frequency (-1.8%; -1.7%) because of small increases in contact time (+2.7%; +1.5%) in both conditions and a small increase in flight time (+2.0%) in the shank-loaded condition. Both conditions led to moderate increases in hip extension at toe-off (+2.7 degrees; +1.4 degrees), whilst thigh loading led to a small reduction in peak hip flexion angle during swing (-2.5 degrees) and shank loading led to a small increase in peak biceps femoris muscle-tendon unit length (+0.4%). Thigh and shank loading can both be used to provide small reductions in sprint velocity, and each has specific overload effects which must be considered in the rationale for their implementation.		[Hurst, Oliver; Kilduff, Liam P.; Johnston, Michael; Bezodis, Neil E.] Swansea Univ, Appl Sports Technol Exercise & Med ASTEM Res Ctr, Swansea, W Glam, Wales; [Johnston, Michael] British Athlet Natl Performance Inst, Loughborough, Leics, England; [Cronin, John B.] Auckland Univ Technol, Sport Performance Res Inst New Zealand SPRINZ AUT, Auckland, New Zealand; [Bezodis, Neil E.] Swansea Univ, Appl Sports Technol Exercise & Med ASTEM Res Ctr, Swansea, W Glam, Wales								9							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000531939400001	33	Article; Article		
J	Sasaki, Shogo; Nagano, Yasuharu; Ichikawa, Hiroshi								Differences in high trunk acceleration during single-leg landing after an overhead stroke between junior and adolescent badminton athletes								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				21	10			1160	1175		10.1080/14763141.2020.1740310			NOV 26 2022	2022	The magnitude of trunk acceleration reflects the ground reaction force. This study compared the frequency of high trunk accelerations during single-leg landing after an overhead stroke between junior and adolescent badminton players, and examined the difference in each directive magnitude according to age and landing leg. Thirty-eight female badminton players (17 junior and 21 adolescent athletes) played two singles games while wearing a tri-axial accelerometer on their upper back. The frequency and 95% confidence interval (CI) of single-leg landings that generated >4-G resultant acceleration, and each directive magnitude were calculated. A two-factorial analysis of variance (factor 1: group, factor 2: landing leg) was performed to determine the effects of age and different landing patterns. Frequency of single-leg landings following an overhead stroke in the adolescent athletes (mean, 1.71 cases/min; 95% CI, 1.59-1.83 cases/min) was higher than that in the junior athletes (mean, 1.13 cases/min; 95% CI, 1.01-1.25 cases/min). The adolescent athletes exhibited greater mediolateral acceleration in the movement towards racket-hand leg and anteroposterior acceleration in the movement towards the opposite leg than the junior athletes. This cross-sectional study suggests that the frequency and movement pattern associated with high-load landing in badminton games differ between junior and adolescent athletes.		[Sasaki, Shogo] Tokyo Ariake Univ Med & Hlth Sci, Fac Hlth Sci, Tokyo, Japan; [Nagano, Yasuharu] Japan Womens Coll Phys Educ, Dept Sports Wellness Sci, Tokyo, Japan; [Ichikawa, Hiroshi] Niigata Univ Hlth & Welf, Dept Hlth & Sports, Niigata, Japan; [Sasaki, Shogo] Tokyo Ariake Univ Med & Hlth Sci, Fac Hlth Sci, Tokyo, Japan								8							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000531933500001	50	Article; Article		
J	Bercovitz, Tomer; Herman, Amir; Solomonow-Avnon, Deborah; Wolf, Alon; Kodesh, Einat								Plantar pressure modifications in experienced runners following an exhaustive run								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				21	10			1189	1199		10.1080/14763141.2020.1743744			NOV 26 2022	2022	Running-induced fatigue alters foot strike pattern. The purpose of this study was to assess plantar pressure and centre of pressure (CoP) trajectory alterations after a 30-minute run at sub-maximal speed in experienced long-distance runners. Plantar pressure data from 9 experienced heel-to-toe male runners was collected before and after a 30-minute run on a treadmill at a speed 5% above the respiratory compensation point (RCP) of each participant. Significant changes in the plantar-pressure map were found post-run, including increased impulses in the first metatarsal head (9.92%, p < 0.001) and hallux areas (16.19%, p < 0.001), and decreased impulses in the fourth and fifth metatarsal heads (4.95%, p < 0.05). The CoP curve showed a medial shift (p < 0.01). The plantar-pressure map and CoP trajectory were altered following a 30-minute exhausting run. These changes may indicate an increase in stress on joints and tissues when individuals are fatigued and may promote overload injuries.		[Bercovitz, Tomer; Solomonow-Avnon, Deborah; Wolf, Alon] Technion Israel Inst Technol, Fac Mech Engn, Biorobot & Biomech Lab BRML, Haifa, Israel; [Herman, Amir] Assuta Ashdod Med Ctr, Ashdod, Israel; [Kodesh, Einat] Univ Haifa, Fac Social Welf & Hlth Sci, Dept Phys Therapy, Haifa, Israel; [Kodesh, Einat] Univ Haifa, Fac Social Welf & Hlth Sci, Dept Phys Therapy, Haifa, Israel								12							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000528375700001	29	Article; Article		
J	Csato, Laszlo								When neither team wants to win: A flaw of recent UEFA qualification rules								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				15	4			526	532	1747954120921001	10.1177/1747954120921001			AUG 2020	2020	Tanking, the act of deliberately dropping points or losing a game in order to gain some other advantage, is usually seen as being against the spirit of sports. It can be even more serious if playing a draw is a (weakly) dominant strategy for both teams in a match, since this may lead to collusion. We show that such a situation occurred in a particular football match. As our generalisation reveals, the root of the problem resides in the incentive incompatibility of certain UEFA qualification rules. The governing bodies of major sports should choose strategy-proof tournament designs because of several reasons. First, they may lead to the elimination of a third, innocent team. Second, incentive incompatible rules may discourage both teams from scoring goals, and the players could be interested in improving other match statistics than the number of goals.		[Csato, Laszlo] Inst Comp Sci & Control SZTAKI, Res Grp Operat Res & Decis Syst, Lab Engn & Management Intelligence, Budapest, Hungary; [Csato, Laszlo] Corvinus Univ Budapest BCE, Dept Operat Res & Actuarial Sci, Budapest, Hungary; [Csato, Laszlo] Inst Comp Sci & Control SZTAKI, Kende St 13-17, Budapest, Hungary								21							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000534330000001	18	Article; Article		
J	Bradshaw, Elizabeth J.; Grech, Karen; Joseph, Corey W. J.; Calton, Mark; Hume, Patria A.								Agreement between force and deceleration measures during backward somersault landings								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				22	2			195	203		10.1080/14763141.2020.1743348			FEB 1 2023	2023	This study examined the agreement between force platform and inertial measurement unit (IMU) measures of backward somersault landings. Seven female gymnasts performed three trials, taking off from a 90 cm vaulting box and using competition landing technique. Two force platforms (1000 Hz) covered with a 6.4 cm thick carpeted landing surface measured the ground reaction forces. One inertial measurement unit (500 Hz) fixed on the second thoracic vertebra measured peak resultant deceleration of the gymnast. Measurement agreement between vertical and resultant peak force measures, and resultant peak force and peak deceleration was assessed using mean differences, Pearson's correlation, and Cohen's effect size (ES) statistics. There was perfect measurement agreement between vertical and resultant peak forces (R = 1.0, p < 0.001; ES = 0.005), but only moderate measurement agreement between resultant peak force and peak resultant deceleration (Mean Difference = -2.16%, R = 0.4, p = ns; ES = 0.121). Backward somersault landings can be assessed using either uni-axial or tri-axial force platforms to measure ground impact load/force, as the landing movements are almost purely vertical. However, force measures are not the same as peak resultant decelerations from IMUs which give an indication of impact shock. Landing load/shock measures are potentially important for injury prevention.		[Bradshaw, Elizabeth J.] Deakin Univ, Sch Exercise & Nutr Sci, Ctr Sport Res, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Bradshaw, Elizabeth J.; Hume, Patria A.] Auckland Univ Technol, Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand, Auckland, New Zealand; [Grech, Karen] Australian Catholic Univ, Sch Behav & Hlth Sci, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Joseph, Corey W. J.] Monash Hlth, Ctr Movement Disorders & Gait, Cheltenham, Australia; [Calton, Mark] Gymnast Victoria, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Bradshaw, Elizabeth J.] Deakin Univ, Sch Exercise & Nutr Sci, Ctr Sport Res, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Bradshaw, Elizabeth J.] Auckland Univ Technol, Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand, Auckland, New Zealand								4							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000527588500001	28	Article; Article		
J	Naess, Hans Erik								Corporate greenfluencing: a case study of sponsorship activation in Formula E motorsports								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				21	4			617	631		10.1108/IJSMS-09-2019-0106			NOV 2 2020	2020	Purpose The purpose of this paper is to demonstrate how companies activate their sponsorship of Formula E (for Electric) championship races to influence consumers' opinion of them as sustainable businesses. Design/methodology/approach Drawing on an original combination of promotional outputs (YouTube spots, social media releases and sustainability reports) from Formula E race title sponsors in the 2017-2019 seasons, the paper is a qualitative analysis of how these sponsors solve the value clash between traditional motorsport imagery and environmentalism to achieve "narrative authenticity". Findings Findings show that sponsors do not address this clash directly. Instead, the conflict itself is reframed as a question of what sponsors do to improve the environment, not what they ndo not do. Second, the timeframe for action is redefined, which means that the future is what counts, not the situation today or given aims like the UN 2030 Sustainable Development Goals. Originality/value Sponsorship activation through Formula E as way of generating green brand equity would come across as more credible if companies improved the use of cross-platform synergies to convey narrative authenticity. To qualitative researchers on sport sponsorship, the findings strengthen the understanding of brands as "cultural narrators".		[Naess, Hans Erik] Kristiania Univ Coll, Dept Leadership & Org, Oslo, Norway; [Naess, Hans Erik] Kristiania Univ Coll, Dept Leadership & Org, Oslo, Norway								27							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000529157500001	78	Article; Article		
J	Brocken, J. E. A.; van der Kamp, J.; Lenoir, M.; Savelsbergh, G. J. P.								Equipment modification can enhance skill learning in young field hockey players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				15	3			382	389	1747954120918964	10.1177/1747954120918964			JUN 2020	2020	The aim of the study was to investigate whether performance of children can be improved by training with modified equipment that challenges movement execution. For that purpose, young field hockey players practiced with a modified and a regular hockey ball. The modified hockey ball enforces more variable movement execution during practice by rolling less predictably than a regular hockey ball and, thus, challenges the players' stick-ball control. Two groups of 7- to 9-year old children, with 0 to 4 years of experience, participated in a crossover-design, in which they either received four training sessions with the modified ball followed by four training sessions with the regular ball or vice versa. In a pretest, intermediate test (i.e. following the first four training sessions) and a posttest, the participants dribbled an obstacle parcours with a regular ball. Results show that practice with the modified ball led to greater performance improvement than the intervention with the regular hockey ball. This performance improvement, however, was not predicted by experience and/or initial skill (i.e. pretest score). The findings indicate that by using modified equipment, sport trainers and physical education teachers can, presumably through enhancement of movement variability during practice, stimulate skill acquisition in young children.		[Brocken, J. E. A.; van der Kamp, J.; Savelsbergh, G. J. P.] Vrije Univ Amsterdam, Van der Boechorststr 7, NL-1081 HV Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Lenoir, M.] Univ Ghent, Vakgrp Bewegings Sportwetenschappen, Ghent, Belgium; [Brocken, J. E. A.] Vrije Univ Amsterdam, Van der Boechorststr 7, NL-1081 HV Amsterdam, Netherlands								18							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000527971600001	27	Article; Article		
J	Silva, Alfredo; Verissimo, Jose Manuel Cristovao								From fans to buyers: antecedents of sponsor's products purchase intention								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				21	3			449	466		10.1108/IJSMS-03-2019-0028			AUG 3 2020	2020	Purpose This study aims to explore the indirect and direct effect of perceived congruence between fans' identification with a team and the intention to buy sponsor's products. The level of perceived congruence between the sponsor and the sports team, as well as fans' attitude toward the sponsor and their purchase intention toward products from the sponsoring company are analyzed. Design/methodology/approach A sample of 2,647 football fans who support two well-known Portuguese professional football teams completed a questionnaire. Structural equation modeling with multigroup analysis was carried out to test the model and the hypotheses. Findings Team identification has an effect on perceived congruence, on attitude toward sponsors and on intention to buy. The results also show the positive direct and indirect effects of both perceived congruence on attitude toward the sponsoring company and on purchase intention of sponsors' products. However, neither congruence nor attitude show significant results on purchase intention. Originality/value This study departs from previous studies, in that it investigates the direct and indirect (i.e. mediated) effects of perceived congruence. Firstly, it analyzes the mediating effect of perceived congruence between team identification and purchase intentions. Secondly, it explores the mediating effect of perceived congruence between team identification and attitude toward the sponsor.		[Silva, Alfredo] Polytech Inst Santarem, Sport Sci Sch Rio Maior, Santarem, Portugal; [Silva, Alfredo] Life Qual Res Ctr CIEQV, Dept Sport Management, Santarem, Portugal; [Verissimo, Jose Manuel Cristovao] Univ Lisbon, ISEG Lisbon Sch Econ & Management, Lisbon, Portugal; [Silva, Alfredo] Polytech Inst Santarem, Sport Sci Sch Rio Maior, Santarem, Portugal; [Silva, Alfredo] Life Qual Res Ctr CIEQV, Dept Sport Management, Santarem, Portugal								13							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000526903600001	75	Article; Article		
J	Simperingham, Kim David; Cronin, John B.; Ross, Angus; Brown, Scott R.; Macadam, Paul; Pearson, Simon								Acute changes in acceleration phase sprint biomechanics with lower body wearable resistance								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				21	10			1176	1188		10.1080/14763141.2020.1743349			NOV 26 2022	2022	The aim of this acute cross-sectional study was to quantify the kinematic and kinetic changes that occur during sprint acceleration when lower body WR is worn. Fifteen male rugby athletes (19 years; 181 cm; 91 kg) were assessed during maximal effort over-ground and treadmill sprinting over 20 m under three different loading conditions: 0%, 3% and 5% body mass (BM) added weight attached to the lower body. Treadmill data provided a convenient estimate of kinetic changes in the absence of in-ground force plates. The loaded conditions resulted in significantly increased ground contact time (5 to 6%) and decreased step frequency (-2 to -3%) during sprint accelerations (effect size = 0.32-0.72). Moderate WR loading (3% BM) resulted in increased (9%; effect size = 0.66) theoretical maximum horizontal force (relative to BM) and unchanged 20 m sprint times (p > 0.05). Heavier WR loading (5% BM) resulted in a significant decrease (-4%) in vertical ground reaction forces (relative to total system mass) and slower (1 to 2%) 20 m sprint times (effect size = 0.38-0.70). Lower body WR loading up to 5% BM can provide specific sprint training overload, while affecting sprint acceleration biomechanics by <= 6%.		[Simperingham, Kim David; Cronin, John B.; Ross, Angus; Brown, Scott R.; Macadam, Paul] Auckland Univ Technol, SPRINZ, Auckland, New Zealand; [Simperingham, Kim David; Ross, Angus] High Performance Sport New Zealand, Auckland, New Zealand; [Brown, Scott R.] Univ Michigan, Dept Phys Med & Rehabil, Michigan Med, Neuromuscular & Rehabil Robot Lab,Neurro Lab, Ann Arbor, MI 48109 USA; [Pearson, Simon] Queensland Acad Sport, Nathan, Qld, Australia; [Macadam, Paul] Auckland Univ Technol, SPRINZ, Auckland, New Zealand								9							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000527625000001	32	Article; Article		
J	Valldecabres, Raul; Richards, Jim; De Benito, Ana-Maria								The effect of match fatigue in elite badminton players using plantar pressure measurements and the implications to injury mechanisms								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				21	8			940	957		10.1080/14763141.2020.1712469			SEP 14 2022	2022	The purpose of this study was to investigate the differences in plantar pressure under the lead and trail foot between two lunge tasks to the net in the dominant (LD) and non-dominant (LND) directions, and to explore how fatigue affects the plantar pressure patterns whilst performing movements before and after a competitive match. Peak and mean pressure were measured with the Biofoot-IBV in-shoe system from five repetitions of each task, with sensors positioned under the calcaneus, midfoot and phalanges on the lead and trail foot. Data were collected pre and immediately post-playing an official first national league competition match. The study was conducted with a sample of thirteen first league badminton players. A 2 x 2 repeated ANOVA found significant differences between the two tasks and between pre- and post-match (fatigued state). Players also had different foot pressure distributions for the LD and LND tasks, which indicated a difference in loading strategy. In a fatigued state, the plantar pressure shifted to the medial aspect of the midfoot in the trail limb, indicating a reduction in control and a higher injury risk during non-dominant lunge tasks.		[Valldecabres, Raul] Valencia Catholic Univ San Vicente Martir, Doctorate Sch, Valencia, Spain; [Valldecabres, Raul; De Benito, Ana-Maria] Valencia Catholic Univ San Vicente Martir, Phys Act & Sports Sci Fac, Valencia, Spain; [Richards, Jim] Univ Cent Lancashire, Allied Hlth Res Unit, Preston, Lancs, England; [Valldecabres, Raul] Valencia Catholic Univ San Vicente Martir, Doctorate Sch, Valencia, Spain; [Valldecabres, Raul] Valencia Catholic Univ San Vicente Martir, Phys Act & Sports Sci Fac, Valencia, Spain								21							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000527211500001	77	Article; Article		
J	Stellpflug, Samuel J.; Schindler, Broc R.; Corry, Jesse J.; Menton, Thomas R.; LeFevere, Robert C.								The safety of sportive chokes: a cross-sectional survey-based study								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				48	4			473	479		10.1080/00913847.2020.1754734			OCT 1 2020	2020	Objectives: Sportive choking or strangling, known as a 'choke' in the combat sports community, is the practice of compressing the jugular veins and carotid arteries to threaten unconsciousness by lowering cerebral perfusion pressure. This is commonly practiced within combat sports and police/military combatives. The safety profile of sportive choking is underrepresented in the literature. The authors sought to explore the safety of sportive chokes. Methods: A convenience sample of visitors to two combat sports internet forums completed an anonymous web-based survey on choking experience and related symptoms. Descriptive statistics were used to describe the obtained data. Bivariate analysis was performed to elaborate on relationships between grappling experience and the number of times choked, between the number of times choked with pre-syncope/syncope, and between the duration of symptoms and the number of times choked with pre-syncope/syncope. Results: Overall, 4421 individuals completed the survey. One hundred and fourteen were excluded, leaving 4307 analyzed respondents. Ninety-four percent were male, 89.2% were ages 18-44 years. Seventy-nine percent had >1 year of grappling experience and 30% had >5 years. Of the 4307, 1443 (33.5%) reported being choked >500 times, 3257 (75.7%) have been choked to near-syncope, and 1198 (27.8%) have been choked unconscious. Two of the 4307 (0.05%) reported ongoing symptoms from chokes. Of the respondents, 94.3% felt applying a choke would be a safe and effective way to control a street fight; 83.6% felt that vascular neck restraint, the police combative equivalent of sportive choking, would be appropriate as an alternative escalation of force option. Conclusion: Based on a convenience sample of 4307 respondents' self-reported data, sportive choking appears to be safe. Only 0.05% experienced ongoing symptoms, which were likely not related to brain ischemia.		[Stellpflug, Samuel J.; Schindler, Broc R.; LeFevere, Robert C.] Reg Hosp, Dept Emergency Med, 640 Jackson St, St Paul, MN 55101 USA; [Corry, Jesse J.] United Hosp, Dept Neurol, St Paul, MN USA; [Menton, Thomas R.] St Paul Police Dept, Training Unit, St Paul, MN USA; [Stellpflug, Samuel J.] Reg Hosp, Dept Emergency Med, 640 Jackson St, St Paul, MN 55101 USA								19							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000527604900001	25	Article; Article		
J	Zhang, Jingxian (Cecilia); Byon, Kevin K.; Xu, Kaijuan; Huang, Haiyan								Event impacts associated with residents' satisfaction and behavioral intentions: a pre-post study of the Nanjing Youth Olympic Games								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				21	3			487	511		10.1108/IJSMS-03-2019-0027			AUG 3 2020	2020	Purpose The paper aims to (1) explore the positive and negative sociocultural, economic, and environmental impacts on satisfaction, and behavioral intentions; and (2) examine the changes in relationships among event impacts, satisfaction and behavioral intentions of host city residents before and after a major sporting event. Design/methodology/approach We used panel data to estimate how resident responses change over time. The data were collected three months before (N before = 266) and three months after (N after = 266) the Nanjing Youth Olympic Games. Data were analyzed by confirmatory factor analysis (CFA), structural equation modeling (SEM) and invariance tests. Findings A significant relationship exists between negative and positive perceived sociocultural, economic, and environmental impacts, satisfaction and behavioral intentions. In addition, findings suggest that the effect of the sociocultural impacts on satisfaction and of satisfaction on behavioral intentions strengthened after the event. The relationship between positive environmental impacts and satisfaction was reduced across the two points in time. Our results indicate that residents' assessment regarding the sporting event partially changed over the whole six-month course of the study. Originality/value This study differs from most recent research in that it examines the sociocultural, economic, and environmental event impacts in modeling residents' satisfaction and testing the influence of negative event impacts on residents' satisfaction and behavioral intentions. The current study contributes to the literature by emphasizing the changes that occur regarding the relationships among event impacts, satisfaction and behavioral intentions across the same respondents over time.		[Zhang, Jingxian (Cecilia); Byon, Kevin K.] Indiana Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Bloomington, IN 47405 USA; [Xu, Kaijuan; Huang, Haiyan] Fudan Univ, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Xu, Kaijuan; Huang, Haiyan] China Shanghai Univ Sport, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Xu, Kaijuan] Fudan Univ, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Xu, Kaijuan] China Shanghai Univ Sport, Shanghai, Peoples R China								29							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000526070700001	75	Article; Article		
J	Kim, Young Do; Magnusen, Marshall J.; Kim, Yukyoum; Kim, Minjung								Developing a sport fan equity index								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				21	2			247	266		10.1108/IJSMS-02-2019-0022			MAY 4 2020	2020	Purpose The primary purpose of this study was to generate a composite sport fan equity index (SFEI) for use in estimating the asset value of an individual fan to a sport organization. The index was developed by applying a simple additive weighting (SAW) method. Design/methodology/approach A cross-sectional survey-based research was carried out to validate key components of sport fan equity (SFE) and formulate the SFEI on the basis of the NCAA Division I collegiate sport context. These objectives were satisfied through a twofold process involving first-order confirmatory factor analysis intended to assess the validity of SFE measurement scales and SAW designed to produce the composite SFEI. Findings The developed index indicated that the average SFE of focal sport fans of Division I collegiate sport was 54.8 and that the overall SFE of such contributors ranged from 20.4 (the lowest score) to 94.6 (the highest score). The SFEI serves as a single, summary score and an essential gauge for sport marketers to use when assessing profitable fans and tracking/comparing them over time. Originality/value This research contributes to the sport marketing literature through its application of SAW in an initial effort to produce an easily understandable index that determines the asset value of sport fans and serves as an imperative criterion for overall sport team valuation from the sport consumer side. Specifically, the SFEI can function as a standard numeric measure that enables sport marketers to identify fans from whom sport organizations can generate considerable profits, segment these devotees systematically, and tailor marketing strategies to each fan base.		[Kim, Young Do] Elon Univ, Dept Sport Management, Elon, NC USA; [Magnusen, Marshall J.] Baylor Univ, Dept Educ Leadership, Waco, TX 76798 USA; [Kim, Yukyoum] Seoul Natl Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Seoul, South Korea; [Kim, Minjung] Univ Mississippi, Dept Hlth Exercise Sci & Recreat Management, University, MS 38677 USA; [Kim, Minjung] Univ Mississippi, Dept Hlth Exercise Sci & Recreat Management, University, MS 38677 USA								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000525581600001	81	Article; Article		
J	Won, June; Lee, J. Lucy								The effectiveness of multiple brand portfolios: the role of directional dominance and brand interference on brand evaluation								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				21	2			285	303		10.1108/IJSMS-09-2019-0100			MAY 4 2020	2020	Purpose The purposes of the study were (1) to examine whether directional dominance between co-existing athlete brands and sponsor brands exists; (2) to explore whether directional dominance influences consumers' memory interference; and (3) to test whether brand interference interacts with directional dominance among brands to influence consumer evaluation and behaviors under multiple endorsement and sponsorship portfolios. Design/methodology/approach The research is a 3 (directional dominance: symmetric dominance vs. asymmetric dominance with existing vs. asymmetric dominance with newly endorsed brand) x 2 (brand memory interference: interference vs. no interference) between-subjects factorial design. Findings The results indicate that (1) directional dominance influenced consumer brand interference, and directional dominance interacted with brand interference on (2) brand evaluation and (3) purchase intention in multiple brand portfolios. Originality/value Considering that conventional single-sponsor sponsorship or single-endorser endorsement portfolios are increasingly rare, research on concurrent circumstances of multiple endorsers and multiple endorsed brands in multiple brand portfolios was necessary. By expanding and reconceptualizing the context of brand networks, this study provides empirical evidence on how the dominance and directionality between endorser and (existing and newly) endorsed brands-an athlete endorser's strong pre-existing association with an existing endorsed brand in particular-influenced consumer brand interference and the brand evaluation in multiple brand portfolios.		[Won, June; Lee, J. Lucy] Bowling Green State Univ, Sch Human Movement Sport & Leisure Studies, Bowling Green, OH 43403 USA; [Lee, J. Lucy] Bowling Green State Univ, Sch Human Movement Sport & Leisure Studies, Bowling Green, OH 43403 USA								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000524865900001	89	Article; Article		
J	Aksoy, Nilsah Cavdar; Alan, Alev Kocak; Kabadayi, Ebru Turner; Aksoy, Alican								Individuals' intention to use sports wearables: the moderating role of technophobia								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				21	2			225	245		10.1108/IJSMS-08-2019-0083			MAY 4 2020	2020	Purpose This study aims to examine the wearable devices market as an essential representative of the digital age using a framework based on the Unified Theory of Acceptance and Use of Technology (UTAUT) and the context of sports wearables. Design/methodology/approach 411 people, are both users and non-users of this technology were surveyed online, and the obtained data analyzed using structural equation modeling. Findings The results support the effects of performance expectancy, effort expectancy, facilitating conditions, and social influence on attitude toward sports wearables and attitude of usage intention. Further, technophobia moderates the relationship between performance expectancy and attitude. However, a moderating effect of technophobia on the relationship between effort expectancy and attitude was not observed. Originality/value Due to innovative technologies in the digital age we live in, the devices we use in everyday life have gained intelligence. As more developments take place, and related products enter the market, understanding how people react to these products becomes an important issue. While investigating this issue in the context of sports wearables in this study, an important psychological construct, technophobia, was included in the research model in order to explore the usage intention of individuals through the effects of psychological constructs, such as paranoia, fear, anxiety, cybernetic revolt and cellphone avoidance, and the strong combination of important constructs of phobia to go against technology.		[Aksoy, Nilsah Cavdar; Alan, Alev Kocak; Kabadayi, Ebru Turner; Aksoy, Alican] Gebze Tech Univ, Kocaeli, Turkey; [Aksoy, Nilsah Cavdar] Gebze Tech Univ, Kocaeli, Turkey								45							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000524464100001	66	Article; Article		
J	Propheter, Geoffrey								Does Proximity to a New Sports Facility Affect Existing Businesses' Survival Time?								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				21	5			451	476	1527002520917197	10.1177/1527002520917197			JUN 2020	2020	Existing literature on the economic impact of sports facilities fails to consider whether new facilities positively affect existing businesses. To fill this gap, data on existing establishments in Sacramento, CA, active from 2004 through 2018 were collected. The outcome of interest is existing businesses' survival time. Using an accelerated failure time model in a difference-in-difference framework, retail establishments within a half mile of the Golden 1 Center are found to have survival times 53% shorter than otherwise similar retail establishments further away. Models also reveal existing establishments in other industries complementary to sports are not affected by the arena.		[Propheter, Geoffrey] Univ Colorado, Sch Publ Affairs, 1380 Lawrence St,Suite 500, Denver, CO 80204 USA; [Propheter, Geoffrey] Univ Colorado, Sch Publ Affairs, 1380 Lawrence St,Suite 500, Denver, CO 80204 USA								12							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000527135500001	56	Article; Article		
J	Lee, Hyun-Woo; Cho, Heetae; Lasko, Emily; Kim, Jun Woo; Kwon, Woong								From knowing the game to enjoying the game: EEG/ERP assessment of emotional processing								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				21	2			305	323		10.1108/IJSMS-11-2018-0119			MAY 4 2020	2020	Purpose In highlighting brain wave responses of emotional processing, the purpose of this study is to investigate (1) the effect of sport participation involvement on affective reaction in viewing photos; and (2) the association between affective reaction and behavioral intentions. Design/methodology/approach Using lateralized event-related potentials, the authors examined how brain wave reactions are different based on different sport involvement between two groups where one group had varsity sport experience while the other expressed that they were not fans of the sport. Findings Results indicated a significant difference in lateralization between groups. Brain responses were greater in the high involvement group and positively correlated with the intention to attend future games. Originality/value The findings in this study elucidate the linkage between one's history of sport involvement and affective brain wave responses. Implications from neurophysiological evidence provide means to further dissect the multifaceted construct of involvement in the field of sport marketing.		[Lee, Hyun-Woo] Texas A&M Univ, Dept Hlth & Kinesiol, College Stn, TX USA; [Cho, Heetae] Nanyang Technol Univ, Dept Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Singapore, Singapore; [Lasko, Emily] Virginia Commonwealth Univ, Coll Humanities & Sci, Richmond, VA USA; [Kim, Jun Woo] Arcadia Univ, Sch Global Business, Glenside, PA USA; [Kwon, Woong] Hanyang Univ, Coll Sports & Art, Seoul, South Korea; [Cho, Heetae] Nanyang Technol Univ, Dept Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Singapore, Singapore								11							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000522866200001	57	Article; Article		
J	Weinberg, Maxwell; Mollon, Brent; Kaplan, Daniel; Zuckerman, Joseph; Strauss, Eric								Improvement in sleep quality after total shoulder arthroplasty								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				48	2			194	198		10.1080/00913847.2019.1671142			APR 2 2020	2020	Objective: Poor sleep quality due to nocturnal pain is increasingly reported as a major symptom in advanced glenohumeral arthritis. The current study aimed to evaluate preoperative and postoperative sleep quality, shoulder pain, and function in patients who underwent total shoulder arthroplasty (TSA). Preoperative factors contributing to delayed improvements in sleep quality were examined.Methods: Patients scheduled for anatomic or reverse TSA due to glenohumeral arthritis were included. Patients completed the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI) and American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons (ASES) survey preoperatively, and at 6 weeks, 3 months, 6 months, and 1 year following surgery. A higher PSQI score (maximum 21) indicated greater sleep disturbance.Results: Seventy-four patients (34 males, 40 females), with a mean age of 65.8 years were prospectively enrolled. Eighty-four percent of patients reported preoperative PSQI scores indicative of sleep disturbance (6 or greater), with a mean of 10.1 4.3. The PSQI score significantly improved to 7.7 at 6 weeks (P = .003), and to 6.1 at 3 months (P = .08). At 12 months, the PSQI was within normal limits (less than or equal to 5) with a mean score of 4.3. A normal PSQI score was achieved by 40.8%, at 6 weeks, 50% at 3 months, 53.7% at 6 months, and 73.9% at 1 year. The ASES score significantly improved from 32.6 +/- 17.2 at baseline to 58.4 at 6 weeks (p < .001), 76.1 at 3 months (p < .001), and 85.3 at 12 months. Linear regression demonstrated that the ASES and PSQI scores were negatively associated with each other at each time point. Body mass index and female gender were associated with a delayed return to baseline sleep quality.Conclusion: Shoulder-related sleep disturbance significantly improved at 6 weeks following TSA, and normalized for most patients by 1 year post-operatively. Enhanced sleep quality after TSA was directly related to improved functional outcomes.		[Weinberg, Maxwell] Univ Massachusetts, Mem Med Ctr, Dept Orthoped Surg, 12 Beverly Cove, Worcester, MA 01604 USA; [Mollon, Brent] Orillia Soldiers Mem Hosp, Dept Orthoped Surg, Orillia, ON, Canada; [Kaplan, Daniel; Zuckerman, Joseph; Strauss, Eric] NYU Hosp Joint Dis, Dept Orthoped Surg, New York, NY USA; [Weinberg, Maxwell] Univ Massachusetts, Mem Med Ctr, Dept Orthoped Surg, 12 Beverly Cove, Worcester, MA 01604 USA								27							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000538037100001	35	Article; Article		
J	Verhoeff, Wesley J.; Millar, Sarah K.; Oldham, Anthony R. H.; Cronin, John								Coaching the Power Clean: A Constraints-Led Approach								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				42	2			16	25		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000508			APR 2020	2020	Traditionally, strength and conditioning coaches have used explicit instructions when changing movement behavior. Recent work has questioned the efficacy of this approach. Whether explicit instruction is best for facilitating movement change is discussed along with an alternative approach. A brief review of traditional coaching methods is undertaken, highlighting differences between the traditional "coach-centered approach" and an "athlete-centered, constraints-led approach." The constraints-led approach is applied to coaching the power clean. This provides an example of how strength and conditioning practitioners may approach the coaching of movement using methods that align with contemporary coaching as well as skill acquisition theory.		[Verhoeff, Wesley J.] Unitec Inst Technol, Sch Community Studies, Auckland, New Zealand; [Millar, Sarah K.; Oldham, Anthony R. H.; Cronin, John] Auckland Univ Technol, Sch Sport & Recreat Sport Performance Res Inst SP, Auckland, New Zealand; [Verhoeff, Wesley J.] Unitec Inst Technol, Sch Community Studies, Auckland, New Zealand								10							Sport Sciences	WOS:000524986700003	47	Article; Article		
J	Ng, Choon Yeow; Chen, Siow Ee; Lum, Danny								Inducing Postactivation Potentiation With Different Modes of Exercise								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				42	2			63	81		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000522			APR 2020	2020	The use of various modes of exercise to induce postactivation potentiation (PAP) has been studied in the current literature. However, discussion on the advantages and disadvantages of these multiple modes of exercises in inducing PAP within one review study has not been conducted. A brief discussion on the available findings on the effects of different exercises in inducing PAP is presented in this review. Coaches and athletes should take the available information into consideration because the magnitude of PAP effect may vary depending on the mode of exercise performed.		[Ng, Choon Yeow; Chen, Siow Ee; Lum, Danny] Singapore Sport Inst, Sport Sci & Sport Med, Singapore, Singapore; [Lum, Danny] Nanyang Technol Univ, Natl Inst Educ, Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Singapore, Singapore; [Lum, Danny] Singapore Sport Inst, Sport Sci & Sport Med, Singapore, Singapore; [Lum, Danny] Nanyang Technol Univ, Natl Inst Educ, Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Singapore, Singapore								26							Sport Sciences	WOS:000524986700007	70	Article; Article		
J	Hicks, Dylan Shaun; Schuster, Jake George; Samozino, Pierre; Morin, Jean-Benoit								Improving Mechanical Effectiveness During Sprint Acceleration: Practical Recommendations and Guidelines								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				42	2			45	62		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000519			APR 2020	2020	Sport scientists and strength and conditioning coaches are showing growing interest in the magnitude, orientation, and application of ground reaction force during acceleration actions in sport, as it can identify the key mechanical determinants of performance. Horizontal force-velocity profiling or sprint profiling helps practitioners understand the capacity of the mechanical force production during the acceleration phase of a sprint. This review examines the methods used in the field for determining horizontal force-velocity (sprint) profiles. It also includes recommendations for practical training methods to address individual force-velocity characteristics, mechanical effectiveness, thereby optimizing acceleration performance.		[Hicks, Dylan Shaun] Flinders Univ S Australia, Exercise Sci Dept, Adelaide, SA, Australia; [Schuster, Jake George] Vald Performance, Newstead, Qld, Australia; [Schuster, Jake George] Florida State Univ, Inst Sports Sci & Sports Med, Tallahassee, FL 32306 USA; [Samozino, Pierre] Univ Savoie Mt Blanc, Lab Interuniv Biol Motricite, Chambery, France; [Morin, Jean-Benoit] Univ Cote Azur, LAMHESS, Nice, France; [Hicks, Dylan Shaun] Flinders Univ S Australia, Exercise Sci Dept, Adelaide, SA, Australia								59							Sport Sciences	WOS:000524986700006	95	Article; Article		
J	Loturco, Irineu; Bishop, Chris; Freitas, Tomas T.; Pereira, Lucas A.; Jeffreys, Ian								Vertical Force Production in Soccer: Mechanical Aspects and Applied Training Strategies								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				42	2			6	15		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000513			APR 2020	2020	Vertical force production (VFP) is widely recognized as a critical determinant of performance in a series of soccer-specific activities, such as sprinting, jumping, and changing direction. Therefore, practitioners are constantly seeking better and more effective strategies to improve VFP in professional soccer players. This article analyzes the mechanical aspects associated with the actual role played by VFP in elite soccer, and also examines and highlights the training considerations related to its appropriate and effective development during modern soccer seasons.		[Loturco, Irineu; Pereira, Lucas A.] NAR Nucleus High Performance Sport, Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil; [Loturco, Irineu; Jeffreys, Ian] Univ South Wales, Dept Sport & Exercise, Pontypridd, M Glam, Wales; [Bishop, Chris] Middlesex Univ, London Sport Inst, London, England; [Bishop, Chris] UK Strength & Conditioning Assoc, Lytham, England; [Freitas, Tomas T.] Catholic Univ Murcia, UCAM Res Ctr High Performance Sport, Murcia, Spain; [Loturco, Irineu] NAR Nucleus High Performance Sport, Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil; [Loturco, Irineu] Univ South Wales, Dept Sport & Exercise, Pontypridd, M Glam, Wales								36							Sport Sciences	WOS:000524986700002	88	Article; Article		
J	Brown, Justin R.; Macklin, Ian; Waller, Michael								Using the Nordic Hamstring Exercise to Reduce Hamstring Injuries in Gaelic Football								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				42	2			1	5		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000516			APR 2020	2020	Various modes of football, such as soccer, rugby, Gaelic football (GF), and Australian rules football (ARF), have been carefully examined regarding injuries, risk factors, and training to prevent injury. To date, few studies have examined hamstring injury (HI) in GF. Other modes of football have received a considerable amount of research. The research indicates many HIs are common during movements such as high-speed running, deceleration, and kicking. The purpose of this article is to introduce the Nordic hamstring exercise as an exercise used to increase eccentric hamstring muscle strength and reduce HI.		[Brown, Justin R.; Macklin, Ian] ParvoMedics Inc, Murray, UT 84107 USA; [Waller, Michael] Arkansas Tech Univ, Dept Hlth & Phys Educ, Russellville, AR 72801 USA; [Brown, Justin R.] ParvoMedics Inc, Murray, UT 84107 USA								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:000524986700001	39	Article; Article		
J	Wilhoite, Sydni; Williams, Shonterious; Cook, Jordan; Ryan, Greg								Rehabilitation, Guidelines, and Exercise Prescription for Lower Limb Amputees								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				42	2			95	102		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000523			APR 2020	2020	Exercise is important for optimal recovery and quality of life for lower limb amputees. General guidelines for training to improve quality of life, gait retraining, and attenuation of risk factors for lower limb amputees will be outlined. Exercise prescription outlined in this column for lower limb amputees is based on the amputee's progress and stage of rehabilitation.		[Wilhoite, Sydni; Williams, Shonterious; Cook, Jordan; Ryan, Greg] Georgia Southern Univ, Dept Hlth Sci & Kinesiol, Savannah, GA 31408 USA; [Wilhoite, Sydni] Georgia Southern Univ, Dept Hlth Sci & Kinesiol, Savannah, GA 31408 USA								7							Sport Sciences	WOS:000524986700009	36	Article; Article		
J	Guellich, Arne; Cronauer, Robin; Diehl, Johannes; Gard, Luca; Miller, Christopher								Coach-assessed skill learning progress of youth soccer players correlates with earlier childhood practice in other sports								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				15	3			285	296	1747954120912351	10.1177/1747954120912351			JUN 2020	2020	The hypothesis that sport-specific skill learning is correlated with earlier childhood multi-sport practice experiences was empirically studied among youth soccer players. Fourteen youth soccer coaches (38.1 +/- 12.0 years) evaluated 100 youth players (11.8 +/- 0.7 years) regarding their progress in soccer-specific skill learning through the course of a one-year season. The players completed a questionnaire recording their earlier and current participation in coach-led practice and youth-led play in soccer and in other sports. Reliability of the coach rating and of players' reported sport activities ranged 0.83 <= r(tt) <= 1.00. Analyses revealed that the progress of the youth players in soccer-specific skill learning was not significantly correlated with their earlier or current amounts of coach-led soccer practice (-0.07 <= r(s) <= 0.07), youth-led soccer play (0.01 <= r(s) <= 0.08), or youth-led play in other sports (0.13 <= r(s) <= 0.22). Progress in soccer-specific skill learning was significantly correlated with the accumulated years and hours of earlier (but not current) coach-led practice in other sports (0.54 <= r(s) <= 0.57). A binary logistic regression accurately classified 83% of players with better and poorer learning progress based on earlier years and hours of practice in other sports. The observations suggest that earlier practice experiences in other sports had a lagged effect in interaction with later soccer practice and facilitated skill learning in soccer-specific practice.		[Guellich, Arne; Cronauer, Robin; Diehl, Johannes; Gard, Luca; Miller, Christopher] Univ Kaiserslautern, Dept Sport Sci, Erwin Schrodinger Str 57, D-67663 Kaiserslautern, Germany; [Guellich, Arne] Univ Kaiserslautern, Dept Sport Sci, Erwin Schrodinger Str 57, D-67663 Kaiserslautern, Germany								16							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000523523100001	78	Article; Article		
J	Billeck, Jeffrey; Peeler, Jason								The influence of fatiguing exercise on Sport Concussion Assessment Tool (SCAT) scoring in a female pediatric population								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				48	4			458	462		10.1080/00913847.2020.1746979			OCT 1 2020	2020	There is currently a lack of information available about the effect that exercise fatigue may have on Child Sport Concussion Assessment Tool (SCAT) scoring in a pediatric population. Objective: The goal of this study was to examine the influence of a fatiguing bout of aerobic exercise on Child Sport Concussion Assessment Tool (SCAT) scoring in an adolescent female sporting population. Methods: A prospective, observational-based, test-retest study design was used to collect Child SCAT data from thirty healthy 9-12 year old physically active females during two testing sessions that occurred a minimum of 7 days apart. Within each testing session, each child completed a fatiguing bout of aerobic exercise, and the Child SCAT was administered: (1). Pre-exercise and (2). Post-exercise. Parametric and non-parametric testing was used to compare aerobic exercise test results and pre- vs. post-exercise Child SCAT data. Test-retest reliability was evaluated using intra-class correlation coefficient (ICC 3,1) analysis. Results: No significantly differences were noted between pre- and post-exercise Child SCAT data during either test day. ICC values suggested that a majority of the individual components of the Child SCAT demonstrated poor test-retest reliability. Conclusion: Clinicians using the Child SCAT as a sideline assessment tool during youth sport should have confidence that individual component scores are uninfluenced by aerobic exercise completed immediately prior to assessment. But, clinicians should also be cautioned against using Child SCAT data from consecutive testing days when making decisions about patient recovery and return-to-sport timelines.		[Billeck, Jeffrey] Univ Winnipeg, Fac Kinesiol & Appl Hlth, Winnipeg, MB, Canada; [Peeler, Jason] Pan Am Clin, David & Ruth Asper Res Ctr, Winnipeg, MB, Canada; [Peeler, Jason] Univ Manitoba, Coll Rehabil Sci, Winnipeg, MB, Canada; [Peeler, Jason] Univ Manitoba, Max Rady Coll Med, Winnipeg, MB, Canada; [Peeler, Jason] Univ Manitoba, Coll Med, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Human Anat & Cell Sci, 745 Bannatyne Ave, Winnipeg, MB R3E 0J9, Canada								3							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000557258500001	31	Article; Article		
J	DeAngelis, Scott; Viscusi, W. Kip								When to Walk Away and When to Risk It All								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				21	5			525	547	1527002520914699	10.1177/1527002520914699			JUN 2020	2020	While one might expect athletes to be strongly averse to extending their career too long when there is a chance of losing everything due to a concussion or a catastrophic injury, experimental subjects consistently played longer than the optimal amount for risk-neutral decisions. A commitment to the length of play in advance, as in the case of long-term contracts, led to a greater chance of staying beyond the expected payoff-maximizing point. If the decision frame is altered so that decisions are made in each period rather than through an upfront commitment, the magnitude of potential losses is more evident.		[DeAngelis, Scott] Robinson Bradshaw & Hinson PA, Charlotte, NC USA; [Viscusi, W. Kip] Vanderbilt Univ, Law Sch, 131 21st Ave South, Nashville, TN 37203 USA; [Viscusi, W. Kip] Vanderbilt Univ, Law Sch, 131 21st Ave South, Nashville, TN 37203 USA								1							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000523523300001	19	Article; Article		
J	Patel, Bhavik H.; Okoroha, Kelechi R.; Jildeh, Toufic R.; Lu, Yining; Baker, James D.; Nwachukwu, Benedict U.; Foster, Mitchell G.; Allen, Answorth A.; Forsythe, Brian								Adductor injuries in the National Basketball Association: an analysis of return to play and player performance from 2010 to 2019								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				48	4			450	457		10.1080/00913847.2020.1746978			OCT 1 2020	2020	Objectives: 1) To evaluate return to play (RTP) timing in National Basketball Association (NBA) athletes following adductor injuries, and 2) to evaluate the effect of adductor injuries on player performance, game availability, and career longevity following RTP. Methods: Adductor injuries in NBA athletes from the 2009-2010 to 2018-2019 seasons were identified utilizing publicly available records via previously validated methodology. RTP time was calculated, and player performance and game availability were compared pre- vs. post-injury. Additionally, an injury-free control group matched for age, BMI, position, and experience was assembled to allow for comparisons in performance, availability, and career length. Results: In total, 79 adductor injuries across 65 NBA athletes were identified. The average injured player was 28.3 +/- 4.0 years of age, and had 6.5 +/- 4.2 seasons of NBA experience. Guards were injured more frequently than forwards or centers (49% vs 25% vs 25%, respectively). All players were able to RTP following first-time adductor injury after missing an average of 7.7 +/- 9.8 games (median [IQR]: 4 [1-9]) and 16.9 +/- 20.4 days (median [IQR]: 9 [3.5-20]). Twelve players (18.5%) suffered an adductor re-injury at a mean latency of 509.5 +/- 503.9 days. Adductor injuries did not result in significant changes in any major statistical category (points, assists, rebounds, steals, blocks, turnovers, field goal percentage), player efficiency rating (PER), minutes/game, games/season, or a number of all-star selections (all P > 0.05) following RTP. Additionally, when compared to matched controls, no difference was found in pre- to post-injury change of PER, games/season, or minutes/game (all P > 0.05). Career longevity was not significantly different between groups (P = 0.44). Conclusion: Following adductor injury, NBA players returned to gameplay after missing an average of 16 to 17 days, or 7 to 8 games. Adductor injury did not affect player performance, nor game availability or career longevity.		[Patel, Bhavik H.; Lu, Yining; Baker, James D.; Forsythe, Brian] Rush Univ, Midwest Orthopaed RUSH, Med Ctr, 1611 W Harrison St,Suite 360, Chicago, IL 60612 USA; [Okoroha, Kelechi R.; Jildeh, Toufic R.] Henry Ford Hlth Syst, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Detroit, MI USA; [Nwachukwu, Benedict U.; Allen, Answorth A.] Hosp Special Surg, Dept Orthopaed Surg, 535 E 70th St, New York, NY 10021 USA; [Foster, Mitchell G.] Univ Calif San Diego, Sch Med, La Jolla, CA 92093 USA; [Patel, Bhavik H.] Rush Univ, Midwest Orthopaed RUSH, Med Ctr, 1611 W Harrison St,Suite 360, Chicago, IL 60612 USA								19							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000523702800001	55	Article; Article		
J	Ulas, Kardem; Semin, Ilgi								The Biological and Motivational Effects of Aerobic Exercise with Virtual Reality								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				92	3			321	326		10.1080/02701367.2020.1729329			JUL 3 2021	2021	Purpose: There is no significant evidence of both biological and motivational effects between virtual reality exercises to traditional/conventional exercise. The aim of this study is to assess the biological and motivational effects of aerobic exercises with virtual reality and traditional exercise methods. Methods: 20 students participated as control and 60 students were divided randomly and equally into two groups, virtual reality exercise group (VRE) and traditional exercise group (TE). Two groups completed the exercise training. Tests were applied to the three groups at the beginning and in the end of the study. An activity monitor and pulse oximeter were used to measure energy expenditure during exercises. Results: After eight weeks, the data from pulse oximeter showed no statistical significance between the exercise groups. The active energy expenditure, PAL and step counts were statistically significant in TE group. There was a statistically significant increase in the sleep quality of the TE group (p = .000). There was no statistical significance among the anxiety scores of all groups. In the spring semester, there was a statistically significant increase in both VRE and TE groups compared to the fall semester (p < .05). Conclusion: The virtual reality exercises produce greater motivational effects, whereas traditional exercises bring greater physical improvements.		[Ulas, Kardem; Semin, Ilgi] Izmir Univ Econ, Izmir, Turkey; [Ulas, Kardem] Final Int Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, CY-99350 Kyrenia, Cyprus								12							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000524246200001	28	Article; Article		
J	Sanchez-Pay, Alejandro; Torres-Luque, Gema; Sanz-Rivas, David; Courel-Ibanez, Javier								The use of bounce in professional wheelchair tennis								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				15	3			375	381	1747954120912372	10.1177/1747954120912372			JUN 2020	2020	The purpose of this study was to determine the influence of the use of bounce on performance in wheelchair tennis. Data pertaining to all the hits on the ball (n = 4021) were recorded from 16 men's singles professional matches. Performance parameters regarding to players' skill level (high- and low-ranked) the game situation (players and the serve-return situation), technical-tactical aspects (hitting side), and outcome (stroke and point outcome) were included in multivariate regression and decision tree models. The results determined that the skill level (v2o 1 1/4 7.164, p> 0.01) and stroke outcome (v2o 2 = 14.099, p> 0.01) were the main predictors of the number of bounces, with high-ranked players using more bounces than the low-ranked. Stroke outcome was the main distinguishing factor of the use of bounce (v2o 4 = 51.424, p< 0.01, V = 0.08), with a greater use of zero bounces in winners and errors, one bounce in rallies, and two bounces in winners. These findings should be taken into consideration by coaches to design specific training systems according to the requirements from wheelchair tennis.		[Sanchez-Pay, Alejandro; Courel-Ibanez, Javier] Univ Murcia, Fac Sport Sci, Murcia, Spain; [Torres-Luque, Gema] Royal Spanish Tennis Federat, Barcelona, Spain; [Sanz-Rivas, David] Univ Jaen, Andalucia, Spain; [Sanchez-Pay, Alejandro] Fac Sport Sci, Argentina S-N, Murcia, Spain								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000523908700001	36	Article; Article		
J	Portillo, Javier; Abian, Pablo; Calvo, Bibiana; Paredes, Victor; Abian-Vicen, Javier								Effects of muscular injuries on the technical and physical performance of professional soccer players								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				48	4			437	441		10.1080/00913847.2020.1744485			OCT 1 2020	2020	Introduction: The aim of this study was to determine the effects of muscular injuries in the lower limbs on the technical and physical performance of professional soccer players when they return to the league competition. Methods: Seventy-six muscular injuries incurred by Spanish male professional soccer players (Age: 27.5 +/- 3.5 years) were analyzed during two consecutive competitive seasons: 2014-2015 and 2015-2016. The players' performance was studied during Spanish First Division competitive matches using a multi-camera computerized tracking system (Mediacoach Desktop). Results: After muscular injury relative total distance covered in sprints decreased by 8.6 +/- 30.2% (P = 0.013) in the first half and 7.7 +/- 36.6% (P = 0.038) in the second half. Similarly, maximal running speed decreased by 2.78 +/- 6.91 km.h(-1) (pre: 27.3 +/- 6.4 km.h(-1) vs. post: 24.5 +/- 6.6 km.h(-1), P = 0.013) in the first half, and 1.50 +/- 5.68 km.h(-1) (29.1 +/- 3.9 km.h(-1) vs. 27.6 +/- 5.3 km.h(-1), P = 0.043) in the second half. Muscle injury also affected technical performance significantly decreasing successful passes (P = 0.045). There were no differences in the number of possession gains (P = 0.277), and possession losses (P = 0.178). Conclusions: After a moderate or severe muscular injury (causing >8 days lay off), player performance is significantly lower in high-intensity efforts and technical skills such as sprints, maximal running speed, or successful passes.		[Portillo, Javier; Calvo, Bibiana; Abian-Vicen, Javier] Univ Castilla La Mancha, Fac Sport Sci, Performance & Sport Rehabil Lab, Avda Carlos III S-N, Toledo 45071, Spain; [Abian, Pablo] Comillas Pontifical Univ, Fac Humanities & Social Sci, Madrid, Spain; [Paredes, Victor] Camilo Jose Cela Univ, Fac Hlth, Madrid, Spain; [Abian-Vicen, Javier] Univ Castilla La Mancha, Fac Sport Sci, Performance & Sport Rehabil Lab, Avda Carlos III S-N, Toledo 45071, Spain								11							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000523963300001	35	Article; Article		
J	Linthorne, Nicholas P.								The correlation between jump height and mechanical power in a countermovement jump is artificially inflated								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				20	1			3	21		10.1080/14763141.2020.1721737			JAN 2 2021	2021	The countermovement jump is commonly used to assess an athlete's neuromuscular capacity. The aim of this study was to identify the mechanism behind the strong correlation between jump height and mechanical power in a countermovement jump. Three athletes each performed between 47 and 60 maximal-effort countermovement jumps on a force platform. For all three athletes, peak mechanical power and average mechanical power were strongly correlated with jump height (r = 0.54-0.90). The correlation between jump height and peak power was largely determined by the correlation between jump height and the velocity at peak power (r = 0.83-0.94) and was not related to the correlation between jump height and the ground reaction force at peak power (r = -0.20-0.18). These results confirm that the strong correlation between jump height and power is an artefact arising from how power is calculated. Power is a compound variable calculated from the product of instantaneous ground reaction force and instantaneous velocity, and application of statistical theory shows that the correlation between jump height and power is artificially inflated by the near-perfect correlation between jump height and the velocity at peak power. Despite this finding, mechanical power might still be useful in assessing the neuromuscular capacity of an athlete.		[Linthorne, Nicholas P.] Brunel Univ London, Dept Life Sci, Div Sport Hlth & Exercise Sci, Uxbridge, Middx, England; [Linthorne, Nicholas P.] Brunel Univ London, Dept Life Sci, Div Sport Hlth & Exercise Sci, Uxbridge, Middx, England								38							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000524208200001	31	Article; Article		
J	Haag, Samuel J.								Getting to first base: Running is faster than sliding in collegiate baseball and softball players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				15	3			347	353	1747954120913858	10.1177/1747954120913858			JUN 2020	2020	Previous research has shown no significant differences in time required to reach a base when sliding head-first or feet-first, but few studies have compared running through and sliding into first base in baseball players, and none have included softball players. The purpose of the present study was to examine differences in time required to reach first base when running, sliding head-first, and sliding feet-first. Twelve female collegiate softball players (20.0 +/- 1.3 years old) and 14 male collegiate baseball players (20.6 +/- 1.6 years old) performed three trials each of running, sliding head-first, and sliding feet-first in a randomized, counterbalanced order with 1-2 min of rest between each trial. Testing was conducted in an indoor practice facility and trials were timed using a dual-beam wireless infrared timing system. Significant differences between the three approaches were found for both softball (p < .001) and baseball players (p < .001), and follow-up pairwise comparisons showed running through the base was significantly faster than sliding head-first (p = .001 for softball, p = .009 for baseball) and feet-first (p < .001 for softball, p = .002 for baseball). Differences between sliding head-first and feet-first were not significant in either group. Running through first base is significantly faster than sliding in collegiate baseball and softball players. Sliding into first base should only be attempted when avoiding a tag from or a collision with a fielder.		[Haag, Samuel J.] Concordia Univ, Dept Kinesiol & Hlth Sci, 1282 Concordia Ave, St Paul, MN 55104 USA; [Haag, Samuel J.] Concordia Univ, Dept Kinesiol & Hlth Sci, 1282 Concordia Ave, St Paul, MN 55104 USA								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000523877200001	15	Article; Article		
J	Ciampolini, Vitor; Tozetto, Alexandre V. B.; Milan, Fabricio J.; Camire, Martin; Milistetd, Michel								Lifelong learning pathway of a coach developer operating in a national sport federation								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				15	3			428	438	1747954120912384	10.1177/1747954120912384			JUN 2020	2020	Coach developers play essential roles in "coaching the coaches," and investigating their lifelong learning pathway is key for better understanding the mechanisms that lead certain coaches to become coach developers. Thus, the purpose of the paper was to conduct a case study to investigate the lifelong learning pathway of a coach developer operating in a national sport federation. The case investigated is Mille, a certified coach developer in charge of the Brazilian Rugby Federation's coach education program. Data were collected through the Rappaport Time Line and two semi-structured interviews. An interpretative phenomenological analysis was adopted to explore the lived experiences reported by the participant. The results highlighted that Mille is an individual driven by challenges provided either by external factors (i.e. school, university, work) or by his own choices (i.e. becoming a coach, becoming a coach developer, starting a PhD) for personal and professional development. Specific life events led him to make decisions for evolving in his roles, from athlete, to coach, to coach developer, and to "master trainer," which is the highest level of certification provided by World Rugby. Practical implications are suggested to contribute to the organization of education initiatives for coach developers through a lifelong learning perspective.		[Ciampolini, Vitor; Tozetto, Alexandre V. B.; Milan, Fabricio J.; Milistetd, Michel] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Sports Ctr, Florianopolis, SC, Brazil; [Camire, Martin] Univ Ottawa, Sch Human Kinet, Ottawa, ON, Canada; [Ciampolini, Vitor] Rua Moraes 109, BR-88063274 Florianopolis, SC, Brazil								15							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000523870400001	38	Article; Article		
J	Hirschhorn, Rebecca M.; Cadet, Danielle; Delus, Rodain; Phillips, Jessica; Murphy, Tenley E.; Haggard, Clinton; Razayeski, Jerome; Yeargin, Susan								The prevalence of sickle cell trait in Division I university athletics programs								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				48	4			430	436		10.1080/00913847.2020.1740628			OCT 1 2020	2020	Objectives: To determine the prevalence of student-athletes with sickle cell trait (SCT) and describe their demographics, prior knowledge of status, and hemoglobin (Hb) profile. Methods: A retrospective chart review was conducted at two National Collegiate Athletic Association Division I universities. Participants were student-athletes during the 2010/11-2018/19 academic years. The independent variable was SCT status. Main outcome measures included actual prevalence of SCT positive student-athletes, sex, race, sport, prior knowledge of personal and family history SCT status, and Hb profile (HbA, HbA2, HbS, HbF, HbC) proportions. Results: Fifty-three SCT positive student-athletes (13.2 +/- 2.0 per academic year) were identified, accounting for similar to 1% of the student-athlete population annually. The majority were Black/African-American (n = 49, 100.0%; 4 missing) and males (n = 44, 83.0%). Football had the majority (n = 28, 52.8%) of SCT student-athletes. Most student-athletes were unaware of their SCT status (n = 33, 62.3%). There was no difference between actual and expected prevalence of SCT student-athletes overall and by race in any academic year (p > 0.05). Results of Hb electrophoresis testing were available for 44 (83.0%) student-athletes. Average values for HbA, HbA2, HbS, HbF and HbC were 58.54 +/- 4.26%, 3.42 +/- 0.53%, 37.99 +/- 4.60%, 0.17 +/- 0.68% and 0.00 +/- 0.00%, respectively. Conclusions: Student-athletes with SCT were a small proportion of the student-athlete population. The majority of SCT student-athletes had no prior knowledge of personal or family history; therefore, it is insufficient to rely on self-reported history. No difference was found between actual and expected prevalence of SCT student-athletes. Due to high proportion of student-athletes who are unaware of their SCT status, institutions should facilitate SCT screening with confirmatory testing for all student-athletes to prevent missed identification of those with SCT.		[Hirschhorn, Rebecca M.; Cadet, Danielle; Delus, Rodain; Phillips, Jessica; Haggard, Clinton; Yeargin, Susan] Univ South Carolina, Dept Exercise Sci, Columbia, SC 29208 USA; [Murphy, Tenley E.; Razayeski, Jerome] Clemson Univ, Athlet Dept, Clemson, SC USA; [Hirschhorn, Rebecca M.] Univ South Carolina, Blatt PE Ctr, 1300 Wheat St,Rm 101B, Columbia, SC 29208 USA								4							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000519509900001	40	Article; Article		
J	Sujae, Ian Harris; Jabbar, Khalid; Ong, Chin Yong; Hamill, Joseph								Differences in joint loading during a side-step cutting manoeuvre on different artificial turf infill depths								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				21	9			981	992		10.1080/14763141.2020.1713206			OCT 21 2022	2022	This study investigated differences in joint loading during a side-step manoeuvre on artificial grass turfs with different infill depths. The kinematics and kinetics of 17 trained male inter-college soccer players performing the manoeuvre were captured using 10 high-speed optical cameras synchronised to a force-platform at sampling frequencies of 250 Hz and 1000 Hz respectively. Significantly larger lateral forces (GRF(xpeak)) (p = 0.036), larger anterior/posterior forces (GRF(ypeak)) (p = 0.062) and larger vertical forces (GRF(zpeak)) (p = 0.390) suggests that turf with greater infill depths may be firmer. This could elicit greater stresses on the lower extremity, thereby increasing the risk of knee ligament injuries. Significant differences were reported only for ankle inversion angle (p = 0.001; ES = 0.74), inversion/eversion ankle moment (p = 0.039; ES = 0.52) and abduction-adduction ankle moment (p = 0.022; ES = 0.79) at GRFz(peak). Lower extremity adaptations to execute the manoeuvre on turf with greater infill depths may have taken place at the ankle rather than the knee. While this change in technique may implicate injuries, greater infill depths can be counter-intuitive where a certain level of hardness in the artificial turf might be necessary which otherwise could affect the athletes' performance and potentially reduce injury risk.		[Sujae, Ian Harris; Ong, Chin Yong; Hamill, Joseph] Republ Polytech, Sch Hlth Sports & Leisure, Singapore, Singapore; [Jabbar, Khalid] Khoo Teck Puat Hosp, Geriatr Educ & Res Inst, Singapore, Singapore; [Hamill, Joseph] Univ Massachusetts, Dept Kinesiol, Amherst, MA 01003 USA; [Sujae, Ian Harris] Republ Polytech, Sch Hlth Sports & Leisure, Singapore, Singapore								5							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000519460300001	30	Article; Article		
J	Perez-Castilla, Alejandro; Jerez-Mayorga, Daniel; Martinez-Garcia, Dario; Rodriguez-Perea, Angela; Chirosa-Rios, Luis J.; Garcia-Ramos, Amador								Comparison of the bench press one-repetition maximum obtained by different procedures: Direct assessment vs. lifts-to-failure equations vs. two-point method								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				15	3			337	346	1747954120911312	10.1177/1747954120911312			JUN 2020	2020	This study examined the differences in the bench press one-repetition maximum obtained by three different methods (direct method, lifts-to-failure method, and two-point method). Twenty young men were tested in four different sessions. A single grip width (close, medium, wide, or self-selected) was randomly used on each session. Each session consisted of an incremental loading test until reaching the one-repetition maximum, followed by a single set of lifts-to-failure against the 75% one-repetition maximum load. The last load lifted during the incremental loading test was considered the actual one-repetition maximum (direct method). The one-repetition maximum was also predicted using the Mayhew's equation (lifts-to-failure method) and the individual load-velocity relationship modeled from two data points (two-point method). The actual one-repetition maximum was underestimated by the lifts-to-failure method (range: 1-2 kg) and overestimated by the two-point method (range: -3 to -1 kg), being these differences accentuated using closer grip widths. All predicted one-repetition maximums were practically perfect correlated with the actual one-repetition maximum (r >= 0.95; standard error of the estimate <= 4 kg). The one-repetition maximum was higher using the medium grip width (83 +/- 3 kg) compared to the close (80 +/- 3 kg) and wide (79 +/- 3 kg) grip widths (P <= 0.025), while no significant differences were observed between the medium and self-selected (81 +/- 3 kg) grip widths (P = 1.000). In conclusion, although both the Mayhew's equation and the two-point method are able to predict the actual one-repetition maximum with an acceptable precision, the differences between the actual and predicted one-repetition maximums seem to increase when using close grip widths.		[Perez-Castilla, Alejandro; Martinez-Garcia, Dario; Rodriguez-Perea, Angela; Chirosa-Rios, Luis J.; Garcia-Ramos, Amador] Univ Granada, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Granada, Spain; [Jerez-Mayorga, Daniel] Univ Andres Bello, Fac Ciencias Rehabil, Santiago, Chile; [Garcia-Ramos, Amador] Univ Catolica Santisima Concepcion, Dept Sports Sci & Phys Conditioning, Concepcion, Chile; [Garcia-Ramos, Amador] Univ Catolica Santisima Concepcion, Dept Sports Sci & Phys Conditioning, Fac Educ, Concepcion, Chile								19							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000524133300001	34	Article; Article		
J	Jeon, Kyoungkyu; Kim, Kewwan; Kang, Nyeonju								Leg stiffness control during drop landing movement in individuals with mechanical and functional ankle disabilities								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				21	9			1093	1106		10.1080/14763141.2020.1726997			OCT 21 2022	2022	Purpose: Individuals with mechanical ankle instability (MAI) and functional ankle instability (FAI) present with residual movement dysfunctions after an initial lateral ankle sprain. This study investigated leg stiffness control to determine how behavioural characteristics between MAI and FAI differ during single-leg drop landing movement. Methods: Thirty individuals (10 with MAI, 10 with FAI, and 10 healthy controls) participated in this study. During single-leg drop landing movement, we estimated dimensionless leg stiffness, peak vertical force (PVF), change in the displacement of leg movement, loading rate, angular joint movement, and internal joint moment for impaired and unimpaired legs, respectively. Univariate one-way analysis of variance was used for each dependent variable across leg conditions. Results: The MAI group had lower dimensionless leg stiffness with greater change in the displacement of leg movement for the impaired leg than the FAI and control groups. Moreover, reduced leg stiffness was associated with greater hip joint flexion movement in the MAI group, whereas ankle dorsiflexion movement increased to decrease the leg stiffness in the FAI and control groups. Conclusion: These findings indicate that lower leg stiffness in the MAI group than in the FAI group may be attributed to compensatory actions to minimise reliance on their ankle movement after landing.		[Jeon, Kyoungkyu; Kim, Kewwan; Kang, Nyeonju] Incheon Natl Univ, Div Sport Sci, Coll Arts & Phys Educ, Incheon, South Korea; [Jeon, Kyoungkyu; Kim, Kewwan; Kang, Nyeonju] Incheon Natl Univ, Sport Sci Inst, Coll Arts & Phys Educ, Incheon, South Korea; [Kang, Nyeonju] Incheon Natl Univ, Div Sport Sci, Coll Arts & Phys Educ, Incheon, South Korea								15							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000519358900001	44	Article; Article		
J	Rial-Vazquez, Jessica; Mayo, Xian; Tufano, James J.; Farinas, Juan; Rua-Alonso, Maria; Iglesias-Soler, Eliseo								Cluster vs. traditional training programmes: changes in the force-velocity relationship								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				21	1			85	103		10.1080/14763141.2020.1718197			JAN 2 2022	2022	This randomised controlled study examined the force-velocity relationship changes (force and velocity axis intercepts, slope and estimated maximum power) in response to 5-week training programmes differing in the set configuration. For each session, the traditional group performed 4 sets of 8 repetitions with 5 min of rest between sets and exercises, while the cluster group completed 16 sets of 2 repetitions with 1 min of rest between sets and 5 min between exercises. Both programmes were performed with the 10-repetition maximum load, including bench press, parallel squat, lat pull-down and leg curl exercises. Individual force-velocity profiles were obtained for bench press and squat using a linear velocity transducer before and after the intervention, along with lactate and mechanical performance during the intervention. Results showed in bench press similar changes of the force-velocity profile after both protocols (no shift of the slope and higher force and velocity axis intercept values). For the squat, significant changes in the slope (P = 0.001) and the velocity intercept (P = 0.002) towards a velocity profile were observed after cluster but not after traditional training. These results suggest that set configuration may modulate changes of force-velocity relationship, especially for squat.		[Rial-Vazquez, Jessica; Mayo, Xian; Farinas, Juan; Rua-Alonso, Maria; Iglesias-Soler, Eliseo] Univ A Coruna, Fac Sports Sci & Phys Educ, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Performance & Hlth Grp, La Coruna, Spain; [Mayo, Xian] King Juan Carlos Univ, Ctr Sport Studies, Observ Hlth & Act Living Spain Act Fdn, Madrid, Spain; [Tufano, James J.] Edith Cowan Univ, Ctr Exercise & Sport Sci Res, Joondalup, Australia; [Tufano, James J.] Charles Univ Prague, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Prague, Czech Republic; [Iglesias-Soler, Eliseo] Univ A Coruna, Fac Sports Sci & Phys Educ, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Performance & Hlth Grp, La Coruna, Spain								32							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000518718300001	45	Article; Article		
J	Kabacinski, Jaroslaw; Fryzowicz, Anna; Blaszczyk, Anna; Murawa, Michal; Gorwa, Joanna; Ogurkowska, Malgorzata B.								Comparison of isokinetic knee torque and bioelectrical activity for hamstrings, quadriceps and erector spinae muscles in elite rowers								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				21	9			1082	1092		10.1080/14763141.2020.1726996			OCT 21 2022	2022	In sweep rowers, the lower extremities muscle strength translates into the driving force of the boat. Therefore, isokinetic assessment of muscle torque is used by coaches as an indicator of the level of athletes' preparation for competitions. A total of 22 elite sweep rowers performed an isokinetic test of knee joint flexors and extensors, and a test on an asymmetric ergometer with the electromyography measures. Significantly higher quadriceps peak torque was shown during the beginning than the end of the preparatory period (p < 0.05). However, there was no significant knee peak torque difference between the lower extremities (p = 0.398). In the case of the electromyography test of quadriceps, hamstrings and lumbar erector spinae, analysis demonstrated significant bioelectrical activity differences between the sides (p < 0.05). Lower values of quadriceps peak torque at the end of the preparatory period may result from a decrease in the number of power training units during the entire preparatory period. A similar muscle strength between both lower extremities seems to be the correct result in the context of injury prevention. In turn, significant bioelectrical activity differences between the sides possibly are associated with the asymmetric movement pattern in sweep rowers.		[Kabacinski, Jaroslaw; Fryzowicz, Anna; Blaszczyk, Anna; Murawa, Michal; Gorwa, Joanna; Ogurkowska, Malgorzata B.] Poznan Univ Phys Educ, Dept Biomech, Poznan, Poland; [Blaszczyk, Anna] Poznan Univ Phys Educ, Dept Biomech, Poznan, Poland								4							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000518738500001	21	Article; Article		
J	Morais, Jorge E.; Lopes, Vitor P.; Barbosa, Tiago M.; Moriyama, Shin-Ichiro; Marinho, Daniel A.								How does 11-week detraining affect 11-12 years old swimmers' biomechanical determinants and its relationship with 100 m freestyle performance?								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				21	9			1107	1121		10.1080/14763141.2020.1726998			OCT 21 2022	2022	The aim of this study was to analyse the detraining process that occurs during a season break, and its influence on the performance, anthropometrics, and biomechanics of young swimmers. The sample included 54 young swimmers (22 boys: 12.79 +/- 0.71 years; 32 girls: 11.78 +/- 0.85 years). Performance for the 100 m freestyle and anthropometric and biomechanical variables were evaluated as main determinants. Performance impaired significantly for boys (2.17%) and girls (1.91%). All anthropometric variables increased between moments of assessment for boys and girls. Overall, the boys enhanced all biomechanical variables during the detraining period, and girls showed mixed results. For both sexes, the stroke index was the variable with the highest increase (boys: Delta = 16.16%; d = 0.89; p = 0.001; girls: Delta = 19.51%; d = 1.06; p = 0.002). Hierarchical linear modelling showed that the height retained the amount of impairment in the performance. One unit of increase in the height (cm) led to less 0.41 s impairment in the performance. Present data indicated that during an 11-weeks detraining period, young swimmers impaired their performance, but the determinant factors showed an impaired relationship. This increase in the determinant factors is mainly related to the increase in the swimmers' anthropometrics. Moreover, the increase in height was responsible for retaining the performance impairment.		[Morais, Jorge E.; Lopes, Vitor P.; Barbosa, Tiago M.] Polytech Inst Braganca, Dept Sport Sci, Braganca, Portugal; [Morais, Jorge E.] Higher Inst Educ Sci Douro, Dept Sport Sci & Phys Educ, Penafiel, Portugal; [Morais, Jorge E.; Lopes, Vitor P.; Barbosa, Tiago M.; Marinho, Daniel A.] Univ Beira Interior, Res Ctr Sports Hlth & Human Dev CIDESD, Covilha, Portugal; [Moriyama, Shin-Ichiro] Tokyo Gakugei Univ, Dept Hlth & Sports Sci, Fac Educ, Tokyo, Japan; [Marinho, Daniel A.] Univ Beira Interior, Dept Sport Sci, Covilha, Portugal; [Morais, Jorge E.] Polytech Inst Braganca, Dept Sport Sci, Braganca, Portugal; [Morais, Jorge E.] Higher Inst Educ Sci Douro, Dept Sport Sci & Phys Educ, Penafiel, Portugal; [Morais, Jorge E.] Univ Beira Interior, Res Ctr Sports Hlth & Human Dev CIDESD, Covilha, Portugal								42							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000518450400001	36	Article; Article		
J	Hebert-Losier, Kim; Lamb, Peter; Beaven, C. Martyn								Biomechanical determinants of placekicking success in professional Rugby Union players								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				21	7			861	876		10.1080/14763141.2020.1728368			AUG 9 2022	2022	The ability to score from placekicks discriminates winning from losing Rugby Union teams. We aimed to identify which biomechanical variables related to successful placekicking in professional Rugby Union players, and use self-organising maps (SOM) to determine whether meaningful sub-groups existed. Three professional placekickers performed 10 kicks outdoors. Placekicks were categorised into best, worst, and typical performances based on outcomes and coach and player perceptions. Seven 3D biomechanical variables consistently and meaningfully (moderate Cohen's effect size) discriminated best from worst placekicks in all players. The three-cluster solution from SOM on these seven variables highlighted differences between players rather than best, worst, and typical attempts. Within-clusters, however, the best and worst placekicks tended to be represented in separate map regions. The seven variables identified using standardised effect sizes can be useful for group-level coaching of placekicking skills in absence of individual data, and translated in an applied setting using verbal and visual cues to promote overall placekicking performance. However, players' idiosyncrasies formed the main SOM boundaries, indicating that optimising placekicking success would benefit from an individualised approach and numerous effective movement templates may exist.		[Hebert-Losier, Kim; Beaven, C. Martyn] Univ Waikato, Te Huataki Waiora Sch Hlth, Div Hlth Engn Comp & Sci, Tauranga, New Zealand; [Lamb, Peter] Univ Otago, Sch Phys Educ Sport & Exercise Sci, Dunedin, New Zealand; [Hebert-Losier, Kim] Univ Waikato, Te Huataki Waiora Sch Hlth, Div Hlth Engn Comp & Sci, Tauranga, New Zealand								3							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000518451100001	41	Article; Article		
J	Levine, Nicholas A.; Hasan, Mohammad B.; Avalos, Marco A.; Lee, Sangwoo; Rigby, Brandon R.; Kwon, Young-Hoo								Effects of kettlebell mass on lower-body joint kinetics during a kettlebell swing exercise								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				21	9			1032	1045		10.1080/14763141.2020.1726442			OCT 21 2022	2022	Functional training aims to provide specific adaptations due to exercise training and utilises a variety of equipment, including kettlebells. Due to the training principle of overload, a greater resistance must be applied to yield increased strength results. This study examined the effects of kettlebell mass on lower body joint kinetics in young recreationally trained adults. Thirty recreationally active, college-aged adults were recruited for this study. Participants performed hip-hinge style swings with kettlebells equivalent to 10%, 15% and 20% of their respective body mass. 3-D marker coordinate data were captured via infrared camera system and ground reaction force data were measured with two force plates. The resultant joint moments of the lower body were calculated using the inverse dynamics procedure. As mass increased, there was an increase in joint moment at the L4/5, hip and ankle joint, primarily due to an increase in ground reaction force. Increasing kettlebell mass can potentially cause greater strength gains in the hip and trunk musculature due to increase in lower body moments, while avoiding excessive moments about the knee.		[Levine, Nicholas A.; Hasan, Mohammad B.; Avalos, Marco A.; Rigby, Brandon R.; Kwon, Young-Hoo] Texas Womans Univ, Sch Hlth Promot & Kinesiol, Biomech & Motor Behav Lab, Denton, TX 76204 USA; [Lee, Sangwoo] Western Michigan Univ, Biomech Lab, Kalamazoo, MI 49008 USA; [Levine, Nicholas A.] Texas Womans Univ, Sch Hlth Promot & Kinesiol, Biomech & Motor Behav Lab, Denton, TX 76204 USA								14							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000518542500001	31	Article; Article		
J	Jewell, R. Todd								NCAA Expenditure and Efficiency: Analyzing Generated and Allocated Revenue in the Football Bowl Subdivision								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				21	4			363	390	1527002520906530	10.1177/1527002520906530			MAY 2020	2020	Using a stochastic production function approach and a dynamic panel data estimator, this study creates estimates of time-varying efficiency in the production of generated revenues for NCAA Division I football bowl subdivision athletic programs. These efficiency estimates are then compared to the use of allocated revenues-fees from students and direct payments from the university budget-by college athletic departments. While all schools that are less efficient in the production of generated revenue are shown to use allocated revenue more intensively, a major finding is power-conference schools that are less efficient in their use of expenditure inputs tend to rely more heavily on allocated revenue in the form of student fees to support the activities of the program.		[Jewell, R. Todd] Texas State Univ, Dept Finance & Econ, 601 Univ Dr, San Marcos, TX 78666 USA; [Jewell, R. Todd] Texas State Univ, Dept Finance & Econ, 601 Univ Dr, San Marcos, TX 78666 USA								2							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000517865700001	36	Article; Article		
J	Liu, Yang; Gao, Binghong; Li, Jiru; Ma, Zuchang; Sun, Yining								Increased foot-stretcher height improves rowing performance: evidence from biomechanical perspectives on water								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				19	2			168	179		10.1080/14763141.2018.1453540			MAR 3 2020	2020	The aim of this study was to investigate whether changes on foot-stretcher height were associated with characteristics of better rowing performance. Ten male rowers performed a 200 m rowing trial at their racing rate at each of three foot-stretcher heights. A single scull was equipped with an accelerometer to collect boat acceleration, an impeller with embedded magnets to collect boat speed, specially designed gate sensors to collect gate force and angle, and a compact string potentiometer to collect leg drive length. All sensor signals were sampled at 50 Hz. A one-way repeated measures ANOVA showed that raising foot-stretcher position had a significant reduction on total gate angle and leg drive length. However, a raised foot-stretcher position had a deeper negative peak of boat acceleration at the catch, a lower boat fluctuation, a faster leg drive speed, a larger gate force for the port and starboard side separately. This could be attributed to the optimisation of the magnitude and direction of the foot force with a raised foot-stretcher position. Although there was a significant negative influence of a raised foot-stretcher position on two kinematic variables, biomechanical evidence suggested that a raised foot-stretcher position could contribute to the improvement of rowing performance.		[Liu, Yang; Ma, Zuchang; Sun, Yining] Chinese Acad Sci, Inst Intelligent Machines, Hefei Inst Phys Sci, Hefei, Peoples R China; [Liu, Yang; Ma, Zuchang; Sun, Yining] Univ Sci & Technol China, Dept Automat, Hefei, Peoples R China; [Gao, Binghong] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Phys Educ & Sport Training, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Li, Jiru] Guangdong Res Inst Sports Sci, Sports Biomech Lab, Guangzhou, Peoples R China; [Liu, Yang] Chinese Acad Sci, Inst Intelligent Machines, Hefei Inst Phys Sci, Hefei, Peoples R China; [Liu, Yang] Univ Sci & Technol China, Dept Automat, Hefei, Peoples R China								6							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000512198300003	22	Article; Article		
J	Menard, Mathieu; Domalain, Mathieu; Decatoire, Arnaud; Lacouture, Patrick								Influence of saddle setback on knee joint forces in cycling								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				19	2			245	257		10.1080/14763141.2018.1466906			MAR 3 2020	2020	Knee functional disorders are one of the most common lower extremity non-traumatic injuries reported by cyclists. Incorrect bicycle configuration may predispose cyclist to injury but the evidence of an effect of saddle setback on knee pain remains inconclusive. The aim of this study was to determine the effect of saddle setback on knee joint forces during pedalling using a musculoskeletal modelling approach. Ten cyclists were assessed under three saddle setback conditions (range of changes in saddle position 6 cm) while pedalling at a steady power output of 200 W and cadence of 90 rpm. A cycling musculoskeletal model was developed and knee joint forces were estimated using an inverse dynamics method associated with a static optimisation procedure. Our results indicate that moving the saddle forwards was not associated with an increase of patellofemoral joint forces. On the contrary, the tibiofemoral mean and peak compression force were 14 and 15% higher in the Backward than in the Forward condition, respectively. The peak compression force was related to neither pedal force nor quadriceps muscle force but coincided with the eccentric contraction of knee flexor muscles. These findings should benefit bike fitting practitioners and coaches in the design of specific training/rehabilitation protocols.		[Menard, Mathieu] Rennes Inst Osteopathy, Res Dept, Bruz, France; [Menard, Mathieu; Domalain, Mathieu; Decatoire, Arnaud; Lacouture, Patrick] Univ Poitiers, Prime Inst, Poitiers, France; [Menard, Mathieu; Domalain, Mathieu; Decatoire, Arnaud; Lacouture, Patrick] Univ Poitiers, Sport Sci Dept, Poitiers, France; [Domalain, Mathieu] Univ Poitiers, Prime Inst, Poitiers, France; [Domalain, Mathieu] Univ Poitiers, Sport Sci Dept, Poitiers, France								19							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000512198300010	43	Article; Article		
J	Noe, Frederic; Garcia-Masso, Xavier; Delaygue, Pauline; Melon, Audrey; Paillard, Thierry								The influence of wearing ski-boots with different rigidity characteristics on postural control								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				19	2			157	167		10.1080/14763141.2018.1452973			MAR 3 2020	2020	External supports that reduce ankle joint mobility such as ski-boots can impair postural control of healthy participants. Although this disruptive effect has been attributed to the rigidity of the external supports, the results remained controversial and no study has been conducted in order to evaluate the influence of ski-boots rigidity. Hence, the question about the influence of ankle support rigidity on postural control remains open. This study was therefore undertaken in order to investigate the effect of ski-boots rigidity on postural control. Ten healthy active participants were recruited. The wearing of soft and rigid ski-boots was compared to barefoot while standing on a seesaw generating mediolateral and anteroposterior instability. Centre of pressure displacements were sampled with a force platform. The surface electromyographic activity of the main muscles from the leg, thigh and trunk was recorded. A motion analysis system was also used to calculate the ankle, knee and hip angles. The results did not reveal any negative influence of ski-boot rigidity on postural control but rather suggest a less active postural control with the rigid ski-boots which offered a higher mechanical contribution.		[Noe, Frederic; Delaygue, Pauline; Melon, Audrey; Paillard, Thierry] Univ Pau & Adour Countries, Movement Balance Performance & Hlth Lab, Tarbes, France; [Garcia-Masso, Xavier] Univ Valencia, Dept Teaching Mus Visual & Corporal Express, Valencia, Spain; [Noe, Frederic] Univ Pau & Adour Countries, Movement Balance Performance & Hlth Lab, Tarbes, France								6							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000512198300002	24	Article; Article		
J	Genevois, Cyril; Reid, Machar; Creveaux, Thomas; Rogowski, Isabelle								Kinematic differences in upper limb joints between flat and topspin forehand drives in competitive male tennis players								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				19	2			212	226		10.1080/14763141.2018.1461915			MAR 3 2020	2020	The topspin tennis forehand drive has become a feature of modern game; yet, as compared to the serve, there has been little research analysing its kinematics. This is surprising given that there is considerably more variation in the execution of the topspin forehand. Our study is the first to examine the amplitude of upper limb joint rotations that produce topspin in the forehand drives of 14 male competitive tennis players using video-based motion analysis. Humerothoracic abduction (-)/adduction (+), extension (-) /flexion (+), and external (-)/internal (+) rotation, elbow extension (-) /flexion (+) and forearm supination (-)/pronation (+), wrist extension (-)/flexion (+) and ulnar (-)/radial (-) deviation were computed. Our findings revealed that the generation of topspin demanded more humeral extension and forearm pronation but less humeral internal rotation angular displacement during the forwardswing. The follow-through phase of the topspin shot was characterised by greater humeral internal rotation and forearm pronation, and reduced humeral horizontal adduction when compared to the flat shot. This study provides practitioners with a better understanding of the upper limb kinematics associated with the topspin tennis forehand drive production to help guide skill acquisition interventions and physical training.		[Genevois, Cyril; Creveaux, Thomas; Rogowski, Isabelle] Univ Lyon, Interuniv Lab Motor Biol EA, Lyon, France; [Reid, Machar] Univ Western Australia, Sch Sport Sci Exercise & Hlth, Perth, WA, Australia; [Rogowski, Isabelle] Univ Lyon, Interuniv Lab Motor Biol EA, Lyon, France								18							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000512198300007	26	Article; Article		
J	Miyashita, Theresa L.; Diakogeorgiou, Eleni; Marrie, Kaitlyn								The role of subconcussive impacts on sway velocities in Division I men's lacrosse players								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				19	2			180	188		10.1080/14763141.2018.1458892			MAR 3 2020	2020	Head impacts resulting in a concussion negatively affect the vestibular system, but little is known about the effect of subconcussive impacts on this system. This study's objective was to determine if subconcussive head impacts sustained over one competitive lacrosse season, effect sway velocity. Healthy Division I male lacrosse players (n = 33; aged 19.52 +/- 1.20 years) wore instrumented helmets to track head impact exposures. At the beginning and end of the season the players completed an instrumented Balance Error Scoring System assessment to assess sway velocity. Score differentials were correlated to the head impact exposure data collected via instrumented helmets when averaged within participant. Paired samples t-tests revealed a post-season increase in sway velocity on the double leg stance, firm surface (p = 0.002, d = 0.59); tandem stance, firm surface (p = 0.033, d = 0.39) and double leg, foam surface (p = 0.014, d = 0.45) A significant correlation was found between change in tandem stance, firm surface sway velocities and linear acceleration (p < 0.001, r = 0.65). It appears subconcussive impacts may result in tandem stance balance deficits. Repetitive head impacts may negatively affect sway velocity, even in the absence of a diagnosed concussion injury.		[Miyashita, Theresa L.; Diakogeorgiou, Eleni; Marrie, Kaitlyn] Sacred Heart Univ, Athlet Training Dept, Fairfield, CT 06825 USA; [Miyashita, Theresa L.] Sacred Heart Univ, Athlet Training Dept, Fairfield, CT 06825 USA								13							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000512198300004	29	Article; Article		
J	Deck, Sarah; Hall, Craig; Wilson, Philip M.								The Impact of Partner Performance on Emotions in Doubles Racquet Sports								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				92	3			279	288		10.1080/02701367.2020.1726270			JUL 3 2021	2021	Purpose: Different athletes may experience different emotions, based on one's appraisal of the situation or environment. To date, this line of research has received limited research attention in sport dyads. The purpose of this study was to understand the role of a partner's play on the different types of emotion of athletes, as well as perceived impact on overall emotions, performance, and motivation in doubles racquet sports (i.e., tennis, badminton, and squash). Method: Using a post-test only, randomized experimental design, participants read one of three possible written vignettes that depicted different scenarios of their partner's play (i.e., poor, good, or usual performance). Participants (N = 103) were then asked to fill out a questionnaire packet based on the scenario read. Results: A Multivariate Analysis of Variance, as well as follow-up Analyses of Variance revealed significant differences between groups in subjective emotions based on whether their partner was playing poorly, their partner having a good performance or whether their partner was perceived as playing their usual game (control group). The results showed that athletes scored higher in anger and anxiety when their partner is playing poorly, and when their partner is having a good performance, athletes had higher scores in happiness and excitement. Conclusion: Overall, these findings imply that athletes' emotions may change based on how their partner is playing and provide a foundation to look at emotional reactions (action tendencies) and coping in sport teams.		[Deck, Sarah; Hall, Craig] Western Univ, London, ON, Canada; [Wilson, Philip M.] Brock Univ, St Catharines, ON, Canada; [Deck, Sarah] Western Univ, Sport Psychol Lab, 1151 Richmond St, London, ON, Canada								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000518823800001	47	Article; Article		
J	Santos, Sara; Coutinho, Diogo; Goncalves, Bruno; Abade, Eduardo; Pasquarelli, Bruno; Sampaio, Jaime								Effects of manipulating ball type on youth footballers' performance during small-sided games								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				15	2			170	183	1747954120908003	10.1177/1747954120908003			APR 2020	2020	This study aimed to identify the effects of manipulating the ball type in players' physical, technical, creative and tactical performance in two small-sided games situations: 4-a-side and 6-a-side. There were four conditions: (i) Football, using regular football ball; (ii) Handball, using handball ball; (iii) Rugby, playing with rugby ball, and (d) Mixed, at every 2 min the ball type was randomly changed. Players' technical and creative actions were analysed through notational analysis, while GPS positional data were used to process the physical and tactical variables. During the 4-a-side, the rugby and mixed conditions induced more effects. From the physical perspective, there were moderate decreases in the total distance covered (-11.1%; +/- 3.1% and -6.2; +/- 3.6) and distance covered while jogging (-11.9%; +/- 3.6% and -8.0; +/- 3.9) in both scenarios, respectively. In tactics, there were small to moderate decreases in both conditions in the distance between team's centroids (-5.5; +/- 6.0 and -6.8%; +/- 5.1%) and effective playing space (-16.2; +/- 9.8 and -20.6; +/- 12.3), respectively. In turn, all variables were affected by the ball type modification during the 6-a-side compared to the Football balls. Modifying the type of ball promoted small to moderate decreases in the number of successful passes and dribbles, in the fluency and versatility, as well as in most of the physical variables. Additionally, changing the ball type has also affected (small decreases) in the regularity in the distance between teams. Coaches may promote variability in the training tasks using different balls to develop the players' adaptive movement behaviours.		[Santos, Sara; Abade, Eduardo] Univ Inst Maia, CIDESD, Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev, Ismai, Maia, Portugal; [Coutinho, Diogo; Goncalves, Bruno; Sampaio, Jaime] Univ Tras Os Montes & Alto Douro, UTAD, Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth & Human Dev CIDESD, CreativeLab Res Community, Vila Real, Portugal; [Goncalves, Bruno] Portuguese Football Federat, Portugal Football Sch, Oeiras, Portugal; [Pasquarelli, Bruno] Municipal Govt Sao Jose dos Campos, Athlete Citzen Sports Program, Sao Jose Dos Campos, Brazil; [Santos, Sara] CIDESD, Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev, CreativeLab Res Community, Ap 202, P-5000911 Vila Real, Portugal								26							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000517882100001	44	Article; Article		
J	McNamara, Scott W. T.; Colombo-Dougovito, Andrew; Weiner, Brad; Ahrens, Christopher								Adapted Physical Educators' Perspectives of Educational Research								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				92	3			339	351		10.1080/02701367.2020.1732858			JUL 3 2021	2021	Purpose: Educational research often provides insight into the potential best practices to use within the classroom setting. Yet, limited information is available on teachers' perspectives toward research in the field of adapted physical education (APE). The current study examined adapted physical educators' perceptions toward research. Method: Sixty general physical education and APE associations within the United State of America were emailed a survey adapted from the National Center for Research Policy and Practice. Results: One hundred twenty-four adapted physical educators were included within the study. Spearmen correlations and frequency counts of open-ended responses were used to analyze the data. Overall, findings indicated that a majority of participants had conducted research, with most participants mentioning it helped them learn more about a particular issue they were facing. Adapted physical educators reported a high rate of engagement with research and that research has a positive impact on important issues, such as behavior management and advocating for students with disabilities. Although positive overall perceptions toward educational research were reported, several items that related to the usefulness and accessibility of research were ranked quite low. In addition, it was found that higher levels of education and years of experience were correlated with lower perceptions toward the validity and usefulness of research. Conclusion: This study highlights the important role research plays in the practice of adapted physical educators; however, researchers need to present their research findings in a more practical way for teachers to translate to their own situations.		[McNamara, Scott W. T.] Univ Northern Iowa, Cedar Falls, IA USA; [Colombo-Dougovito, Andrew] Univ Norther Texas, Denton, TX USA; [Weiner, Brad] Montgomery Cty Publ Sch, Rockville, MD USA; [Ahrens, Christopher] San Diego Unified Sch Dist, San Diego, CA USA; [McNamara, Scott W. T.] Univ Northern Iowa, Dept Kinesiol, 2301 Hudson Rd, Cedar Falls, IA 50614 USA								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000518824000001	32	Article; Article		
J	Morais, Jorge E.; Forte, Pedro; Silva, Antonio J.; Barbosa, Tiago M.; Marinho, Daniel A.								Data Modeling for Inter- and Intra-individual Stability of Young Swimmers' Performance: A Longitudinal Cluster Analysis								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				92	1			21	33		10.1080/02701367.2019.1708235			JAN 2 2021	2021	Purpose: The aims of this study were to classify, identify and follow-up young swimmers' performance and its biomechanical determinants during two competitive seasons (in seven different moments of assessment-M), and analyze the individual variations of each swimmer. Method: Thirty young swimmers (14 boys: 12.70 +/- 0.63 years-old; 16 girls: 11.72 +/- 0.71 years-old) were recruited. A set of anthropometric, kinematic, efficiency, hydrodynamic and mechanical power variables were assessed. Results: The cluster solution (i.e., number of ideal clusters for this sample) resulted in three clusters, which were named as: cluster 1 ("talented"), cluster 2 ("proficient"), and cluster 3 ("non-proficient"). The performance improved between moments of assessment in all clusters (cluster 1-M1: 68.07 +/- 6.62s vs M7: 61.46 +/- 3.43s; cluster 2-M1: 73.14 +/- 4.87s vs M7: 65.33 +/- 2.97s; cluster 3-M1: 82.60 +/- 4.18s vs M7: 70.09 +/- 3.48s). Anthropometric features also increased between moments of assessment, and remaining biomechanical variables (kinematic, efficiency, hydrodynamic and mechanical power) also increased between M1 and M7, in all clusters. Cluster 1 increased their swimmer's membership between M1 and M7 (4 to 11), cluster 2 decreased (12 to 5), and cluster 3 maintained (14). Conclusion: It can be concluded that the cluster formation depends on different determinant factors during two competitive seasons, and young swimmers are prone to change from one cluster to another over this period of time.		[Morais, Jorge E.; Forte, Pedro; Barbosa, Tiago M.] Polytech Inst Braganca, Braganca, Portugal; [Morais, Jorge E.; Forte, Pedro; Silva, Antonio J.; Barbosa, Tiago M.; Marinho, Daniel A.] Res Ctr Sports Hlth & Human Dev CIDESD, Porto, Portugal; [Forte, Pedro] Higher Inst Educ Sci Douro, Vila Real, Portugal; [Silva, Antonio J.] Univ Tras Os Montes & Alto Douro, Vila Real, Portugal; [Marinho, Daniel A.] Univ Beira Interior, Covilha, Portugal; [Morais, Jorge E.] Polytech Inst Braganca, Dept Sport Sci, Campus Sta Apolonia,Apartado 1101, P-5301856 Braganca, Portugal								14							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000518822900001	32	Article; Article		
J	Campos, Fabio A. D.; Pellegrinotti, Idico L.; Campos, Leandra C. B.; Dias, Tiago M. R.; Gomez, Miguel-Angel								Relative Age Effect in the Girls' Volleyball U18 World Championship								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				72	1			195	202		10.2478/hukin-2019-0106			MAR 2020	2020	The relative age effect (RAE), within the sporting scope, refers to the possible advantages of participation and performance of athletes born in the first months of the year of selection in relation to others within the same age category. The aim of the present study was to investigate the RAE in girls' volleyball players participating in the U-18 World Championship, analysing the differences between the medal teams and other teams in the tournament, and considering this phenomenon in relation to the continents. Data collection was obtained from the website of the International Volleyball Federation with a sample made of 1654 youth players in the last six world championships (2007, 2009, 2011, 2013, 2015 and 2017). A greater representation of athletes born in the first months of the year of all the world championships was observed. In the comparison among the continents, it was observed that in Africa, there was a more equal distribution of quartiles compared to America, Asia and Europe. It should be noted that there was a higher percentage of medalist athletes born at the beginning of the year in comparison to the countries that placed in the last three positions of the championship. Therefore, in U-18 female volleyball, there is an advantage to have the closest birth age at the beginning of the competitive biennium.		[Campos, Fabio A. D.; Campos, Leandra C. B.] Fed Inst Educ Sci & Technol Goiano, BR-76300000 Ceres, Brazil; [Pellegrinotti, Idico L.; Campos, Leandra C. B.] Univ Metodista Piracicaba, Piracicaba, Brazil; [Dias, Tiago M. R.] Sesi Volleyball Club, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Gomez, Miguel-Angel] Univ Politecn Madrid, Madrid, Spain; [Campos, Fabio A. D.] Fed Inst Educ Sci & Technol Goiano, BR-76300000 Ceres, Brazil								14							Sport Sciences	WOS:000523653700018	32	Article; Article		
J	Michalowska-Sawczyn, Monika; Lachowicz, Milena; Grzywacz, Anna; Suchanecka, Aleksandra; Chmielowiec, Jolanta; Chmielowiec, Krzysztof; Chycki, Jakub; Trybek, Grzegorz; Zmijewski, Piotr; Cieszczyk, Pawel								Analysis of Polymorphic Variants of the Dopamine Transporter (DAT1) Gene Polymorphism and Personality Traits Among Athletes								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				72	1			79	89		10.2478/hukin-2019-0119			MAR 2020	2020	Personality traits, especially in sport are modulatory factors of athletes' behavior - his/ her conscientiousness, the will to achieve an aim, perseverance and motivation of activity. Not only are biological predispositions related to anatomical or biochemical traits of success, but they are also largely determined by personality traits that result from genetic factors. In our research we joined tests of athlete's personality in correlation with genotypes of the dopamine transporter (DAT1) gene polymorphism. The selection of this polymorphism was based on previous reports connecting the influence of dopamine with motivation and numerous arguments supporting its correlation with human behavior. We observed significant differences among polymorphisms DAT 9/9, 9/10, 10/10 in terms of proportion of particular genotypes between athletes and the control group. We also found significant differences in the NEO FFI sten scale for conscientiousness. We noticed that anxiety was related with genotypic variants of DAT1, specifically the 9/10 VNTR variant, which conditioned lower levels of anxiety in the group of tested athletes. By contrast, the lower sten value of agreeability was statistically significant for the group of athletes that were carriers of the 10/10 VNTR genotype. Heterozygous 9/10 VNTR among athletes showed lower levels of anxiety in comparison with the control group, whereas agreeability determined using the NEO FFI scale represented a lower value among athletes that had the 10/10 polymorphism. We may thus conclude that the presence of polymorphic variants of the dopamine transporter gene corresponds to athletes' personality traits.		[Michalowska-Sawczyn, Monika; Lachowicz, Milena; Cieszczyk, Pawel] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, Fac Phys Culture, Gdansk, Poland; [Grzywacz, Anna; Suchanecka, Aleksandra] Pomeranian Med Univ, Independent Lab Hlth Promot, Szczecin, Poland; [Chmielowiec, Jolanta; Chmielowiec, Krzysztof] Univ Zielona Gora, Coll Med, Dept Hyg & Epidemiol, Zielona Gora, Poland; [Chycki, Jakub] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Inst Sport Sci, Katowice, Poland; [Trybek, Grzegorz] Pomeranian Med Univ, Dept Oral Surg, Szczecin, Poland; [Zmijewski, Piotr] Jozef Pilsudski Univ Phys Educ Warsaw, Fac Phys Educ, Warsaw, Poland; [Cieszczyk, Pawel] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, Ul Kazimierza Gorskiego 1, PL-80336 Gdansk, Poland								6							Sport Sciences	WOS:000523653700008	35	Article; Article		
J	Garcia-Pinillos, Felipe; Jerez-Mayorga, Daniel; Latorre-Roman, Pedro A.; Ramirez-Campillo, Rodrigo; Sanz-Lopez, Fernando; Roche-Seruendo, Luis E.								How do Amateur Endurance Runners Alter Spatiotemporal Parameters and Step Variability as Running Velocity Increases? A Sex Comparison								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				72	1			39	49		10.2478/hukin-2019-0098			MAR 2020	2020	This study aimed to analyse the effects of running velocity on spatiotemporal parameters and step variability in amateur endurance runners, according to sex. A group of 51 males and 46 females performed an incremental running test on a treadmill (10-16 km/h). Spatiotemporal parameters (contact and flight time, step length, step frequency and step angle [CT, FT, SL, SF, SA]) and step variability, in terms of within-participant standard deviation (SD), were recorded through the OptoGait System. The ANOVA showed significant differences in the magnitude of the spatiotemporal parameters as running velocity increased (p < 0.001). It also revealed significant differences in step variability (p < 0.005) over the entire running protocol. Between-sex differences in CT, SL, SL-normalized and SF (p < 0.05, ES = 0.4-0.8) were found. Differences were also found in step variability at high velocities (15-16 km/h), with males showing a greater SD than females. In conclusion, increasing running velocity makes CT shorter, FT and SL longer, and SF and SA greater in amateur endurance runners, changing step variability, regardless of sex. Additionally, some between-sex differences were found in spatiotemporal parameters and step variability.		[Garcia-Pinillos, Felipe] Univ La Frontera, Dept Phys Educ Sports & Recreat, Calle Uruguay, Temuco 1980, Chile; [Jerez-Mayorga, Daniel] Univ Andres Bello, Fac Rehabil Sci, Santiago, Chile; [Latorre-Roman, Pedro A.] Univ Jaen, Dept Corporal Express, Jaen, Spain; [Ramirez-Campillo, Rodrigo] Univ Lagos, Dept Phys Act Sci, Lab Human Performance, Qual Life & Wellness Res Grp, Osorno, Chile; [Sanz-Lopez, Fernando] Aspetar Orthopaed & Sports Med Hosp, Phys Therapy Dept, Doha, Qatar; [Roche-Seruendo, Luis E.] Univ San Jorge, Dept Physiotherapy, Zaragoza, Spain; [Garcia-Pinillos, Felipe] Univ La Frontera, Dept Phys Educ Sports & Recreat, Calle Uruguay, Temuco 1980, Chile								19							Sport Sciences	WOS:000523653700004	32	Article; Article		
J	Lago-Fuentes, Carlos; Rey, Ezequiel; Padron-Cabo, Alexis; Prieto-Troncoso, Javier; Garcia-Nunez, Javier								The Relative Age Effect in Professional Futsal Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				72	1			173	183		10.2478/hukin-2019-0105			MAR 2020	2020	The objective of this study was to verify the occurrence and effect size of relative age effect in professional futsal players, by observing how its presence and impact change according to the season, team level and player position. The sample was composed of 1873 professional futsal players who played in the First Division of the Spanish National Futsal League between seasons 2006-2007 and 2014-2015. The players' birthdates were divided into quarters (Q1, Q2, Q3 and Q4). A relative age effect reversal was observed in the professional futsal players for the nine analyzed seasons. A relative age reversal effect was observed in high and medium level teams. Finally, a relative age effect reversal was also found for the goalkeeper and pivot positions. The results could suggest that players that initially experienced maturity disadvantages in major sports, can have a second chance to emerge in professional minor sports (i.e. futsal vs. soccer). However, the underlying mechanisms why a reversal occurs are still unclear, and more studies focusing on the mediators of the effect are needed.		[Lago-Fuentes, Carlos; Rey, Ezequiel; Padron-Cabo, Alexis; Prieto-Troncoso, Javier] Univ Vigo, Fac Educ & Sports Sci, Campus A Xunqueira S-N, Pontevedra 36005, Spain; [Lago-Fuentes, Carlos] European Atlantic Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, Santander, Spain; [Garcia-Nunez, Javier] Univ Vigo, Fac Educ, Orense, Spain; [Lago-Fuentes, Carlos] Univ Vigo, Fac Educ & Sports Sci, Campus A Xunqueira S-N, Pontevedra 36005, Spain								21							Sport Sciences	WOS:000523653700016	38	Article; Article		
J	Dai, Boyi; Layer, Jacob S.; Hinshaw, Taylour J.; Cook, Ross F.; Dufek, Janet S.								Kinematic Analyses of Parkour Landings From as High as 2.7 Meters								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				72	1			15	28		10.2478/hukin-2019-0123			MAR 2020	2020	Developing effective landing strategies has implications for both injury prevention and performance training. The purpose was to quantify the kinematics of Parkour practitioners' landings from three heights utilizing four techniques. Seventeen male and three female Parkour practitioners landed from 0.9, 1.8, and 2.7 m utilizing the squat, forward, roll, and stiff landing techniques when three-dimensional kinematics were collected. The stiff landing demonstrated the shortest landing time, and the roll landing showed the longest landing time for 1.8 and 2.7 m. Roll landings demonstrated the greatest forward velocities at initial contact and at the end of the landing. Stiff landings showed the greatest changes in vertical velocity during the early landing, while roll landings showed the least changes for 0.9 and 1.8 m. Both roll and stiff landings generally resulted in decreased changes in horizontal velocity during the early landing compared to squat and forward landings. The four landing techniques also demonstrated different lower extremity joint angles. Stiff landings may increase injury risk because of the quick decrease of vertical velocities. Roll landings allow individuals to decrease vertical and horizontal velocities over a longer time, which is likely to decrease the peak loading imposed on the lower extremities.		[Dai, Boyi; Layer, Jacob S.; Hinshaw, Taylour J.; Cook, Ross F.] Univ Wyoming, Div Kinesiol & Hlth, Laramie, WY 82071 USA; [Dufek, Janet S.] Univ Nevada, Dept Kinesiol & Nutr Sci, Las Vegas, NV 89154 USA; [Dai, Boyi] Univ Wyoming, Div Kinesiol & Hlth, Laramie, WY 82071 USA								8							Sport Sciences	WOS:000523653700002	26	Article; Article		
J	Zmijewski, Piotr; Lipinska, Patrycja; Czajkowska, Anna; Mroz, Anna; Kapuscinski, Pawel; Mazurek, Krzysztof								Acute Effects of a Static vs. a Dynamic Stretching Warm-up on Repeated-Sprint Performance in Female Handball Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				72	1			161	172		10.2478/hukin-2019-0043			MAR 2020	2020	This randomized cross-over study examined the effects of typical static and dynamic stretching warm-up protocols on repeated-sprint performance. Thirteen young female handball players performed a 5 min aerobic warm-up followed by one of three stretching protocols for the lower limbs: (1) static stretching, (2) dynamic-ballistic stretching, and (3) no stretching before performing five all-out sprints on a cycle ergometer. Each protocol was performed on a different occasion, separated by 2-3 days. Range of movement (ROM) was also measured before and after the warm-up protocols with a sit-and-reach test. Fixed and random effects of each stretching protocol on repeated sprint performance were estimated with mixed linear modeling and data were evaluated via standardization and magnitude-based inferences. In comparison to no stretching, there were small increases in ROM after dynamic stretching (12.7%, +/- 0.7%; mean, +/- 90% confidence limits) and static stretching (19.2%, +/- 0.9%). There were small increases in the average power across all sprints with dynamic stretching relative to static stretching (3.3%, +/- 2.4%) and no stretching (3.0%, +/- 2.4%) and trivial to small increases in the average power in the 1st and 5th trials with dynamic stretching compared to static stretching (3.9%, +/- 2.6%; 2.6%, +/- 2.6%, respectively) and no stretching (2.0%, +/- 2.7%; 4.1%, +/- 2.8%, respectively). There were also trivial and small decreases in power across all sprints with static relative to dynamic stretching (-1.3%, +/- 2.8%) and no stretching (-3.5%, +/- 2.9%). Dynamic stretching improved repeated-sprint performance to a greater extent than static stretching and no stretching.		[Zmijewski, Piotr; Czajkowska, Anna; Mroz, Anna; Kapuscinski, Pawel; Mazurek, Krzysztof] Jozef Pilsudski Univ Phys Educ Warsaw, Warsaw, Poland; [Lipinska, Patrycja] Kazimierz Wielki Univ, Inst Phys Educ, Bydgoszcz, Poland; [Zmijewski, Piotr] Jozef Pilsudski Acad Phys Educ Warsaw, Fac Phys Educ, Ul Marymoncka 34, PL-00968 Warsaw, Poland								22							Sport Sciences	WOS:000523653700015	41	Article; Article		
J	AbuMoh'd, Mohammad Fayiz; Matalqah, Laila; Al-Abdulla, Zainalabidden								Effects of Oral Branched-Chain Amino Acids (BCAAs) Intake on Muscular and Central Fatigue During an Incremental Exercise								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				72	1			69	78		10.2478/hukin-2019-0099			MAR 2020	2020	The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of oral branched-chain amino acids (BCAAs) intake on muscular (creatine kinase and myoglobin) and central (serotonin) fatigue during an incremental exercise protocol and to determine the time to exhaustion. Sixteen male long-distance runners (25.7 +/- 2.0 yrs) performed two trials, 14 days apart. Using a double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomised crossover design, participants ingested either 20 g of BCAAs (BCAA trial) or a placebo 1 hour prior to performing an incremental exercise session on a treadmill. The starting speed was 8 km/h and this was increased by 1 km/h every 5 minutes until volitional exhaustion. Blood analysis indicated that plasma levels of serotonin were lower in the BCAA trial (259.3 +/- 13.5 ng/ml) than the placebo trial (289.1 +/- 14.5 ng/ml) (p < 0.05). There was a similar pattern of results for free fatty acid (p < 0.05). The creatine kinase level was higher in the BCAA trial (346.1 +/- 33.7 U/L) than the placebo trial (307.3 +/- 30.2 U/L). No significant difference between trials was observed regarding the level of myoglobin (p = 0.139). Time to exhaustion was longer in the BCAA trial (50.4 +/- 2.3 min) than the placebo trial (46.6 +/- 3.2 min). In conclusion, oral intake of 20 g of BCAAs 1 hour prior to an incremental treadmill exercise session increased time to exhaustion, probably due to the reduction in serotonin concentration. As myoglobin levels were within the normal range in both trials, we conclude that the participants did not reach muscular fatigue.		[AbuMoh'd, Mohammad Fayiz] Yarmouk Univ, Fac Phys Educ, Dept Movement Sports Sci, Shafiq Irshidat St, Irbid, Jordan; [Matalqah, Laila] Yarmouk Univ, Fac Med, Dept Basic Med Sci, Irbid, Jordan; [Al-Abdulla, Zainalabidden] Yarmouk Univ, Fac Med, Dept Clin Sci, Irbid, Jordan; [AbuMoh'd, Mohammad Fayiz] Yarmouk Univ, Fac Phys Educ, Dept Movement Sports Sci, Shafiq Irshidat St, Irbid, Jordan								31							Sport Sciences	WOS:000523653700007	34	Article; Article		
J	Ortega-Becerra, Manuel; Belloso-Vergara, Alexis; Pareja-Blanco, Fernando								Physical and Physiological Demands During Handball Matches in Male Adolescent Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				72	1			253	263		10.2478/hukin-2019-0111			MAR 2020	2020	This study aimed to describe the physical and physiological demands of adolescent handball players and compare movement analysis and exercise intensities between the first and second halves and between the different periods of the match. Fourteen adolescent handball players (age 15.7 +/- 0.8 years, body mass: 65.6 +/- 3.4 kg, body height: 169.5 +/- 3.9 cm), played two friendly matches, in which no substitutions were made. The analysis was carried out with a Global Positioning System technology. The following physical variables were analyzed: Total distance covered (TD); distance covered at faster velocities than 18 km.h(-1) (TDC>18km.h(-1)); number of accelerations (Accel) and decelerations (Decel); number of accelerations and decelerations higher than 2.78 m.s(-2) (Accel>2.78 m.s(-2) and Decel>2.78 m.s(-2)); number of sprints (Sprints); accelerations interspersed with a maximum of 30 s between them (RAS30s) and as a physiological variable the heart rate (HR) was examined. Significant differences (p < 0.01 - p < 0.001) between the first and the second half in all variables mentioned were observed, except in Accel>2.78 m.s(-2) and Decel>2.78 m.s(-2). This trend was also observed when comparing performance between the different 10-min periods. The 5th period (period 4050 min) was the one that showed differences with respect to the previous ones. Adolescent handball players showed lower levels of exercise intensity, assessed by both time-motion and HR data, in the second half of matches, especially in the middle of this period.		[Ortega-Becerra, Manuel; Pareja-Blanco, Fernando] Pablo de Olavide Univ, Fac Sports Sci, Phys Performance & Athlet Res Ctr, Seville, Spain; [Belloso-Vergara, Alexis] Pablo de Olavide Univ, Fac Sports Sci, Seville, Spain; [Ortega-Becerra, Manuel] Pablo de Olavide Univ, Phys Performance & Athlet Res Ctr, Fac Sport, Spain Ctra Utrera,Km 1, Seville 41013, Spain								37							Sport Sciences	WOS:000523653700024	31	Article; Article		
J	Joseph, Lori; Reilly, Josh; Sweezey, Kristine; Waugh, Robyn; Carlson, Lara A.; Lawrence, Michael A.								Activity of Trunk and Lower Extremity Musculature: Comparison Between Parallel Back Squats and Belt Squats								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				72	1			223	228		10.2478/hukin-2019-0126			MAR 2020	2020	The back squat is widely used in strength training programs. Alternatively, the belt squat has been gaining popularity since it loads the weight on the hips, as opposed to the shoulders and spine. The purpose of this study was to determine whether using a belt squat would result in less lumbar extensor activation while providing similar excitation of other prime mover and stabilizer musculature. Ten participants (9 males, 1 female; age 29.3 +/- 4.9 years; body mass 96.2 +/- 17.8 kg) who regularly trained both belt squats and back squats performed three sets of 5 repetitions with 100% bodyweight for each exercise. Peak and integrated muscle activity was calculated and normalized to a maximum voluntary isometric contraction. A one-way ANOVA (p < 0.05) was used to compare conditions. Belt squatting decreased lumbar erector impulse (45.4%) and peak (52.0%) activation as compared to the back squat. Belt squatting did not alter activation of the lower extremities except for a decrease in the gluteus maximus (35.2% impulse and 32.1% peak), gluteus medius (54.1% impulse and 55.2% peak). Furthermore, belt squatting reduced activation of the rectus abdominus (44.3% impulse; 31.1% peak), and external obliques (45.8% impulse; 53.7% peak) as compared to back squatting. Our results suggest belt squatting provides similar muscular demands for the quadriceps, hamstrings, and plantar flexors, but is less demanding of trunk stabilizers, and gluteual muscles. Belt squats may be a suitable alternative to back squats in order to avoid stressing low back or trunk musculature.		[Joseph, Lori; Reilly, Josh; Sweezey, Kristine; Waugh, Robyn; Lawrence, Michael A.] Univ New England, Dept Phys Therapy, Portland, ME 04103 USA; [Carlson, Lara A.] Carlson Lab, Portland, ME USA; [Lawrence, Michael A.] Univ New England, 716 Stevens Ave, Portland, ME 04103 USA								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:000523653700021	12	Article; Article		
J	Prins, Philip J.; Koutnik, Andrew P.; D'Agostino, Dominic P.; Rogers, Christopher Q.; Seibert, Jacob F.; Breckenridge, Jillian A.; Jackson, Daniel S.; Ryan, Edward J.; Buxton, Jeffrey D.; Ault, Dana L.								Effects of an Exogenous Ketone Supplement on Five-Kilometer Running Performance								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				72	1			115	127		10.2478/hukin-2019-0114			MAR 2020	2020	Numerous oral ketone supplements are marketed with the claim that they will rapidly induce ketosis and improve exercise performance. The purpose of this study was to assess exercise performance time and related physiological, metabolic and perceptual responses of recreational endurance runners after ingestion of a commercially available oral ketone supplement. Recreational endurance runners (n = 10; age: 20.8 +/- 1.0 years; body mass: 68.9 +/- 5.6 kg; height: 175.6 +/- 4.9 cm) participated in a double-blind, crossover, repeated-measures study where they were randomized to 300 mg.kg-1 body weight of an oral beta-hydroxybutyrate-salt + Medium Chain Triglyceride (beta HBsalt+MCT) ketone supplement or a flavor matched placebo (PLA) 60 min prior to performing a 5-km running time trial (5KTT) on a treadmill. Time, HR, RPE, affect, RER, VO2, VCO2, and VE were measured during the 5-km run. The Session RPE and affect (Feeling Scale) were obtained post-5KTT. Plasma glucose, lactate and ketones were measured at baseline, 60-min post-supplement, and immediately post-5KTT. Plasma R-beta HB (endogenous isomer) was elevated from baseline and throughout the entire protocol under the beta HB-salt+MCT condition (p < 0.05). No significant difference (-58.3 +/- 100.40 s; 95% CI: -130.12 - 13.52; p = 0.100) was observed between the beta HB-salt+MCT supplement (1430.0 +/- 187.7 s) and the PLA (1488.3 +/- 243.8 s) in time to complete the 5KTT. No other differences (p > 0.05) were noted in any of the other physiological, metabolic or perceptual measures.		[Prins, Philip J.; Seibert, Jacob F.; Breckenridge, Jillian A.; Jackson, Daniel S.; Buxton, Jeffrey D.; Ault, Dana L.] Grove City Coll, Dept Exercise Sci, 100 Campus Dr, Grove City, PA 16127 USA; [Koutnik, Andrew P.; D'Agostino, Dominic P.; Rogers, Christopher Q.] Univ S Florida, Dept Mol Pharmacol & Physiol, Tampa, FL 33620 USA; [Ryan, Edward J.] Chatham Univ, Dept Exercise Sci, Pittsburgh, PA 15232 USA; [Prins, Philip J.] Grove City Coll, Dept Exercise Sci, 100 Campus Dr, Grove City, PA 16127 USA								16							Sport Sciences	WOS:000523653700011	41	Article; Article		
J	Zhao, Yangqing; Zhang, Hui								Eigenvalues make the difference - A network analysis of the Chinese Super League								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				15	2			184	194	1747954120908822	10.1177/1747954120908822			APR 2020	2020	To evaluate collective (macro) performance data in the Chinese Super League, social network analyses and graph theory were implemented in team sports performance analyses. For each team, we constructed a weighted and directed network in which nodes corresponded to players and arrows to passes. A total of 1200 matches during the 2014-2018 seasons were analysed. The results showed significant differences in general network measures among team competitive levels, match locations and match outcomes. Successful teams and home teams had significantly higher link, diameter, density and cluster coefficient values than did the unsuccessful teams or visiting teams; however, the winning teams had significantly lower density and cluster coefficient 2 values than did the losing teams. This study suggested that successful teams or teams with advantages (home, winner) have a high level of total passes and eigenvalues. This is the first report in which eigenvalues (the degree of a team's distribution of the ball during the match) were able to capture changes in dynamics between different teams. There were positive correlations between all the network variables and the total shots and no correlations between all the network variables and goals.		[Zhao, Yangqing; Zhang, Hui] Zhejiang Univ, Coll Educ, Dept Sport Sci, Hangzhou, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Hui] Zhejiang Univ, Coll Educ, Dept Sport Sci, Hangzhou, Peoples R China								11							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000517723800001	32	Article; Article		
J	Heishman, Aaron D.; Daub, Bryce D.; Miller, Ryan M.; Freitas, Eduardo D. S.; Bemben, Michael G.								Monitoring External Training Loads and Neuromuscular Performance for Division I Basketball Players over the Preseason								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				19	1			204	212					MAR 2020	2020	Limited research has paralleled concomitant changes in external training load (eTL) and countermovement jump (CMJ) performance. Therefore, this investigation characterized eTL and CMJ performance changes across preseason training in Division 1 male collegiate basketball athletes, while examining the influence of position (Guard vs. Forward/Center) and scholarship status (Scholarship = S vs. Walk-on = WO). During 22 practices, eTL was monitored in 14 male athletes, with weekly CMJs performed to quantify neuromuscular performance (Jump Height [JH], Flight Time:Contraction Time [FT:CT], Reactive Strength Index Modified [RSIMod]). PlayerLoad per minute was significantly higher during W1 and W2 (5.4 +/- 1.3au and 5.3 +/- 1.2au, respectively; p < 0.05) compared to subsequent weeks, but no additional differences in eTL parameters across time were observed. Scholarship athletes displayed greater PlayerLoad (S = 777.1 +/- 35.6, WO = 530.1 +/- 56.20; Inertial Movement Analysis (IMA) IMA_High (S = 70.9 +/- 15.2, WO = 41.3 +/- 15.2); IMA_Medium (S = 159.9 +/- 30.7, WO = 92.7 +/- 30.6); and IMA_Low (S = 700.6 +/- 105.1, WO = 405 +/- 105.0;) (p < 0.05), with no observed differences in eTL by position. Moderate decreases in FT:CT and RSIMod paralleled increased eTL. Significant increases in practice intensity (W1 and W2) did not impact CMJ performance, suggesting athletes could cope with the prescribed training loads. However, moderate perturbations in FT:CT and RSIMod paralleled the weeks with intensified training. Cumulatively, scholarship status appears to influence eTL while player position does not.		[Heishman, Aaron D.; Miller, Ryan M.; Freitas, Eduardo D. S.; Bemben, Michael G.] Univ Oklahoma, Dept Hlth & Exercise Sci, Norman, OK 73019 USA; [Heishman, Aaron D.; Daub, Bryce D.] Univ Oklahoma, Dept Athlet Basketball Strength & Performance, Norman, OK 73019 USA; [Heishman, Aaron D.] Univ Oklahoma, Dept Hlth & Exercise Sci, Norman, OK 73019 USA; [Heishman, Aaron D.] Univ Oklahoma, Dept Athlet Basketball Strength & Performance, Norman, OK 73019 USA								42							Sport Sciences	WOS:000516851900023	35	Article; Article		
J	Colado, Juan C.; Furtado, Guilherme E.; Teixeira, Ana M.; Flandez, Jorge; Naclerio, Fernando								Concurrent and Construct Validation of a New Scale for Rating Perceived Exertion during Elastic Resistance Training in The Elderly								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				19	1			175	186					MAR 2020	2020	The purpose of the study was to examine the concurrent and construct validity of a new perceptual scale to control the exercise intensity using elastic bands (Resistance Intensity Scale for Exercise; RISE) in the elderly. Twenty-six participants underwent two sessions consisting of 4 exercises. The participants performed three sets of 15 repetitions per exercise of either low, medium, or high intensity. The criterion variables were heart rate and applied force (mean and peak). Following the final repetition of each set, active muscle (AM) and overall body (OB) ratings of perceived exertion (RPE) were collected from RISE and the OMNI-Resistance Exercise Scale of perceived exertion with elastic bands (OMNI-RES EB). Construct validity was established by correlating the perceptual score obtained from both scales, RISE and OMNI-RES EB. Significant (p <= 0.05) and positive linear relationships between both scales were found (RPE-AM R-2 = 0.90; RPE-OB R-2 = 0.77). Significant differences in heart rate, applied force, and RISE scores were observed between the sets of the three intensities. For all 4 analyzed exercises, high-intensity sets elicited higher heart rate, applied force, and perceptual scores compared with the medium- and low-intensity sets. Furthermore, the medium-intensity sets produced higher perceptual, physiologic, and performance responses than the low-intensity sets. Intersession reliability was 0.88 for heart rate, 0.94 and 0.95 for applied force, 0.88 for the RPE-AM, and 0.80 for the RPE-OB. Conclusion: The RISE scale can be considered a valid method for assessing the perceived exertion during resistance exercises performed with elastic bands in the elderly.		[Colado, Juan C.] Univ Valencia, Res Grp Prevent & Hlth Exercise & Sport, Res Unit Sport & Hlth, Valencia, Spain; [Furtado, Guilherme E.; Teixeira, Ana M.] Univ Coimbra, Fac Sport Sci & Phys Educ, Res Unit Sport & Phys Act, Coimbra, Portugal; [Flandez, Jorge] Austral Univ Valdivia, Fac Pedag Phys Educ Sports & Recreat, Valdivia, Chile; [Naclerio, Fernando] Univ Greenwich, Dept Life & Sport Sci, Greenwich, England; [Colado, Juan C.] Univ Valencia, Res Grp Prevent & Hlth Exercise & Sport, Res Unit Sport & Hlth, Valencia, Spain								38							Sport Sciences	WOS:000516851900020	74	Article; Article		
J	Konrad, Andreas; Tilp, Markus								The Time Course of Muscle-Tendon Unit Function and Structure Following Three Minutes of Static Stretching								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				19	1			52	58					MAR 2020	2020	While the time course of muscle-tendon unit (MTU) function and structure following short (1 min) and long (5 min) durations of static stretching has already been investigated, less is known about medium stretch durations. Therefore, the purpose of this study was to investigate the time course of these parameters following 3 min of static stretching of the plantar flexor muscles. Fourteen healthy volunteers were tested on two separate days in a random order with two different rest times (0 min, 5 min) after 3 x 60 s of stretching. During each test, the dorsiflexion range of motion (RoM), passive resistive torque (PRT), and maximum voluntary contraction (MVC) were measured with a dynamometer. Ultrasonography of the gastrocnemius medialis (GM) muscle-tendon junction displacement and motion capture allowed us to determine the length changes in the tendon and muscle, respectively, and hence to calculate their stiffness. We observed an increase in RoM and a decrease in PRT and muscle-tendon stiffness at 0 min and 5 min post-stretching. This can be attributed to a decrease in muscle stiffness, as a decrease in PRT and muscle stiffness was observed up to 5 min after the stretching. No changes were detected in MVC torque and tendon stiffness. Static stretching for 3 x 60 s changes the muscle-tendon functions (RoM, PRT) for at least 5 min. These changes are related to mechano-morphological changes of the muscle, but not the tendon structure.		[Konrad, Andreas; Tilp, Markus] Graz Univ, Inst Sport Sci, Mozartgasse 14, A-8010 Graz, Austria; [Konrad, Andreas] Graz Univ, Inst Sport Sci, Mozartgasse 14, A-8010 Graz, Austria								31							Sport Sciences	WOS:000516851900006	30	Article; Article		
J	Bankosz, Ziemowit; Winiarski, Slawomir								Kinematic Parameters of Topspin Forehand in Table Tennis and Their Inter- and Intra-Individual Variability								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				19	1			138	148					MAR 2020	2020	The aims of the research were to (1) determine the values of kinematic parameters in two modifications of the topspin forehand stroke as well as the differences between them and (2) assess the inter-individual and intra-individual variability of the values. Two modifications of a topspin forehand were evaluated: topspin after a topspin ball (TF1) and topspin after a backspin ball (TF2). The MyoMotion Noraxon analysis system was used to record the kinematic data. A piezo-electric sensor was used to identify the moment when the ball made contact with the racket. The coefficient of variation determined the variability of the kinematic parameters. Most of the joint angles in four identified events reflected how the individual segments of a player's body should move. The difference in acceleration at the moment of contact between the two types of the topspin forehand was significant, but the variability of the acceleration values was small. Large variability in the angular parameters was found, and this result was considered a manifestation of different coordination patterns in the stroke movements. It is possible that even though the players used different methods of performing the movement, they obtained similar values for some parameters (e.g., acceleration), which should be taken into account by coaches. There were small differences in many parameters within individual players, which can indicate that a player performs tasks in a similar way each time. However, there was high variability in some angular parameters, indicating that the repetitions of particular strokes were not performed in an identical way. The reasons for this phenomenon include movement functionality and functional variability.		[Bankosz, Ziemowit] Univ Sch Phys Educ Wroclaw, Fac Sports, Dept Sport Didact, Wroclaw, Poland; [Winiarski, Slawomir] Univ Sch Phys Educ Wroclaw, Fac Phys Educ, Dept Biomech, Wroclaw, Poland; [Bankosz, Ziemowit] Univ Sch Phys Educ Wroclaw, Al Paderewskiego 35, PL-51612 Wroclaw, Poland								39							Sport Sciences	WOS:000516851900016	39	Article; Article		
J	Yamaguchi, Shota; Suzuki, Katsuhiko; Inami, Takayuki; Kanda, Kazue; Hanye, Zhao; Okada, Junichi								Changes in Urinary Titin N-terminal Fragment Concentration after Concentric and Eccentric Exercise								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				19	1			121	129					MAR 2020	2020	We aimed to compare the urinary titin N-terminal fragment (UTF) concentration after concentric and eccentric exercise and to clarify the specific response of UTF to exercise-induced muscle damage (EIMD). Nine healthy young men performed 30 concentric elbow flexion exercises with maximum effort, rested for at least eight weeks, and performed eccentric exercises at the same workload using the same arm. Changes in the maximal voluntary isometric contraction (MVIC), muscle soreness (SOR), range of motion (ROM), serum creatine kinase (CK) activity, and UTF concentrations were recorded before and after for six consecutive days after exercise. There was no significant difference in workload during exercise between the two exercise types. However, serum CK activity increased after eccentric exercise (p < 0.05). Additionally, MVIC, SOR, ROM, and UTF concentration were significantly higher after eccentric exercise than after concentric exercise (p < 0.05). Although workload was the same, the UTF concentration greatly increased after eccentric exercise. Based on these results, we suggest that UTF can be a non-invasive and highly specific biomarker of EIMD.		[Yamaguchi, Shota; Hanye, Zhao] Waseda Univ, Grad Sch Sport Sci, Saitama, Japan; [Suzuki, Katsuhiko; Okada, Junichi] Waseda Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Saitama, Japan; [Inami, Takayuki] Keio Univ, Inst Phys Educ, Yokohama, Kanagawa, Japan; [Kanda, Kazue] Waseda Univ, Inst Nanosci & Nanotechnol, Shinjuku Ku, Tokyo, Japan; [Yamaguchi, Shota] Waseda Univ, Grad Sch Sport Sci, Saitama, Japan								18							Sport Sciences	WOS:000516851900014	45	Article; Article		
J	Zuber, Claudia; Schmid, Michael J.; Conzelmann, Achim								Achievement-Motivated Behavior in Individual Sports: Evidence for the Construct and Criterion Validity of the AMBIS-I Coach-Rating Scale								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				19	1			10	19					MAR 2020	2020	The coach-rating scale for Achievement-Motivated Behavior in Individual Sports (AMBIS-I) was constructed to measure achievement motivation, not from athletes' own views but from coaches' perspectives. The tool was already checked for reliability as well as content, factorial, and concurrent criterion validity (Zuber and Conzelmann, 2019). To further establish construct and criterion validity, two different samples were involved. Sample 1 included 67 experienced coaches rating their 278 athletes on the three AMBIS-I dimensions proactivity, ambition and commitment. In sample 2, 157 athletes completed self-report questionnaires measuring motivational and volitional concepts. Congruent and discriminant construct validity were assessed using the QCV-procedure (Westen and Rosenthal, 2003) by comparing experts' predicted and empirically observed correlations between the coaches' ratings on the AMBIS-I with the self-ratings of validated instruments. Consistent with theoretical expectations, achievement goal orientations, self-determination and self-optimization show significant positive relationships to the AMBIS-I scales, the negatively formulated volitional concepts, negative ones. As indicated by the 0.87 <= r(alerting-CV) <= 0.95, the general patterns of the expert's predictions triangulate consistently with the observed correlations. The findings concerning absolute agreement were mixed. Even though the ICCs suggest sufficient to good consistency, the values of r(contrast-CV) are considerably lower. To indicate criterion validity, AMBIS-I display medium to large correlations with the actual performance level estimated by the coaches and small to medium correlations with the assigned potential for subsequent success one year later. In summary, we found solid indications, that AMBIS-I is a valid measure of achievement-motivated behavior in individual sports from coaches' perspective.		[Zuber, Claudia; Schmid, Michael J.; Conzelmann, Achim] Univ Bern, Inst Sport Sci, Bremgartenstr 145, CH-3012 Bern, Switzerland; [Zuber, Claudia] Univ Bern, Inst Sport Sci, Bremgartenstr 145, CH-3012 Bern, Switzerland								6							Sport Sciences	WOS:000516851900002	57	Article; Article		
J	Szczepan, Stefan; Michalik, Kamil; Borkowski, Jacek; Zaton, Krystyna								Effects of Swimming with Added Respiratory Dead Space on Cardiorespiratory Fitness and Lipid Metabolism								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				19	1			95	101					MAR 2020	2020	The aim of this study was to investigate the circulatory, respiratory, and metabolic effects of induced hypercapnia via added respiratory dead space (ARDS) during moderate-intensity swimming in recreational swimmers. A mixed-sex sample of 22 individuals was divided into homogeneous experimental (E) and control (C) groups controlled for maximal oxygen uptake (VO(2)max). The intervention involved 50 min of front crawl swimming performed at 60% VO(2)max twice weekly for 6 consecutive weeks. ARDS was induced via tube breathing (1000 ml) in group E. An incremental exercise test was administered pre- and post-intervention to assess cardiorespiratory fitness (CRF) by measuring VO(2)max, carbon dioxide volume, respiratory minute ventilation, respiratory exchange ratio (RER), and heart rate at 50, 100, 150, 200 W and at maximal workload. Body mass index (BMI), fat mass (FM), and fat-free mass (FFM) were also measured. The mean difference in glycerol concentration (Delta GLY) was assessed after the first and last swimming session. No significant between-group differences were observed at post-intervention. No within-group differences were observed at post-intervention except for RER which increased in group E at maximal workload. A 6-week swimming intervention with ARDS did not enhance CRF. The RER increase in group E is not indicative of a substrate shift towards increased lipid utilization. No change in Delta GLY is evident of a lack of enhanced triglyceride hydrolyzation that was also confirmed by similar pre- and post-intervention BMI, FM, and FMM.		[Szczepan, Stefan; Zaton, Krystyna] Univ Sch Phys Educ Wroclaw, Dept Swimming, Wroclaw, Poland; [Michalik, Kamil; Borkowski, Jacek] Univ Sch Phys Educ Wroclaw, Dept Physiol & Biochem, Wroclaw, Poland; [Szczepan, Stefan] Univ Sch Phys Educ Wroclaw, Dept Swimming, Wroclaw, Poland								9							Sport Sciences	WOS:000516851900011	43	Article; Article		
J	Martin-Garcia, Andres; Castellano, Julen; Mendez Villanueva, Alberto; Gomez-Diaz, Antonio; Cos, Francesc; Casamichana, David								Physical Demands Ball Possession Games in Relation to the Most Demanding Passages of a Competitive Match								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				19	1			1	9					MAR 2020	2020	The main aim of this study was to determine the physical demands of different small-sided ball possession games (SSBPGs) according to player field position and compare these demands in relation to the most demanding passages of play (MDP) in competitive matches. Global positioning system data were obtained from 25 football players (20.4 +/- 2.1 yrs, 1.78 +/- 0.66 m, 69.7 +/- 6.1 kg) belonging to the reserve squad of a Spanish La Liga Club. Players were categorized according to positional groups; full back (FB), central defender (CD), midfielder (MF), wide midfielder (WMF) and forwards (FW). The variables analyzed were relativized to metres per minute (m.min(-1)): total distance covered (TD), TD at high speed (HSR; >19.8 km.h(-1)), TD at sprint (SPR; >25.2 km.h(-1)), the number of accelerations (ACC) and decelerations (DEC) at high intensity (> +/-3 m.s(-2)), the average metabolic power (AMP; W.kg(-1)) and the high metabolic load distance (HMLD; >25.5 W.kg(-1)). The MDP were analyzed using a rolling average method, where maximal values were calculated for 3 and 5 minutes to compare with SSBPGs using AMP as a criterion variable. The results were obtained from the SSBPGs relative to the MDP (expressed in %) for each player position. FB showed the greatest magnitude of overload in ACC/DEC according to the MDP in the two smaller SSBPGs formats (201-217%), whereas MF showed lower values (105-140%). The load expressed in relation to the MDP can be different depending on the format of the SSBPGs and the characteristics of playing position. These factors should be considered by the coaches when planning training.		[Martin-Garcia, Andres; Gomez-Diaz, Antonio] FC Barcelona Sports Performance Dept, Av Onze Setembre S-N, Barcelona 08970, Ciudad Deportiv, Spain; [Castellano, Julen] Univ Basque Country, UPV EHU, Vitoria, Spain; [Mendez Villanueva, Alberto] Qatar Football Assoc, Doha, Qatar; [Gomez-Diaz, Antonio] Murcia Univ, San Javier Univ Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Murcia, Spain; [Cos, Francesc] Barcelona Univ Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Barcelona, Spain; [Cos, Francesc] New York City Football Club, Performance Dept, New York, NY USA; [Casamichana, David] Atlantic European Univ, Santander, Spain; [Casamichana, David] Real Soc, Sports Performance Dept, San Sebastian, Spain; [Martin-Garcia, Andres] FC Barcelona Sports Performance Dept, Av Onze Setembre S-N, Barcelona 08970, Ciudad Deportiv, Spain								34							Sport Sciences	WOS:000516851900001	41	Article; Article		
J	McDaniel, Brittany B.; Naquin, Mildred R.; Sirikul, Bovorn; Kraemer, Robert R.								Five Weeks of Aquatic-Calisthenic High Intensity Interval Training Improves Cardiorespiratory Fitness and Body Composition in Sedentary Young Adults								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				19	1			187	194					MAR 2020	2020	Aquatic exercise may be better tolerated by sedentary, overweight individuals than land-based exercise. The purpose of the present study was to determine the effects of five weeks of aquatic high-intensity interval training (AHIIT) using standard calisthenic pool exercises, on cardiorespiratory fitness and body composition in sedentary young adults. Eleven college-age participants (9 women, 2 men) completed 15 exercise sessions that included three sessions per week for five weeks. Each session consisted of a five-minute warm-up period, 25 minutes of exercise, and a five-minute cool down. A training progression based upon standard progression principals from a pilot study was implemented. The exercises consisted of 25 exercise intervals lasting 10-30 seconds in duration, utilizing combinations of 8-12 different exercises. Twenty-two standard aquatic upper body, lower body, and full body aerobic exercises, most of which utilized aquatic dumbbells or hand paddles, were performed in an AHIIT protocol during each exercise session. Reductions in body composition (32.6 to 30.6% fat), submaximal (169 to 165 b.min(-1)) and peak heart rate (199 to 192 b.min(-1)), submaximal VO2 (21.7 to 19.3 ml.kg(-1).min(-1) and peak VO2 (30.5 to 31.95 ml.kg(-1).min(-1)) occurred from pre- to post-program. This is the first study to determine the effectiveness of standard aquatic calisthenic exercises used in an AHIIT protocol. Improvements in cardiorespiratory fitness and exercise economy as well as body composition were observed in these sedentary individuals.		[McDaniel, Brittany B.; Naquin, Mildred R.; Sirikul, Bovorn; Kraemer, Robert R.] Southeastern Louisiana Univ, Dept Kinesiol & Hlth Studies, 400 Mane St,POB SLU10845, Hammond, LA 70402 USA; [Kraemer, Robert R.] Southeastern Louisiana Univ, Dept Kinesiol & Hlth Studies, 400 Mane St,POB SLU10845, Hammond, LA 70402 USA								18							Sport Sciences	WOS:000516851900021	59	Article; Article		
J	Chen, Si; Chen, Tao; Kishimoto, Hiro; Yatsugi, Harukaze; Kumagai, Shuzo								Associations of Objectively Measured Patterns of Sedentary Behavior and Physical Activity with Frailty Status Screened by The Frail Scale in Japanese Community-Dwelling Older Adults								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				19	1			166	174					MAR 2020	2020	The objective of this study was to investigate the association between objectively measured patterns of sedentary behavior (SB) and physical activity (PA) and frailty status in Japanese community-dwelling older adults. Data was from 65-75 years older adults from the baseline of Itoshima Frail Study were used. Frailty was assessed using a Japanese version of the FRAIL scale. SB and PA were measured using an accelerometer. Multinomial logistic regression and receiver operating characteristic curve analyses were used to investigate the associations of SB and PA patterns with frailty status. Of the total 819 older adults, half were female (51.8%). The prevalence of robust, pre-frailty and frailty was 60.2%, 27.8%, and 12.0%, respectively. SB variables including total sedentary time, sedentary time in bouts of >= 10 min and >= 30 min, and mean sedentary bout duration were not associated with frailty status. Except LPA and moderate-to-vigorous physical activity (MVPA) in bouts of < 10 min, PA variables including total MVPA time, MVPA in bouts of >= 10 min (bouted MVPA), and steps were significantly associated with lower prevalence of frailty. Area under the curves (AUCs) of total MVPA time, bouted MVPA, and steps were 0.64 (P < 0.001), 0.67 (P < 0.001), and 0.66 (P < 0.001), respectively. The optimal cut-off value of total MVPA time, bouted MVPA, and steps to discriminate between frailty and non-frailty were 43.25 min/day, 9.13 min/day, and 3841 steps/day, respectively. Higher levels of total MVPA time, bouted MVPA, and daily steps were negatively associated with frailty. Lower amounts of bouted MVPA (70 min/week) or steps (4000 steps/day) may be achievable initial targets in older adults for frailty management.		[Chen, Si; Yatsugi, Harukaze] Kyushu Univ, Grad Sch Human Environm Studies, Fukuoka, Japan; [Chen, Tao; Kumagai, Shuzo] Kyushu Univ, Ctr Hlth Sci & Counseling, Fukuoka, Japan; [Kishimoto, Hiro] Kyushu Univ, Fac Arts & Sci, Fukuoka, Japan; [Kumagai, Shuzo] Kyushu Univ, Ctr Hlth Sci & Counseling, Fukuoka, Japan								50							Sport Sciences	WOS:000516851900019	46	Article; Article		
J	Wang, I-Lin; Graham, Ryan B.; Bourdon, Eric J. P.; Chen, Yi-Ming; Gu, Chin-Yi; Wang, Li-, I								Biomechanical Analysis of Running Foot Strike in Shoes of Different Mass								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				19	1			130	137					MAR 2020	2020	Different shoes and strike patterns produce different biomechanical characteristics that can affect injury risk. Running shoes are mainly designed as lightweight, minimal, or traditional cushioned types. Previous research on different shoes utilized shoes of not only different mass but also different shoe structures. However, it is unclear whether biomechanical changes during running in different shoe types with differing mass are the result of the structural design or the mass of the shoe. Thus, the purpose of this study was to investigate the effect of shoes of different mass on running gait biomechanics. Twenty male runners participated in this study. The experimental shoe masses used in this study were 175, 255, 335 and 415 g. The peak vertical ground reaction force increased with shoe mass (p < 0.05), but the strike index, ankle plantarflexion at initial contact, peak moment of the ankle during the stance phase, and initial contact angles of the lower extremity joints did not change. During the pre-activation phase, the integrated EMG data showed that the tibialis anterior muscle was the most activated with the 175 g and 415 g shoes (p < 0.05). During the push-off phase, the semitendinosus, lateral gastrocnemius and soleus muscles displayed higher activation with the heavier shoes (p < 0.05). The center of pressure also moves forward; resulting in mid foot striking. The lightest shoes might increase gastrocnemius muscle fatigue during the braking phase. The heaviest shoes could cause semitendinosus and triceps surae muscle fatigue during the push-off phase. Therefore, runners should consider their lower extremity joints, muscle adaptation and cushioning to remain in their preferred movement path.		[Wang, I-Lin; Chen, Yi-Ming] Jilin Sport Univ, Hlth Technol Coll, Jilin, Jilin, Peoples R China; [Graham, Ryan B.; Bourdon, Eric J. P.] Univ Ottawa, Fac Hlth Sci, Sch Human Kinet, Ottawa, ON, Canada; [Gu, Chin-Yi] Natl Dong Hwa Univ, Dept Curriculum Design & Human Potentials Dev, Hualien, Taiwan; [Wang, Li-, I] Natl Dong Hwa Univ, Dept Phys Educ & Kinesiol, 1,Sec 2,Da Hsueh Rd, Hualien 97401, Taiwan; [Wang, Li-, I] Natl Dong Hwa Univ, Dept Phys Educ & Kinesiol, 1,Sec 2,Da Hsueh Rd, Hualien 97401, Taiwan								17							Sport Sciences	WOS:000516851900015	33	Article; Article		
J	Maffiuletti, Nicola A.; Bizzini, Mario; Sutter, Reto; Pfirrmann, Christian W.; Naal, Florian D.; Leunig, Michael; Casartelli, Nicola C.								Hip muscle strength asymmetries and their associations with hip morphology and symptoms are sex-specific in patients with femoroacetabular impingement syndrome								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				42				131	138		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.01.010			MAR 2020	2020	Objectives: To investigate sex-specific differences in hip muscle strength asymmetries, and associations between hip abductor and flexor strength asymmetries, hip morphology and symptoms in patients with femoroacetabular impingement syndrome (FATS). Design: Cross-sectional study. Setting: Clinical setting. Participants: Thirty-four patients with FAIS (21 women, 13 men). Main outcome measures: Side-to-side strength asymmetries of hip adductor, abductor, internal and external rotator, flexor and extensor muscles were assessed using dynamometry, while hip pain during contractions was evaluated with a visual analogue scale. Hip morphology was assessed on anteroposterior pelvic radiographs and magnetic resonance arthrography images. Hip symptoms were evaluated using the Oxford Hip Score (OHS). Results: Women presented larger hip flexor strength asymmetries than men. In women, hip abductor asymmetries correlated with the OHS and with hip pain during muscle contraction. Hip flexor asymmetries correlated with the alpha angle in men. Conclusion: Patients with FAIS demonstrated sex-specific hip muscle strength asymmetries and associations with the underlying hip symptoms and morphology. Women showed larger hip flexor strength asymmetries than men, and their hip abductor strength asymmetries were associated with hip symptoms. In contrast, hip flexor strength asymmetries in men were associated with the severity of the underlying cam morphology. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Maffiuletti, Nicola A.; Bizzini, Mario; Casartelli, Nicola C.] Schulthess Clin, Human Performance Lab, Lengghalde 2, CH-8008 Zurich, Switzerland; [Sutter, Reto; Pfirrmann, Christian W.] Orthopaed Univ Hosp Balgrist, Dept Radiol, Zurich, Switzerland; [Sutter, Reto; Pfirrmann, Christian W.] Univ Zurich, Fac Med, Zurich, Switzerland; [Naal, Florian D.; Leunig, Michael] Schulthess Clin, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Zurich, Switzerland; [Casartelli, Nicola C.] Swiss Fed Inst Technol, Lab Exercise & Hlth, Schwerzenbach, Switzerland; [Casartelli, Nicola C.] Schulthess Clin, Human Performance Lab, Lengghalde 2, CH-8008 Zurich, Switzerland								13							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000518492600019	35	Article; Article		
J	Hogan, K. K.; Prince, J. A.; Hoch, M. C.								The evalaution of the foot core system in individuals with plantar heel pain								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				42				75	81		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.11.011			MAR 2020	2020	Objective: To compare foot posture, plantar sensation, plantar fascia thickness, intrinsic foot muscle performance, and abductor hallucis morphology in individuals with and without plantar heel pain (PHP). Design: Cross-Sectional. Setting: Laboratory. Participants: Sixteen individuals with PHP and sixteen matched healthy participants. Main outcome measures: Static foot posture, plantar sensation, plantar fascia thickness, intrinsic foot muscle performance and abductor hallucis morphology were evaluated. Foot posture was assessed with the Foot Posture Index-6. Abductor hallucis morphology and plantar fascia thickness were measured utilizing diagnostic ultrasound. Plantar foot sensation was assessed at the head of the first metatarsal and medial longitudinal arch using Semmes-Weinstein Monofilaments. Intrinsic foot muscle performance was assessed using the intrinsic foot muscle test (IFMT). Mann-Whitney U and independent t-tests were used to examine between group differences. Results: Individuals with PHP exhibited a more pronated foot posture and greater plantar fascia thickness at the proximal insertion compared to healthy controls. Plantar sensation thresholds were higher in the PHP compared to healthy controls at the head of the first metatarsal. There were no group differences in abductor hallucis morphology or IFMT performance. Conclusions: Individuals with PHP exhibited a more pronated foot posture, thicker plantar fascia, and diminished plantar tactile sensation. (C) 2019 Published by Elsevier Ltd.		[Hogan, K. K.] Old Dominion Univ, Sch Phys Therapy & Athlet Training, 4211 Monarch Way, Norfolk, VA 23529 USA; [Prince, J. A.; Hoch, M. C.] Univ Kentucky, Div Athlet Training, 206B Charles T Wethington,Jr Bldg, Lexington, KY 40536 USA; [Hogan, K. K.] Old Dominion Univ, Sch Phys Therapy & Athlet Training, 4211 Monarch Way, Norfolk, VA 23529 USA								7							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000518492600011	41	Article; Article		
J	Gray, Margot; Wilson, Julie C.; Potter, Morgan; Provance, Aaron J.; Howell, David R.								Female adolescents demonstrate greater oculomotor and vestibular dysfunction than male adolescents following concussion								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				42				68	74		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.01.001			MAR 2020	2020	Objective: To examine differences between male and female adolescents on measures of balance, vestibular and oculomotor function within 3 weeks of concussion among a group of pediatric patients presenting to a sports medicine clinic. Design: Medical record review. Setting: Sports medicine clinic. Participants: 197 female (median age = 15.2 years) and 381 male (median age = 14.6 years) pediatric patients seen for a concussion, evaluated 9.3 +/- 5.2 (mean +/- SD) days post-concussion. Main outcome measures: Patients completed Balance Error Scoring System (BESS), tandem gait, gaze stability, and near point of convergence (NPC) tests. Results: A higher proportion of female patients exhibited abnormal NPC (22% vs. 14%; p = 0.017), gaze stability (53% vs. 43%; p = 0.028), and tandem gait tests (20% vs. 13%; p = 0.026) compared to male patients. Multivariable analysis indicated an independent association between female sex and increased odds of abnormal NPC (adjusted odds ratio (aORJ = 1.79, 95% CI = 1.07-3.00), and tandem gait tests (aOR = 1.96, 95% CI = 1.12-3.41) following concussion. Conclusions: Our results indicate that within the first three weeks of a concussion, female pediatric patients demonstrated increased odds of exhibiting abnormal near point of convergence, and tandem gait test performance compared to male patients. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Gray, Margot] Childrens Hosp Colorado, Phys Therapy Dept, Vestibular Disorders Program, Aurora, CO 80045 USA; [Wilson, Julie C.; Potter, Morgan; Provance, Aaron J.; Howell, David R.] Childrens Hosp Colorado, Sports Med Ctr, Aurora, CO 80045 USA; [Wilson, Julie C.; Provance, Aaron J.; Howell, David R.] Univ Colorado, Dept Orthoped, Sch Med, 13123 E 16th Ave,B060, Aurora, CO 80045 USA; [Wilson, Julie C.] Univ Colorado, Dept Pediat, Sch Med, Aurora, CO 80045 USA; [Howell, David R.] Univ Colorado, Dept Orthoped, Sch Med, 13123 E 16th Ave,B060, Aurora, CO 80045 USA; [Howell, David R.] Childrens Hosp Colorado, ATC Sports Med Ctr, 13123 E 16th Ave,B060, Aurora, CO 80045 USA								14							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000518492600010	43	Article; Article		
J	Colapietro, Mark; Fraser, John J.; Resch, Jacob E.; Hertel, Jay								Running mechanics during 1600 meter track runs in young adults with and without chronic ankle instability								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				42				16	25		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.11.010			MAR 2020	2020	Objective: To evaluate biomechanical measures in runners with and without chronic ankle instability (CAI) using wearable sensors during two 1600 m track runs at a slow- and fast-pace. Design: Observational case-control. Setting: Field. Participants: 18 recreational runners (CAI: n = 9; Healthy: n = 9) with rearfoot strike patterns. Main outcome measures: Pronation excursion, maximum pronation velocity, peak braking g, peak impact g, contact time, cycle time, and stride length of every step of two 1600 m runs were collected using RunScribe (TM) sensors and binned to each 400 m lap (Lap 1 to Lap 4). Results: Significant group-by-lap interactions were identified for contact time (p =.05) during the slow-intensity run. The CAI group had greater contact time (p = 0.05) that progressively increased with distance completed. CAI group also had higher impact g than the control group throughout the slow-intensity run (p =.03). During the fast-intensity run, significant group by lap interaction was observed for pronation excursion with the CAI group exhibiting less pronation excursion than the healthy group as the run progressed (p =.002). Conclusions: Regardless of speed, runners with CAI demonstrated altered gait mechanics compared to healthy controls. During the higher intensity run, decreased pronation excursion was observed in the CAI group and differences became more prominent as the distance increased. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Colapietro, Mark; Fraser, John J.; Resch, Jacob E.; Hertel, Jay] Univ Virginia, Dept Kinesiol, Charlottesville, VA 22903 USA; [Fraser, John J.] Naval Hlth Res Ctr, Warfighter Performance Dept, San Diego, CA 92152 USA; [Colapietro, Mark] Penn State Coll Hlth & Human Dev, Kinesiol Dept, 146 Recreat Hall, University Pk, PA 16802 USA								13							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000518492600003	57	Article; Article		
J	Keyes, Brandon L.; Wilson, Kathleen S.								Influence of Parental Physical Activity and Sedentary Behavior on Young Children: Considering Time Together								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				92	3			311	320		10.1080/02701367.2020.1727405			JUL 3 2021	2021	Purpose: Parents are key role models for their young child's physical activity (PA) and sedentary behavior. This study examined the relationship between parents and their young child's PA and sedentary behavior considering whether the parent and child were together (present) or apart. Methods: Parent and child dyads (N = 26) wore accelerometers for 10 days and recorded times when they were present or absent from their young children (parental presence) in an online daily diary. Hourly data for PA and sedentary behavior of both the parent and young child were coded for parental presence. Multilevel modeling was used to predict child behavior (sedentary, light PA, and moderate to vigorous PA) using the respective parent behavior, the presence of the parent, and the interaction between parent behavior and presence. Results: The interaction between presence and parent behavior predicted the respective child behavior (p < .05). Parents' behavior was positively related to their young child's behavior when they were together, but the relationship was not present (moderate to vigorous PA) or weaker (sedentary behavior, light PA) when apart. Conclusions: Being active alone was not sufficient for a parent's PA to relate to their young child's PA, but rather being active in the presence of their child was important for young child's PA.		[Keyes, Brandon L.; Wilson, Kathleen S.] Calif State Univ Fullerton, Fullerton, CA 92634 USA; [Wilson, Kathleen S.] Calif State Univ Fullerton, Dept Kinesiol, 800 N State Coll Blvd, Fullerton, CA 92831 USA								13							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000517031000001	39	Article; Article		
J	Kozlowski, Karl F.; Lopata, Christopher; Donnelly, James P.; Thomeer, Marcus L.; Rodgers, Jonathan D.; Seymour, Clancy								Feasibility and Associated Physical Performance Outcomes of a High-Intensity Exercise Program for Children With Autism								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				92	3			289	300		10.1080/02701367.2020.1726272			JUL 3 2021	2021	Purpose: Children with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) without intellectual disability (ID) exhibit social and motor impairments and circumscribed interests/behaviors that contribute to lower physical activity (PA) levels. Despite the need for exercise interventions for these children, there is a dearth of evidence-based treatments. This study tested the feasibility of a high-intensity exercise program for children with ASD without ID, and associated changes in physical performance. Method: Fifty-eight children, ages 7-12 with ASD without ID participated. The intervention (5 weeks, 19 sessions, 60 mins ea.) was conducted during the summer. Each session was manualized (operationalized instructional procedure and curriculum) and targeted components of fitness and motor performance using skill development exercises, workouts, and game-related activities. Feasibility was assessed via fidelity (implementation accuracy), satisfaction surveys, attrition, and injuries. Physical performance was tested at baseline and posttest using measures of work production (completed rounds of an exercise circuit) and within-session activity levels (time in moderate-to-vigorous PA), and six exercise tests (sit and reach, push-ups, sit-ups, air squats, long jump, and PACER). Results: Results indicated high levels of fidelity (93.7%) and child and staff satisfaction, and no attrition or injuries, supporting the feasibility, tolerability, and safety of the protocol. Significant increases were found in work production and activity levels (ds 0.83 and 1.05, respectively) and on three exercise tests (sit ups, air squats, and long jump; ds 0.29-0.37). Conclusion: The exercise program was feasible and safe, and completion was associated with significant improvements in multiple areas of performance; a randomized controlled trial appears warranted.		[Kozlowski, Karl F.; Lopata, Christopher; Donnelly, James P.; Thomeer, Marcus L.; Rodgers, Jonathan D.; Seymour, Clancy] Canisius Coll, 2001 Main St, Buffalo, NY 14208 USA; [Kozlowski, Karl F.] Canisius Coll, 2001 Main St, Buffalo, NY 14208 USA								19							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000517032000001	40	Article; Article		
J	Stoepker, Peter; Dauenhauer, Brian; Carson, Russell L.; Moore, Justin B.								Comprehensive School Physical Activity Program Policies and Practices Questionnaire (CSPAP-Q)								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				92	1			100	110		10.1080/02701367.2019.1711008			JAN 2 2021	2021	Purpose: The Comprehensive School Physical Activity Program (CSPAP) model has recently been adopted as a national framework for physical activity (PA) promotion in schools. As a result, there is a need to develop an instrument to help leaders of PA measure policies and practices across the five component areas of a CSPAP. To address this gap, our team systematically developed and assessed the psychometric properties of the CSPAP-Q, an instrument designed to assess school policies and practices related to the five components of CSPAP. Methods: The instrument development process began by reviewing existing school health and PA surveys. The Delphi method was then used to evaluate face and content validity through expert feedback. Thirty-eight physical education teachers completed the CSPAP-Q twice over a 14-day period to further establish validity and to assess test-retest reliability. Results: In total, 117 items were identified for the initial review. Upon completion of expert feedback, 22 items were eliminated and 66 items were revised. After reliability testing, three additional items were eliminated due to low test-retest agreement levels (Kappa <.40; non-significant chi(2)). Ninety-two items were retained in the final version of the CSPAP-Q and kappa values indicated moderate to substantial agreement among items. Conclusions: After validity and reliability testing, results suggest that the CSPAP-Q is a valid and reliable tool for assessing policies and practices related to CSPAP.		[Stoepker, Peter] Univ West Georgia, 1601 Maple St, Carrollton, GA 30118 USA; [Dauenhauer, Brian] Univ Northern Colorado, Greeley, CO 80639 USA; [Carson, Russell L.] PlayCore, Chattanooga, TN USA; [Moore, Justin B.] Wake Forest Sch Med, Winston Salem, NC USA; [Stoepker, Peter] Univ West Georgia, 1601 Maple St, Carrollton, GA 30118 USA								18							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000516723100001	42	Article; Article		
J	Benes, Sarah; Boyd, Kelly M.; Cucina, Irene; Alperin, Holly L.								School-Based Health Education Research: Charting the Course for the Future								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				92	1			111	126		10.1080/02701367.2020.1712315			JAN 2 2021	2021	SHAPE America has identified four goals as part of the 50 Million Strong by 2029 initiative; one of these goals is healthy behavior. School-based health education is uniquely positioned to be a primary route through which this goal can be achieved. Health education is an academic subject included in a well-rounded education, based on health behavior and learning theory, research-based and taught by licensed and trained health educators with adequate instructional time. Health education helps students acquire functional knowledge about a variety of topics and develop health-related skills resulting in personal competence and self-efficacy. The purpose of this paper is to provide an overview of the existing evidence examining school-based health education and to articulate future directions for research that will solidify school-based health education as a necessary and efficacious strategy for improving the health and wellness of youth.		[Benes, Sarah] Merrimack Coll, 315 Turnpike St, N Andover, MA 01845 USA; [Boyd, Kelly M.] East Stroudsburg Univ, East Stroudsburg, PA USA; [Cucina, Irene] Plymouth State Univ, Plymouth, NH USA; [Alperin, Holly L.] Univ New Hampshire, Durham, NH 03824 USA; [Benes, Sarah] Merrimack Coll, 315 Turnpike St, N Andover, MA 01845 USA								13							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000516723500001	91	Article; Article		
J	Follmer, Bruno; Varga, Aaron Alexander; Zehr, E. Paul								Understanding concussion knowledge and behavior among mixed martial arts, boxing, kickboxing, and Muay Thai athletes and coaches								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				48	4			417	423		10.1080/00913847.2020.1729668			OCT 1 2020	2020	Objectives: In combat sports, strikes to the head are not just incidental but a deliberate and clear determinant of success. Concussion is a complex injury that is poorly understood and inappropriate practices are often observed among athletes and coaches. The purpose of this study was to investigate concussion knowledge and behavior as well as address recommendations for combat sports athletes and coaches. Methods: 70 athletes and 35 coaches from combat sports disciplines completed an online-validated survey and a personal questionnaire about concussion knowledge, training experience, and knowledge translation. Athletes were divided into subgroups for analysis according to sex (male n = 55, female n = 15), skill level (amateur n = 52, professional n = 18), and weight classes (<66.2 kg: n = 25, 66.6 to 77.5 kg: n = 30, and >78 kg: n = 15). Results: The likely absence of health-care professionals during training was confirmed by 68.5% of coaches, and athletes declared that self-diagnosis (79%) and coaches' diagnosis (43.3%) were the most used method of suspected concussion assessment. Merely 5.7% of coaches properly recognized the level of traumatic brain injury a concussion represents, 68.8% were unfamiliar with any sideline assessment tools, and only 14.3% often seek out concussion knowledge. Athletes who were aware of the level of brain injury a concussion represents performed fewer sparring sessions per week (mild: 1.27 +/- 1.1; severe: 3.17 +/- 2.81; p = .05, d = .89) and had a greater likelihood of reporting concussive episodes. Most professional (55.5%), female (54.5%), and under 66.2 kg (50%) athletes returned to full practice within 1 week following a concussion diagnosis. Conclusions: Relevant key gaps of knowledge and behavior were verified in combat sports athletes and coaches. The awareness of basic concepts may improve injury reporting and safer behavior in athletes. Knowledge translation strategies with accessible language are recommended for coaches, in particular on how to identify acute symptoms and perform basic assessment.		[Follmer, Bruno; Zehr, E. Paul] Univ Victoria, Sch Exercise Sci Phys & Hlth Educ, Victoria, BC, Canada; [Follmer, Bruno; Varga, Aaron Alexander; Zehr, E. Paul] Univ Victoria, Rehabil Neurosci Lab, Victoria, BC, Canada; [Zehr, E. Paul] Int Collaborat Repair Discoveries ICORD, Human Discovery Sci, Vancouver, BC, Canada; [Zehr, E. Paul] Univ Victoria, Ctr Biomed Res, Victoria, BC, Canada; [Zehr, E. Paul] Univ Victoria, Div Med Sci, Victoria, BC, Canada; [Zehr, E. Paul] Univ British Columbia, Fac Med, Dept Med, Div Neurol, Victoria, BC, Canada; [Zehr, E. Paul] Univ Victoria, Sch Exercise Sci Phys & Hlth Educ, Rehabil Neurosci Lab, Room 172,McKinnon Bldg,3800 Finnerty Rd, Victoria, BC V8P 5C2, Canada								39							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000516914800001	37	Article; Article		
J	Filanowski, Patrick M.; Iannotti, Ronald J.; Camhi, Sarah M.; Whiteley, Jessica A.; Milliken, Laurie A.								Physical Activity and Enjoyment in Parent-Child Dyads during Shared Physical Activity								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				92	1			127	136		10.1080/02701367.2020.1712316			JAN 2 2021	2021	Purpose: The purpose of this study was to compare objectively-measured physical activity (PA) and enjoyment of five shared PAs in parent-child dyads. Method: Thirty-one parent-child dyads (mean +/- SD; age, parents: 38.0 +/- 6.6 years, children: 5.9 +/- 1.7 years) completed separate PA sessions, which included five standardized PAs (brisk walking, jumping games, dancing, body-weight exercises, and tag games) in random order for each dyad. Parent and child moderate-to-vigorous PA (MVPA) and accelerometer counts per minute (CPM) were measured using Actigraph GT9X activity monitors. The Visual Analog Scale was used to assess enjoyment of children and parents. Repeated measures ANOVAs and paired t-tests determined differences in PA within and between children and parents for the activities, respectively. Friedman Tests with post hoc Wilcoxon signed-rank tests determined significant differences in enjoyment across the activities for children and parents and Wilcoxon signed-rank tests compared enjoyment between children and parents for each PA. Results: Jumping games resulted in the highest proportion of time spent in MVPA and highest overall CPM for children and parents (p < .05). Compared to parents, children spent proportionally more time in MVPA during jumping games, body-weight exercises, and tag games (all, p < .05). Tag games were the most enjoyable PA for children and parents (p < .05). Children enjoyed body-weight exercises more than parents (p < .05). Conclusions: Future indoor PA programs and research interventions that include parent-child dyads should consider implementing jumping games, body-weight exercises, and tag games during shared PA, which resulted in higher MVPA and enjoyment by both children and parents when compared to walking and dancing.		[Filanowski, Patrick M.] Xavier Univ, Cincinnati, OH 45207 USA; [Iannotti, Ronald J.] CDM Grp Inc, Bethesda, MD USA; [Camhi, Sarah M.; Whiteley, Jessica A.; Milliken, Laurie A.] Univ Massachusetts, Boston, MA 02125 USA; [Filanowski, Patrick M.] Xavier Univ, Dept Sport Studies, 3800 Victory Pkwy, Cincinnati, OH 45207 USA								16							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000515198900001	42	Article; Article		
J	El-Attrache, Almaan; Kephart, Eric								Paget-Schroetter Syndrome: a case report of diagnosis, treatment, and outcome in a healthy 18-year-old athletic swimmer								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				48	3			358	362		10.1080/00913847.2019.1711236			JUL 2 2020	2020	Paget-Schroetter Syndrome is a rare condition in the spectrum of deep vein thromboses involving spontaneous upper extremity venous thrombosis in the axillary-subclavian vein. The syndrome usually occurs in young, healthy individuals and is a progressive, anatomic manifestation of venous thoracic outlet syndrome. Thrombosis is secondary to repetitive overuse of the arm, leading to compression, microtrauma, and local inflammation of the particularly vulnerable subclavian vein in the thoracic outlet at the junction of the first rib and clavicle. The condition is often misdiagnosed because of its rarity and can lead to significant disability and morbidity if treatment is delayed. In this case report, Paget-Schroetter Syndrome, causing significant pain and dysfunction, is presented in an 18 year-old female freestyle-swimmer that was successfully treated with anticoagulation, thrombolysis, thoracic outlet decompression and first rib resection, scalenectomy, venolysis, and venoplasty. Early suspicion of this condition can lead to prompt diagnosis, and subsequent aggressive interventional treatment with catheter-directed thrombolysis and thoracic outlet decompression, in addition to anticoagulation, demonstrated success in achieving complete resolution of symptoms in this case.		[El-Attrache, Almaan; Kephart, Eric] Univ Orthoped Ctr, Primary Care Sports Med, Altoona, PA USA; [El-Attrache, Almaan; Kephart, Eric] Conemaugh Mem Med Ctr, Dept Sports Med, Johnstown, PA USA; [Kephart, Eric] St Francis Univ Athlet, Dept Athlet & Sports Med, Loretto, PA USA; [El-Attrache, Almaan] 20 East Main St, Mt Pleasant, MI 15666 USA								3							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000514558400001	8	Article; Article		
J	Kozakai, Rumi; Nishita, Yukiko; Otsuka, Rei; Ando, Fujiko; Shimokata, Hiroshi								Age-related Changes in Physical Fitness among Community-living Middle-aged and Older Japanese: A 12-year Longitudinal Study								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				91	4			662	675		10.1080/02701367.2019.1697418			OCT 1 2020	2020	Physical fitness is one of the key factors in healthy aging. Although physical fitness is widely recognized to decline with age, age-related decreases in the individual dimensions of physical fitness in later life are less clear. Purpose: The purpose of the present study was to describe the age-related changes in six fitness components covering a variety of motor dimensions in men and women through a 12-year longitudinal epidemiological study. Method: Participants were randomly selected community-living men (n = 1,139) and women (n = 1,128) aged 40 to 79 years at baseline who were repeatedly tested over a mean (standard deviation) follow-up period of 9.8 (3.4) years with a mean of 4.9 (2.3) examinations. The six physical fitness tests were sit-and-reach, grip strength, sit-ups, one-leg standing, reaction time and leg extension power. The effect of age on each physical fitness task was analyzed using a mixed-effects model controlling for habitual physical activity level. Results: The fixed effect of the interaction of age and time in all fitness tests was significant in men. Higher age at baseline was significantly associated with a greater decrease over time except in one-leg standing. In women, no significant interaction effect of age and time was found in grip strength or reaction time. Age-related changes in grip strength and reaction time were constant with increasing age. Conclusion: Twelve-year longitudinal data showed that the age-related decrease in physical fitness over time, especially musculoskeletal fitness in men, was pronounced, whereas in women, the decrease was less pronounced.		[Kozakai, Rumi] Hokusho Univ, Ebetsu, Hokkaido, Japan; [Kozakai, Rumi; Nishita, Yukiko; Otsuka, Rei; Ando, Fujiko; Shimokata, Hiroshi] Natl Ctr Geriatr & Gerontol, Obu, Japan; [Ando, Fujiko] Aichi Shukutoku Univ, Nagakute, Aichi, Japan; [Shimokata, Hiroshi] Nagoya Univ Arts & Sci, Nisshin, Aichi, Japan; [Kozakai, Rumi] Hokusho Univ, Sch Lifelong Sport, 23 Bunkyodai, Ebetsu, Hokkaido 0698511, Japan								9							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000513967000001	41	Article; Article		
J	Wilson, Wesley J.; Richards, K. Andrew R.; Haegele, Justin A.; Holland, Steven K.								Perceived Workplace Experiences of Adapted Physical Educators and Physical Educators								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				91	4			618	629		10.1080/02701367.2019.1694632			OCT 1 2020	2020	Purpose: The purpose of this study was to compare the workplace experiences of physical education and adapted physical education teachers while also considering biological sex. Role socialization theory was used as a guiding lens. Method: Participants included 653 teachers (women = 382) who taught physical education (n = 420) or adapted physical education (n = 233). Five instruments were used to examine workplace experiences regarding: (a) marginalization and isolation, (b) two elements of perceived mattering, (c) three role stressors, (d) resilience, and (e) emotional exhaustion. Group comparisons were analyzed using a 2 x 2 (discipline x biological sex) factorial MANCOVA while including years of teaching experience as a covariate. Results: No significant interaction effect between teacher group and biological sex was detected; however, there were significant main effects of teacher group, F(9,640) = 19.49, p < .001; Wilk's ? = .79, partial-eta(2) = .22, and of biological sex, F(9,640) = 2.81, p < .01; Wilk's ? = .96, partial-eta(2) = .04, on the dependent variables. Significant follow-up univariate tests showed that the adapted physical education teachers perceived less marginalization, less isolation, more perceived mattering, and less emotional exhaustion than the physical education teachers. Women from both groups felt significantly more role overload when compared to the men. Conclusion: Collectively, these findings both relate to and extend role socialization theory in explaining how adapted physical education teachers are socialized through the workplace in comparison to their physical education counterparts. Practical implications for preservice and inservice teacher preparation and future research directions are discussed.		[Wilson, Wesley J.] Univ Louisiana Lafayette, Bourgeois Hall Rm 130-A,225 Cajundome Blvd, Lafayette, LA 70506 USA; [Richards, K. Andrew R.] Univ Illinois, Urbana, IL 61801 USA; [Haegele, Justin A.; Holland, Steven K.] Old Dominion Univ, Norfolk, VA 23529 USA; [Wilson, Wesley J.] Univ Louisiana Lafayette, Bourgeois Hall Rm 130-A,225 Cajundome Blvd, Lafayette, LA 70506 USA								15							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000513967400001	60	Article; Article		
J	Munoz-Lopez, Alejandro; Nakamura, Fabio; Naranjo Orellana, Jose								Soccer Matches but Not Training Sessions Disturb Cardiac-Autonomic Regulation During National Soccer Team Training Camps								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				92	1			43	51		10.1080/02701367.2019.1708843			JAN 2 2021	2021	Purpose: Heart rate variability (HRV) can be used to monitor changes in autonomic nervous system (ANS) function. Monitoring HRV via the natural log of the root-mean-square difference of successive normal RR intervals (lnRMSSD), a decrease was related to lower parasympathetic activity and a fatigued state, and an increase was related to higher parasympathetic activity and better physical conditioning. This study analyzed daily ANS function changes among professional soccer players at national team training camps during preparation for the UEFA Eurocup 2016. Method: 23 professional soccer players were distributed into two groups: First eleven (players who played more than 60 minutes per soccer match) and Reserves (the rest of the players). HRV and session training load (s-TL) were monitored. Between-group daily differences were assessed using two-way mixed repeated measures ANOVA. Results: s-TL significantly increased (p < .05) at the beginning of each camp and significantly decreased the day before the soccer match (p < .001). There was a significant time by group interaction in lnRMSSD (p = .024). Changes were found in the First eleven group from match day +1 to match day +2 (+0.523 ms, p = .003). After the soccer match, there were between-group differences (p < .05) at +24h and +72h in lnRMSSD. Conclusions: During national team training camps, ANS function was only modified 24h and 72h after playing soccer matches, in players who played a minimum of 60 minutes. This knowledge can help coaches to monitor the impact of soccer matches during training camps to detect fatigue and improve recovery.		[Munoz-Lopez, Alejandro] Univ Seville, Seville, Spain; [Nakamura, Fabio] Univ Fed Paraiba, Joao Pessoa, Paraiba, Brazil; [Naranjo Orellana, Jose] Univ Pablo Olavide, Seville, Spain; [Munoz-Lopez, Alejandro] Univ Seville, Fac Educ Sci, Motricidad Humana & Rendimiento Deport, C Pirotecn S-N 4-78, Seville, Spain								13							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000513113500001	34	Article; Article		
J	Geard, David; Rebar, Amanda L.; Dionigi, Rylee A.; Reaburn, Peter R. J.								Testing a Model of Successful Aging on Masters Athletes and Non-Sporting Adults								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				92	1			11	20		10.1080/02701367.2019.1702146			JAN 2 2021	2021	Purpose: To test confirmatory factor analyses of successful aging composed of physical, psychological, cognitive, and social functioning factors in masters athletes (n = 764) and non-sporting adults (n = 404), and compare the physical, psychological, cognitive, and social functioning of masters athletes versus non-sporting adults. Method: Self-reported cross-sectional data were analyzed with confirmatory factor analyses. Results: Physical, psychological, cognitive, and social functioning latent factors significantly loaded onto a higher-order successful aging latent factor (p < .05). Masters athletes had higher physical and social functioning than non-sporting adults (p < .05). Psychological and cognitive functioning did not differ between groups. Conclusions: Successful aging should be considered as a multi-faceted construct consisting of different domains of functioning for both masters athletes and non-sporting adults. Masters athletes were aged successfully relative to the non-sporting adults across the physical and social functioning domains. Physical, psychological, cognitive, and social functioning domains constitute an appropriate model to use in future experimental research investigating the effect of masters sport for successful aging.		[Geard, David; Rebar, Amanda L.; Reaburn, Peter R. J.] Cent Queensland Univ, Rockhampton, Qld, Australia; [Dionigi, Rylee A.] Charles Sturt Univ, Bathurst, NSW, Australia; [Reaburn, Peter R. J.] Bond Univ, Fac Hlth Sci & Med, Gold Coast, Australia; [Geard, David] Cent Queensland Univ, Sch Hlth Med & Appl Sci, 554-700 Yaamba Rd, Rockhampton, Qld 4701, Australia								21							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000513120000001	48	Article; Article		
J	Wight, Jeff T.; Tillman, Mark D.; Grover, Guy B.; Chow, John W.; Borsa, Paul A.; Wikstrom, Erik A.; Larkin-Kaiser, Kelly								Pitching shoulder passive flexibility: torque-angle analysis for external rotation and internal rotation								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				21	8			877	889		10.1080/14763141.2019.1705885			SEP 14 2022	2022	In this study, a custom device was developed to analyse the pitching shoulder's external rotation (ER) and internal rotation (IR) passive flexibility. We analysed three novel measures: the resistance onset angle (ROA = angle where the shoulder begins stretching), rotational stiffness, and torque at the end range of motion (ROM). The purpose was to conduct a bilateral analysis to determine if there are significant differences between the throwing and non-throwing shoulder. Participants were 30 upper level pitchers (13 division I, 17 minor league). During testing, pitchers laid supine on a treatment table and the arm was secured to a rotational wheel with the shoulder abducted 90 degrees and elbow flexed 90 degrees. Dependent t-tests revealed significant (p < 0.01) and relatively extreme bilateral differences for all three variables. The throwing shoulder had: increased ER ROA (9 degrees), decreased IR ROA (5.3 degrees), increased ER stiffness (17%), increased IR stiffness (34%), increased ER torque (21%), and increased IR torque (30%). Secondary correlation analysis was completed to determine if the torque-angle variables were good predictors of the end ROM. Stiffness correlations were weak for ER (r = 0.35, p = 0.048) and IR (r = 0.42, p = 0.017) but ROA correlations were strong for ER (r = 0.85, p < 0.001) and IR (r = 0.86, p < 0.001).		[Wight, Jeff T.] Jacksonville Univ, Brooks Rehabil Coll Healthcare Sci, Jacksonville, FL 32211 USA; [Tillman, Mark D.] Kennesaw State Univ, WellStar Coll Hlth & Human Serv, Kennesaw, GA 30144 USA; [Grover, Guy B.] Regenerat Technol Inc, Alachua, FL USA; [Chow, John W.] Methodist Rehabil Ctr, Ctr Neurosci & Neurol Recovery, Jackson, MS USA; [Borsa, Paul A.] Univ Florida, Appl Physiol & Kinesiol, Gainesville, FL USA; [Wikstrom, Erik A.] Univ N Carolina, Dept Exercise & Sport Sci, Chapel Hill, NC 27515 USA; [Larkin-Kaiser, Kelly] Medlior Hlth Outcomes Res, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Wight, Jeff T.] Jacksonville Univ, Brooks Rehabil Coll Healthcare Sci, Jacksonville, FL 32211 USA								3							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000513087300001	33	Article; Article		
J	Shimokawa, Raku; Nelson, Andre; Zois, James								Does ground-reaction force influence post-impact ball speed in the tennis forehand groundstroke?								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				21	7			850	860		10.1080/14763141.2019.1705884			AUG 9 2022	2022	Motion of the rear leg during a tennis forehand was previously reported to influence the ball speed. However, impact of a kinetic measure such as the ground-reaction force (GRF) on forehand ball speed has not been investigated. The aim of this study was to investigate the influence of GRF on forehand ball speed and identify the most influential component of GRF related to overall higher ball speeds. Nine tennis players (eight males, one female) were invited to participate. Three testing sessions were conducted. Each session consisted of maximal forehand ball-speed testing and seven forehands at three ball speeds; fast (100%), medium (90%) and slow (80%). GRF and post-impact ball speed were measured for each stroke. Of all the individual GRF vectors, peak anterior-posterior force best explained the changes in ball speed, where 26% (R-2 = 0.26) of ball speed variance can be explained by this force vector alone. In a stepwise fashion, adding peak lateral force to the model explained a further 7% (R-2 = 0.33). Combining peak anterior-posterior, medial-lateral and vertical forces explained a total of 37% (R-2 = 0.37). Peak anterior-posterior force appears to be the most influential ground-reaction force affecting forehand post-impact ball speed.		[Shimokawa, Raku; Nelson, Andre; Zois, James] Victoria Univ, Inst Hlth & Sport, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Shimokawa, Raku] Victoria Univ, Inst Hlth & Sport, Melbourne, Vic, Australia								11							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000513083600001	20	Article; Article		
J	Komissarov, Serguei S.								Dynamics of carving runs in alpine skiing. I. The basic centrifugal pendulum								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				21	8			890	911		10.1080/14763141.2019.1710559			SEP 14 2022	2022	We studied perfect carving turns of alpine skiing using the simple model of an inverted pendulum which is subject to the gravity force and the force mimicking the centrifugal force emerging in the turns. Depending on the turn speed the model describes two different regimes. In the subcritical regime, there exist three equilibrium positions of the pendulum where the total torque applied to the pendulum vanishes-the marginally stable vertical position and two unstable tilted positions on both sides of the vertical. The tilted equilibria correspond to the ski turns executed in perfect balance. The vertical equilibrium corresponds to gliding down the fall line without turns. In the supercritical regime, the tilted equilibria disappear. In addition to the equilibria, the model allows fall-rise solutions, where the pendulum (skier) rises from the ground on one side and hits the ground on the other side, and solutions describing oscillations about the vertical equilibrium. These oscillations correspond to the so-called dynamic skiing where the skier never settles to a balanced position in the turn. Analysis of the available data on World Cup races shows that elite racers ski mostly in the supercritical regime.		[Komissarov, Serguei S.] Univ Leeds, Dept Appl Math, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England; [Komissarov, Serguei S.] Univ Leeds, Dept Appl Math, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England								7							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000512937600001	14	Article; Article		
J	Du, Tanghuizi; Yanai, Toshimasa								Accuracy and reliability of a method for measuring three-dimensional articular motions of the shoulder complex during swimming								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				21	7			837	849		10.1080/14763141.2019.1702089			AUG 9 2022	2022	This technical report introduces a method for measuring the three-dimensional articular motions of the shoulder complex during swimming. Eleven collegiate swimmers performed front-crawl strokes at maximal effort and their shoulder motions were measured with an electromagnetic tracking device. Sensors were attached to the sternum, acromia and humeri to determine their relative positions and orientations. A cart carrying the components of the device was pushed back-and-forth along the poolside, so that the sensors attached to the swimmer could be detected within the electromagnetic field. The stroke-to-stroke reliability of the measured articular motions was determined for each swimmer. The accuracy of the device was tested by measuring the relative positions and orientations of multiple sensors fixed on a wooden stick moving above and below the water surface. The measured values were compared with pre-determined fixed values. The coefficient of variance for the joint angles between stroke cycles was <10% of the total range of movement. Within a range of 1282 mm from the transmitter, the root-mean-square error of measurement was 0.7 degrees for orientation and 4 mm for position, both of which were superior to optical measurements. This method is accurate and reliable for measuring the kinematics of the shoulder complex during swimming.		[Du, Tanghuizi; Yanai, Toshimasa] Waseda Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Tokorozawa, Saitama, Japan; [Yanai, Toshimasa] Waseda Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Tokorozawa, Saitama, Japan								3							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000512795100001	16	Article; Article		
J	Qu, Hang; Zhang, Songning; Sorochan, John C.; Weinhandl, Joshua T.; Thoms, Adam W.; Dickson, Kyley H.								Effects of synthetic turf and shock pad on impact attenuation related biomechanics during drop landing								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				21	6			748	760		10.1080/14763141.2019.1690570			JUL 3 2022	2022	Adding a shock pad as an underlayment to synthetic turf aims to improve attenuation of impact forces. The purpose of this research was to investigate effects of an infilled synthetic turf with three different shock pads on impact attenuation related biomechanics of lower extremity during the drop landing. Twelve active and healthy recreational male athletes performed 60 cm drop landing with a controlled landing technique on five surface conditions: a baseline surface (force platform), an infilled synthetic turf surface, turf plus foam shock pad, turf plus a low-density shock pad, and turf plus a high-density shock pad. Furthermore, a mechanical impact test was conducted (ASTM F355). Turf plus foam shock pad, turf plus low-density shock pad, and turf plus high-density shock pad all resulted in significantly lower 1st vertical peak ground reaction force (13.3%, 13.3%, and 12.7% reductions, respectively) and loading rate (20.4%, 25.4%, and 21.1% reductions, respectively) compared to baseline surface. Significantly greater trunk extension moment was found on turf plus low-density shock pad compared to turf surface (21.2%) and turf plus foam shock pad (12.0%). These results suggest that synthetic turf plus shock pad surfaces provide improved impact attenuation compared to baseline surface in the early landing phase.		[Qu, Hang] Univ Oregon, Dept Human Physiol, Eugene, OR 97403 USA; [Zhang, Songning; Weinhandl, Joshua T.] Univ Tennessee, Dept Kinesiol Recreat & Sport Studies, Knoxville, TN 37996 USA; [Sorochan, John C.; Dickson, Kyley H.] Univ Tennessee, Dept Plant Sci, Knoxville, TN USA; [Thoms, Adam W.] Iowa State Univ, Dept Hort, Ames, IA USA; [Zhang, Songning] Univ Tennessee, Dept Kinesiol Recreat & Sport Studies, Knoxville, TN 37996 USA								6							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000512514500001	35	Article; Article		
J	Saito, Akira; Okada, Kyoji; Sasaki, Makoto; Wakasa, Masahiko								Influence of the trunk position on knee kinematics during the single-leg landing: implications for injury prevention								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				21	7			810	823		10.1080/14763141.2019.1691642			AUG 9 2022	2022	The purpose of the present study was to investigate the influence of the trunk position during the single-leg landing on the knee angle and muscle activity. Forty healthy university students (20 men and 20 women) performed right single-leg landings from a 40 cm-high platform with the trunk in neutral, flexion, extension, and right and left lateral flexion. Knee flexion and valgus angles were determined by two-dimensional video analysis, and rectus femoris (RF) and biceps femoris (BF) muscle activities were assessed. The knee flexion angle was significantly higher in the trunk-flexion position than in the other trunk positions. The knee valgus angle was significantly lower in the trunk-neutral and trunk-flexion positions than in the trunk-extension, trunk-right-lateral-flexion, and trunk-left-lateral flexion positions. Muscle activity of the RF was significantly lower in the trunk-flexion position than in the trunk-extension position and that of the BF was significantly higher in the trunk-flexion position than in the trunk-neutral, trunk-extension, and trunk-right-lateral-flexion positions. Single (right)-leg landing with the trunk in flexion may confer a low risk of anterior cruciate ligament injury compared to that with the trunk in extension or right lateral flexion.		[Saito, Akira; Okada, Kyoji; Sasaki, Makoto; Wakasa, Masahiko] Akita Univ, Grad Sch Hlth Sci, Dept Phys Therapy, Akita, Japan; [Saito, Akira] Akita Univ, Grad Sch Hlth Sci, Dept Phys Therapy, Akita, Japan								26							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000512513800001	46	Article; Article		
J	Field, Adam; Corr, Liam David; Haines, Matthew; Lui, Steve; Naughton, Robert; Page, Richard Michael; Harper, Liam David								Biomechanical and Physiological Responses to 120 min of Soccer-Specific Exercise								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				91	4			692	704		10.1080/02701367.2019.1698698			OCT 1 2020	2020	Purpose: The purpose of the study is to investigate biomechanical and physiological responses to soccer-specific exercise incorporating an extra-time period (ET) and assess the test-retest reliability of these responses. Methods: Twelve soccer players performed 120 min of soccer-specific exercise. Tri-axial (PLTotal) and uni-axial PlayerLoad (TM) in the vertical (PLV), anterior-posterior (PLA-P), and medial-lateral (PLM-L) planes were monitored using a portable accelerometer. Likewise, respiratory exchange ratio (RER) was recorded throughout exercise. At the end of each 15-min period, players provided differential ratings of perceived exertion for legs (RPE-L), breathlessness (RPE-B) and overall (RPE-O), and capillary samples were taken to measure blood lactate (BLa) concentrations. The soccer-specific exercise was completed twice within 7 days to assess reliability. Results: A main effect for time was identified for PLTotal (p = 0.045), PLV (p = 0.002), PLA-P (p = 0.011), RER (p = 0.001), RPE-L (p = 0.001), RPE-O (p = 0.003), and CMJ (p = 0.020). A significant increase in PLTotal (234 +/- 34 au) and decrease in RER (0.87 +/- 0.03) was evident during 105-120 versus 0-15 min (215 +/- 25 au; p = 0.002 and 0.92 +/- 0.02; p = 0.001). Coefficients of variations were <10% and Pearson's correlation coefficient demonstrated moderate-to-very strong (0.33-0.99) reliability for all PL variables, RPE-B, BLa, and RER. Conclusions: These results suggest that mechanical efficiency is compromised and an increased rate of lipolysis is observed as a function of exercise duration, particularly during ET. These data have implications for practitioners interested in fatigue-induced changes during ET.		[Field, Adam; Corr, Liam David; Haines, Matthew; Lui, Steve; Naughton, Robert; Harper, Liam David] Univ Huddersfield, Huddersfield, W Yorkshire, England; [Page, Richard Michael] Edge Hill Univ, Ormskirk, England; [Field, Adam] Univ Huddersfield, Sch Human & Hlth Sci, Huddersfield HD1 3DH, W Yorkshire, England								8							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000512914700001	47	Article; Article		
J	Honorato, Renee de Caldas; Franchini, Emerson; Resende Lara, Jerusa Petrovna; Fonteles, Andre Igor; Barbosa de Lima Pinto, Julio Cesar; Mortatti, Arnaldo Luis								Differences in Handgrip Strength-endurance and Muscle Activation between Young Male Judo Athletes and Untrained Individuals								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				92	1			1	10		10.1080/02701367.2019.1699233			JAN 2 2021	2021	Purpose: The aim of this study was to compare strength-endurance handgrip performance and muscle coactivation between judo athletes and untrained young males. Method: The sample was 38 judo athletes and 38 untrained young males, between 12 and 15 years-old. Maturational status was evaluated by age at peak height velocity. A maximal isometric handgrip test (three 5-s repetitions, with 90-s intervals) and an isometric strength-endurance handgrip test (ten 10-s all-out isometric handgrip repetitions, 20-s intervals) was conducted in dominant (D) and nondominant (ND) hands, using a dynamometer with EMG monitor to detect muscle activation. Results: ANCOVA analysis, controlling for maturational status, showed that judo athletes had higher values of maximal absolute (D = 33.6 +/- 8.9 kgf vs 29.1 +/- 9.0 kgf; ND = 33.8 +/- 9.9 kgf vs 28.1 +/- 8.1 kgf) and relative strength to body mass (D = 0.64 +/- 0.12 kg/kgf vs 0.57 +/- 0.13 kg/kgf; ND = 0.64 +/- 0.16 kg/kgf vs 0.56 +/- 0.14 kg/kgf). Moreover, judo athletes presented lower strength mean fatigue index (33.2 +/- 6.9 % vs 37.9 +/- 8.7 %) and muscle coactivation (48 +/- 19.8 % vs 57.5 +/- 22 %), only in the dominant hand, during the isometric strength-endurance handgrip test. During all repetitions of isometric endurance test there were no group or interaction between factors effects for absolute strength, relative strength and muscle coactivation. Conclusion: In summary, judo athletes present higher maximal absolute and relative strength and strength-endurance performance, concomitantly with decreased muscles co-activation (primary in dominant hand) during handgrip tests.		[Honorato, Renee de Caldas; Barbosa de Lima Pinto, Julio Cesar; Mortatti, Arnaldo Luis] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Norte, Natal, RN, Brazil; [Franchini, Emerson] Univ Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Franchini, Emerson] Australian Inst Sport, Bruce, Australia; [Resende Lara, Jerusa Petrovna] Univ Fed Parana, Curitiba, Parana, Brazil; [Fonteles, Andre Igor; Barbosa de Lima Pinto, Julio Cesar] Univ Fed Ceara, Fortaleza, Ceara, Brazil; [Fonteles, Andre Igor] Univ Fortaleza UNIFOR, Fortaleza, Ceara, Brazil; [Honorato, Renee de Caldas] Av Hermes da Fonseca S-N, BR-59084100 Natal, RN, Brazil								16							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000512914900001	35	Article; Article		
J	Andrade, Carolina M.; de Souza, Thales R.; Mazoni, Alysson F.; de Andrade, Andre G. P.; Vaz, Daniela V.								Internal and Imagined External Foci of Attention Do Not Influence Pirouette Performance in Ballet Dancers								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				91	4			682	691		10.1080/02701367.2019.1698697			OCT 1 2020	2020	Ballet dancers need to constantly improve their performance. Several studies show that an internal focus (on body movements) leads to inferior motor performance relative to an external focus of attention (on the movement effects), but the majority of dancers usually adopt an internal focus. It is not clear if the benefits of an external focus are relevant for form-based tasks performed in a ballet. Purpose: Test whether an imagined external focus of attention can improve ballet dancers' performance of a form-based task, the en dehors double pirouette (EDDP). Method: 23 experienced amateurs and 17 professional dancers between 18 and 35 years old performed three EDDP under each of three attentional focus instruction conditions (No Focus, Internal, Imagined External). Order of presentation of Internal and Imagined External focus instructions was blocked and balanced across participants. Movement quality was assessed by three experts with a customized observational scale. Movement kinematics were measured by the angle of inclination of the trunk and inclination of the rotation axis with respect to the global vertical during the EDDP. Results: Movement quality and trunk inclination were significantly different between amateurs and professionals, but the rotation axis inclination was not. No quantitative or qualitative effects of focus were found for the performance of the EDDP across focus conditions. Conclusions: There appears to be no differential effects of using an internal or imagined external focus on the immediate performance of the EDDP for amateur and professional ballet dancers. Personal and task factors might account for the lack of effects.		[Andrade, Carolina M.; de Souza, Thales R.; de Andrade, Andre G. P.; Vaz, Daniela V.] Univ Fed Minas Gerais, Av Pres Antonio Carlos 6627,Campus Pampulha, BR-31270901 Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil; [Mazoni, Alysson F.] Univ Estadual Campinas, Cidade Univ Zeferino Vaz, Campinas, Brazil; [Vaz, Daniela V.] Univ Fed Minas Gerais, Av Pres Antonio Carlos 6627,Campus Pampulha, BR-31270901 Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil								10							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000512915400001	34	Article; Article		
J	Hibbing, Paul R.; Bassett, David R.; Crouter, Scott E.								Modifying Accelerometer Cut-Points Affects Criterion Validity in Simulated Free-Living for Adolescents and Adults								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				91	3			514	524		10.1080/02701367.2019.1688227			JUL 2 2020	2020	Purpose: To assess changes in criterion validity when modifying cut-points for use in different epoch lengths. Method: Simulated free-living data came from 42 adolescents (2-hr each) and 29 adults (6-hr each) wearing a hip-worn accelerometer and portable indirect calorimeter (Cosmed K4b(2)). K4b(2) data were classified as sedentary behavior (SB), light physical activity (LPA), or moderate-to-vigorous physical activity (MVPA), and compared to estimates from accelerometer data processed with three youth and three adult cut-points in six epoch lengths (1, 5, 10, 15, 30, and 60-s). A cut-point of 100 counts per minute was used for all SB estimates. Results: For both adolescents and adults, SB estimates in all but 60-s epochs were significantly higher than the criterion, by 18.4%-78.4% (all p < .02). CPS had varied effects on youth LPA, ranging from favorable effects for one cut-point (1.9% underestimation in 1-s epochs, versus 40.2% overestimation in the originally-calibrated epoch length; p p = .91, respectively) to unfavorable effects for another (41.8% underestimation in 1-s epochs, versus 9.8% underestimation in the originally-calibrated epoch length; p p = .39, respectively). Adult LPA estimates in 30-s or 60-s epochs were closest to the criterion (within 5.2%-37.3%, p = .0001-0.49). Youth MVPA estimates in 60-s epochs were closest to the criterion (within 9.5%-53.2%, all p < .05), whereas adult MVPA estimates in 1-s epochs were closest to the criterion (within 6.6%-34.2%, p = .02-0.59). Conclusion: Cut-point modification is not universally beneficial, and thus it is not recommended.		[Hibbing, Paul R.; Bassett, David R.; Crouter, Scott E.] Univ Tennessee, 307 HPER Bldg,1914 Andy Holt Ave, Knoxville, TN 37996 USA; [Hibbing, Paul R.] Univ Tennessee, 307 HPER Bldg,1914 Andy Holt Ave, Knoxville, TN 37996 USA								12							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000512914300001	35	Article; Article		
J	Baker, Hayden P.; Volchenko, Elan; Athiviraham, Aravind								Does the MLB's collision at home plate rule change prevent concussion injuries in catchers?								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				48	3			354	357		10.1080/00913847.2020.1718565			JUL 2 2020	2020	Background: In 2013, appropriate conduct of both the catcher and baserunner at the home plate was outlined with the addition of rule 7.13. This new rule was mandated in order to protect athletes from 'egregious' collisions at the home plate. The aims of this study were to quantify the impact of the Collision at Home Plate rule on concussion rates among MLB catchers, and time spent on the DL with concussion symptoms, before and after rule 7.13 was officially enacted (2012-2013, 2015-2016). Hypothesis: We hypothesized that the rate of concussions suffered by MLB catchers would be significantly lower after the enactment of rule 7.13 and that there would be no significant difference in time spent on the DL between the two cohorts. Study design: Retrospective Cohort Methods: The data was compiled using publicly available information extracted from MLB transactions. All MLB catchers placed on the DL for a concussion injury from 2012 to 2013 and 2015 to 2016 were included in this study. Relative risk (with 95% CI) was calculated by using the number of injuries per 1,0000 athletic exposures for the 2 seasons under the rule change (2015-2016) versus the previous 2 seasons (2012-2013). Results: Among catchers the relative risk of concussion per 1000 athletic exposures was 0.31 (95% CI, 0.11-0.85) when comparing the 2 seasons after the introduction of rule 7.13 (2015, 2016) versus the 2 seasons before (2012, 2013). There was no significant statistical difference in average time catchers spent on the DL for concussion injuries when comparing the 2012 and 2013 seasons versus 2015 and 2016. Conclusions: The MLB's rule limiting home plate collisions significantly reduced the number of concussions suffered by MLB catchers.		[Baker, Hayden P.; Athiviraham, Aravind] Univ Chicago, Dept Orthopaed Surg, 5758 S Maryland Ave,Dept 4B, Chicago, IL 60637 USA; [Volchenko, Elan] Univ Illinois, Coll Med, Chicago, IL USA; [Baker, Hayden P.] Univ Chicago, Dept Orthopaed Surg, 5758 S Maryland Ave,Dept 4B, Chicago, IL 60637 USA								4							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000512410600001	27	Article; Article		
J	Cho, Inje; Kim, Minseong; Kaplanidou, Kiki								The role of title sponsor's philanthropy and team authenticity on fan identity and citizenship behaviors								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				21	1			148	169		10.1108/IJSMS-09-2018-0093			FEB 3 2020	2020	Purpose The purpose of this paper is to examine the relationships between sport team authenticity, fan identity and citizenship behaviors, and how the link between sport team authenticity and fan identity is moderated by sponsor philanthropy. Design/methodology/approach A web survey was distributed to baseball fans in an online community in South Korea. A total of 383 valid answered questionnaires were collected and tested with confirmatory factor analysis and structural equation modeling. Findings The findings suggested interrelationships between sport teams' brand authenticity and fan identity and between fan identity and citizenship behavior. This work also confirms the moderating effect of a title sponsor's philanthropic activities on the relationship between sport team authenticity and fan identity. Originality/value The findings contribute to the literature by demonstrating the role of title sponsor's philanthropic behavior on the sport industry. The relative importance of the team's authenticity (congruency and fan orientation) for fan identity was increased when the perception of the sponsor's philanthropy was high.		[Cho, Inje; Kaplanidou, Kiki] Univ Florida, Coll Hlth & Human Performance, Dept Sport Management, Gainesville, FL 32611 USA; [Kim, Minseong] Louisiana State Univ, Dept Management & Mkt, Coll Business, Shreveport, LA 71105 USA; [Cho, Inje] Univ Florida, Coll Hlth & Human Performance, Dept Sport Management, Gainesville, FL 32611 USA								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000509297100008	79	Article; Article		
J	Nichols, Bridget Satinover; Cobbs, Joe; Tyler, B. David								Rival team effects in cause-related sports marketing								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				21	1			23	45		10.1108/IJSMS-01-2019-0010			FEB 3 2020	2020	Purpose The purpose of this paper is to examine how reference to a rival or favorite sports team within cause-related sports marketing (CRSM) campaigns affects fans' intentions to support the cause. The purpose of the studies is to assess the perils of featuring a specific team in league-wide activations of cause-related marketing. Design/methodology/approach The research comprises three experiments. Study 1 employs CRSM advertising to test fans' responses when rival or hometown team imagery is featured by Major League Baseball (MLB). Studies 2 and 3 utilize a press release to activate a cause partnership in MLB and the National Basketball Association (NBA) and assess the potential influence of team involvement and schadenfreude toward the rival team. Findings Contrary to previous research, results demonstrate that rival team presence in league-wide activation can reduce intentions to support the cause effort across both leagues, but not in all circumstances. The influence of rival team exposure on perceived sincerity is moderated by team involvement with the cause in MLB, but not the NBA. However, sincerity consistently enhances cause support across all studies. While conditional effects of schadenfreude are noted, it is not a significant moderator of cause support. Originality/value These studies produce results that differ from the limited prior research within the domain of league-wide CRSM, and therefore advance the conversation regarding how best to activate such campaigns.		[Nichols, Bridget Satinover; Cobbs, Joe] Northern Kentucky Univ, Haile US Bank Coll Business, Highland Hts, KY 41076 USA; [Tyler, B. David] Western Carolina Univ, Coll Business, Cullowhee, NC 28723 USA; [Cobbs, Joe] Northern Kentucky Univ, Haile US Bank Coll Business, Highland Hts, KY 41076 USA								9							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000509297100002	67	Article; Article		
J	Kim, Daehwan; Ko, Yongjae; Lee, J. Lucy; Kim, Yong Cheol								The impact of CSR-linked sport sponsorship on consumers' reactions to service failures								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				21	1			70	90		10.1108/IJSMS-01-2019-0011			FEB 3 2020	2020	Purpose Drawing on the corporate association framework and attribution theory, the purpose of this paper is twofold: first, to examine the shield effects of CSR-linked sport sponsorship on consumer attitudes toward a sponsor, attribution patterns in a sponsor's service failure and repurchase intentions and second, to investigate the halo effect of CSR-linked sport sponsorship on corporate ability (CA) associations and the relationship between CA associations and consequential variables in the context of service failure. Design/methodology/approach A scenario-based two-factor (sponsorship types: baseline vs sport sponsorship vs CSR-linked sport sponsorship x service failure types: flight delay vs cancellation) experimental design was employed. Findings The results indicate that CSR-linked sport sponsorship outperforms non-CSR sport sponsorship in forming CSR association and developing CA association. Both CSR and CA associations are found to positively influence the consumer's attitude toward a service provider. Consumers with positive attitudes attribute the sponsor's service failure to external factors, leading to repurchase intention after a service failure. Originality/value This study connects two fields of research, service failure and sport sponsorship, thereby providing evidence on how CSR-linked sport sponsorship can play a shield role in the context of service failure and whether CSR-linked sport sponsorship can be a proactive strategy for service providers in industries where service failures are inevitable. Additionally, this study provides empirical evidence on whether CSR-linked sponsorship can lead consumers to perceive service quality as "doing right leads to doing well" by creating a halo effect.		[Kim, Daehwan] Seoul Natl Univ, Inst Sport Sci, Seoul, South Korea; [Ko, Yongjae] Univ Florida, Dept Sport Management, Gainesville, FL USA; [Lee, J. Lucy] Bowling Green State Univ, Sch Human Movement Sport & Leisure Studies, Bowling Green, OH 43403 USA; [Kim, Yong Cheol] Catholic Univ Korea, Dept Integrated Strateg Commun, Seoul, South Korea; [Lee, J. Lucy] Bowling Green State Univ, Sch Human Movement Sport & Leisure Studies, Bowling Green, OH 43403 USA								23							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000509297100004	85	Article; Article		
J	Jang, Wooyoung (William); Byon, Kevin K.								Antecedents and consequence associated with esports gameplay								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				21	1			1	22		10.1108/IJSMS-01-2019-0013			FEB 3 2020	2020	Purpose Grounded in the Unified Theory of Acceptance and Use of Technology 2 (UTAUT2) (Venkatesh et al., 2012), the purpose of this paper is to examine the antecedents and consequence associated with esports gameplay by proposing the Esports Consumption (ESC) model, including six determinants of esports gameplay intention (hedonic motivation, habit, price value, perceived effort expectancy, social influence and flow) and behavioral consequence (media consumption intention of esports events) that were linked to esports gameplay. Design/methodology/approach The proposed model was tested using the data (n=348) that were collected from esports consumers at two points in time. Per the technology adoption theories (i.e. TAM, UTAUT2), the authors incorporated a temporal separation when measuring the relationship between playing intention and playing behavior. For the purpose of data analysis, CFA and SEM were used to examine the hypothesized model. Findings As a result, four determinants (i.e. hedonic motivation, price value, effort expectancy and flow) were identified as the critical factors influencing esports consumers' esports gameplay intention. Furthermore, the bootstrap method procedure verified that a sequential relationship among esports gameplay intention, esports gameplay and media consumption of esports events. Originality/value Theoretically, it has developed a research model that explains various triggers resulting from esports gameplay intention, which is causally linked to esports gameplay and media consumption behavior. Practically, the primary implication has to do with providing information regarding esports consumers' playing behavior with esports game publishers, which organize esports events and leagues.		[Jang, Wooyoung (William); Byon, Kevin K.] Indiana Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Bloomington, IN 47405 USA; [Byon, Kevin K.] Indiana Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Bloomington, IN 47405 USA								79							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000509297100001	51	Article; Article		
J	Edwards, Kate Mihevc								Considerations for the Postpartum Runner								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				42	1			45	52		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000453			FEB 2020	2020	Today, there are over 35 million runners in the United States and greater than half are women. The psychological, physiological, and biomechanical differences between male and female runners are well cited; however, there is little guidance provided to health care providers including running and strength coaches about how to transition runners back to running postpartum. This article can serve as a reference for understanding the unique challenges female runners face postpartum and give clinicians the knowledge to manage the athlete's expectations and training progression.		[Edwards, Kate Mihevc] Emory Univ, Sch Med, Dept Phys Therapy, Atlanta, GA 30303 USA; [Edwards, Kate Mihevc] Emory Univ, Sch Med, Dept Phys Therapy, Atlanta, GA 30303 USA								6							Sport Sciences	WOS:000524986400006	55	Article; Article		
J	Cheuvront, Samuel N.; Sollanek, Kurt J.								Considerations for Standardizing Fluid Station Practices Among Road Races								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				42	1			39	44		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000482			FEB 2020	2020	Road race event planners have the paramount task of providing runners with appropriate access to fluid along race courses. Important variables for consideration include weather conditions, participant numbers, and racing distances. In an effort to standardize practices among road races, this review describes novel improvements to the traditional approach for estimating total fluid needs and fluid station numbers. Recommendations for fluid station numbers and positioning are given to serve as a starting point for standardizing fluid station practices among road races.		[Cheuvront, Samuel N.] Sports Sci Synergy LLC, Franklin, MA 02038 USA; [Sollanek, Kurt J.] Sonoma State Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Rohnert Pk, CA 94928 USA; [Cheuvront, Samuel N.] Sports Sci Synergy LLC, Franklin, MA 02038 USA								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:000524986400005	19	Article; Article		
J	Castellani, John W.								Running in Cold Weather: Exercise Performance and Cold Injury Risk								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				42	1			83	89		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000502			FEB 2020	2020	Runners compete and train in diverse cold-weather environments that may impact performance and cause cold injuries. This article provides an overview of cold-weather effects on running performance. It also presents the cold-weather injuries likely to occur in runners as well as provides risk management guidance to mitigate susceptibility to cold-weather injuries.		[Castellani, John W.] US Army Res Inst Environm Med, Thermal & Mt Med Div, Natick, MA 01760 USA; [Castellani, John W.] US Army Res Inst Environm Med, Thermal & Mt Med Div, Natick, MA 01760 USA								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:000524986400011	35	Article; Article		
J	Tenforde, Adam S.; Roberts, William O.; Krabak, Brian J.; Davis, Irene S.; Fredericson, Michael; Luke, Anthony C.; Ackerman, Kathryn E.								Recommendations to Optimize Health in Youth Runners								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				42	1			76	82		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000504			FEB 2020	2020	Youth running is defined as participation below age 18. Jumping/multidirectional loading sports (soccer, basketball) may optimize bone health. Psychological development requires monitoring to reduce risk of injuries and burnout. Adequate energy availability is essential for health; screening for disordered eating and optimizing nutrition is important. Injuries during growth spurts are best addressed by identifying the physical maturity of the runner and conventional treatment. Appropriate start of competition and competition distance should be individualized rather than using age-based recommendations and requires careful monitoring. Promoting foot strength and reducing landing impacts may lower injury risk.		[Tenforde, Adam S.; Davis, Irene S.] Harvard Med Sch, Dept Phys Med & Rehabil, Spaulding Natl Running Ctr, Spaulding Rehabil Hosp, Charlestown, MA 02129 USA; [Roberts, William O.] Univ Minnesota, Med Sch, Dept Family Med, Minneapolis, MA USA; [Krabak, Brian J.] Univ Washington, Rehabil Orthoped & Sports Med, Seattle, WA 98195 USA; [Krabak, Brian J.] Seattle Childrens Sports Med, Seattle, WA 98195 USA; [Fredericson, Michael] Stanford Univ, Sch Med, Dept Orthoped Surg, Stanford, CA 94305 USA; [Luke, Anthony C.] UCSF Dept Orthoped, UCSF Dept Family & Community Med, UCSF Primary Care Sports Med, San Francisco, CA USA; [Ackerman, Kathryn E.] Harvard Med Sch, Boston Childrens Hosp, Div Sports Med, Boston, MA 02115 USA; [Ackerman, Kathryn E.] Harvard Med Sch, Boston Childrens Hosp, Div Endocrinol, Boston, MA 02115 USA; [Ackerman, Kathryn E.] Harvard Med Sch, Neuroendocrine Unit, Massachusetts Gen Hosp, Boston, MA 02115 USA; [Tenforde, Adam S.] Harvard Med Sch, Dept Phys Med & Rehabil, Spaulding Natl Running Ctr, Spaulding Rehabil Hosp, Charlestown, MA 02129 USA								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:000524986400010	58	Article; Article		
J	Fetters, K. Aleisha								Exploring the Role of the Lateral Gluteal Muscles in Running: Implications for Training								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				42	1			60	66		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000486			FEB 2020	2020	Gluteal-strengthening exercises are widely used for improving running performance. However, as running occurs primarily in the sagittal plane, such strength exercises have focused on the gluteus maximus and its role in producing ground reaction forces as a hip extensor. Meanwhile, strength deficits in the lateral gluteal muscles, the medius and minimus, are common among runners. This article will explore the role of the lateral gluteal muscles in running kinematics, performance, and injury, with implications for strength and conditioning professionals, sports medicine specialists, and physical therapists. Recommendations for strengthening the gluteus medius and minimus in runners will follow.										0							Sport Sciences	WOS:000524986400008	27	Article; Article		
J	Harris, Julie; Peterson, Janet T.								Eating Disorders in Male Runners								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				42	1			53	59		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000509			FEB 2020	2020	This article aims to evaluate current literature related to the prevalence and consequences of eating disorders (EDs) among male runners. Historically, research was disproportionately aimed at female runners, hindering the assessment and clinical management of EDs in male runners. This literature review provides coaches with a deeper understanding of EDs in male runners. In addition, the physiological and psychological consequences attributed to a diagnosis of an ED in male runners are discussed. Suggestions for early identification and coaching strategies are provided. Future research is encouraged to provide a deeper understanding of the prevalence and significance of EDs in male runners.		[Harris, Julie] StayWell, Yardley, PA 19067 USA; [Peterson, Janet T.] Linfield Coll, Hlth & Human Performance, Mcminnville, OR USA; [Harris, Julie] StayWell, Yardley, PA 19067 USA								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:000524986400007	54	Article; Article		
J	Iserbyt, P.; Coolkens, R.; Loockx, J.; Vanluyten, K.; Martens, J.; Ward, P.								Task Adaptations as a Function of Content Knowledge: A Functional Analysis								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				91	4			539	550		10.1080/02701367.2019.1687809			OCT 1 2020	2020	Purpose: The purpose of the study was to investigate how teachers' pedagogical content knowledge (PCK) in the form of task adaptations differed as a function of content knowledge. Method: Participants were three elementary school teachers (two females and one male) and their students (n = 66). Functional analysis of instructional events (i.e., adaptations) between teachers and students was used to examine PCK before and after a content knowledge workshop in crawl swimming. The appropriateness of the adaptations was measured and all data were collected through live observation by trained observers. Results: All teachers increased their average number of task adaptations per lesson after the content knowledge workshop. Appropriateness of adaptations increased substantially for two teachers but decreased for one teacher. Discussion/Conclusion: Functional analysis of student-teacher interactions is a valuable tool to examine teachers' PCK. The interrelationship between student- and teacher behavior can be modified through a content knowledge workshop.		[Iserbyt, P.; Coolkens, R.; Loockx, J.; Vanluyten, K.; Martens, J.] Katholieke Univ Leuven, Leuven, Belgium; [Coolkens, R.] Univ Coll PXL, Hasselt, Belgium; [Martens, J.] Univ Coll Thomas More, Mechelen, Belgium; [Ward, P.] Ohio State Univ, Columbus, OH 43210 USA; [Iserbyt, P.] Katholieke Univ Leuven, Dept Movement Sci, Phys Act & Sports Res Grp, Tervuursevest 101 Box 1500, B-3001 Heverlee, Belgium								22							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000511832600001	37	Article; Article		
J	Arede, Jorge; Ferreira, Antonio Paulo; Esteves, Pedro; Gonzalo-Skok, Oliver; Leite, Nuno								Train Smarter, Play More: Insights about Preparation and Game Participation in Youth National Team								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				91	4			583	593		10.1080/02701367.2019.1693012			OCT 1 2020	2020	Purpose: The aim of this study was to analyze the relationship between physical preparation, training sessions (TS) and friendly matches' (FM) demands, and playing status during European Championship (EC). Method: Twelve under-16 (U-16) basketball players performed physical (jumping, agility, aerobic fitness, and lower limb asymmetry index [ASI]) tests prior to attending the national team training camp. External training load was assessed using the WIMU PRO System put in place during TS (n = 19) and FM (n = 3), integrating the national team preparation. Perceptual response (RPE), muscle soreness (DOMS), and game-related statistics were also collected. Playing status during the U-16 EC (starters vs nonstarters) were taken into consideration to analyze the between-subjects differences across all variables. A stepwise discriminant analysis was computed to identify the construct that best differentiated the players' playing status (starters vs nonstarters) during the EC. Results: The starters were characterized by lower movement demands in both TS (ES: -0.02 to -1.26) and FM (ES: -0.03 to -1.94), however, outscored nonstarters in most FM-related statistics (ES: 0.10 to 3.62), with exception to blocks and rebounds. The number of high-intensity decelerations during FM (p <= .05), but also training DOMS, number of steals, efficiency, minutes during FM, and countermovement jump (CMJ) (p <= .01) substantially discriminated the playing status over the course of the EC. Conclusion: Game-related statistics obtained in FM seem to be a determinant aspect that increases the probability to be the starter during the EC.		[Arede, Jorge; Esteves, Pedro; Leite, Nuno] Univ Tras Os Montes & Alto Douro, CIDESD, Vila Real, Portugal; [Ferreira, Antonio Paulo] Univ Lisbon, Lisbon, Portugal; [Esteves, Pedro] Polytech Inst Guarda, Guarda, Portugal; [Gonzalo-Skok, Oliver] Univ San Jorge, Zaragoza, Spain; [Arede, Jorge] Univ Tras Os Montes & Alto Douro, CIDESD, Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev, Apartado 202, P-5001911 Vila Real, Portugal								20							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000511576800001	36	Article; Article		
J	Burke, Shaunna; Utleya, Andrea; Belchamber, Caroline; McDowall, Louise								Physical Activity in Hospice Care: A Social Ecological Perspective to Inform Policy and Practice								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				91	3			500	513		10.1080/02701367.2019.1687808			JUL 2 2020	2020	Purpose: Physical activity (PA) is increasingly being used in hospice care as a rehabilitation strategy to help patients manage symptoms and improve quality of life. However, little is known about how to design and deliver interventions that promote uptake and maintenance of PA in this population. Single-level approaches (i.e., psychological models) have primarily been used to study factors that influence PA engagement among patients with advanced, incurable disease and therefore offer a limited perspective on strategies that target changes beyond the individual level. This study explored perspectives on factors perceived important for influencing PA participation in hospice care using a social-ecological framework. Method: Patients (n = 27) and health providers (n = 5) from multiple hospices (n = 5) across the UK were involved in this study. Data were collected using focus group and individual semi-structured interviews and analyzed using a thematic framework approach. Results: Eight main themes were perceived to be important for influencing PA engagement at the individual, interpersonal, physical environment, community, and policy levels including: (1) PA as therapy; (2) apprehension about PA-induced harm; (3) group-based PA with peers; (4) supervised PA sessions; (5) limited facilities and access; (6) patient-centered approach; (7) lack of a strong PA culture and; (8) absence of a policy and guidance for PA provision. Conclusion: Hospice-based PA interventions that target multiple levels simultaneously may be more effective at successfully changing and sustaining patients' PA behavior. Study findings provide evidence-based recommendations that may facilitate the effective delivery of PA interventions in hospice care.		[Burke, Shaunna; Utleya, Andrea; McDowall, Louise] Univ Leeds, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England; [Belchamber, Caroline] Sue Ryder, London, England; [Burke, Shaunna] Univ Leeds, Sch Biomed Sci, Fac Biol Sci, Leeds LS2 9JT, W Yorkshire, England								15							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000511575800001	49	Article; Article		
J	Alves, Danilo L.; Cruz, Ramon; Bara, Crystina L. B. P.; Osiecki, Raul; Lima, Jorge R. P.; De-Oliveira, Fernando R.								Pre-planned Vs. Executed Real-Time Pacing Strategies during 3-km Race: Role of Rating Perceived Exertion								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				91	3			469	477		10.1080/02701367.2019.1683503			JUL 2 2020	2020	Purpose: The aim of the study was to verify the agreement between preplanned and executed pacing during a 3-km race and determine whether adjustments are mediated by the rating of perceived exertion (RPE). Method: Thirteen young runners (eight males and five females, 17.5 +/- 2.1 and 17.0 +/- 1.6 years old, respectively) with national and international experience participated in the study. Before the simulated competition, the athletes informed of their preplanned pacing for the distance through a dashboard with the most common pacing profiles and were also asked to complete a questionnaire communicating their preplanned RPE for each lap of race. During 3-km, heart rate (HR), executed RPE and lap time were recorded. Results: Our results showed no significant association between preplanned and executed pacing (p = .631). Moreover, no significant difference between preplanned and executed RPE was found, including the analysis by laps and phases. RPE and HR increased over time during the race (p < .001). Conclusions: The athletes changed from their preplanned pacing, however, their RPE were similar in the preplanned and executed during the 3-km race. These findings indicate that the RPE could be responsible for adjustments in the pacing strategy.		[Alves, Danilo L.; Bara, Crystina L. B. P.; Osiecki, Raul] Fed Univ Parana UFPR, Curitiba, Parana, Brazil; [Cruz, Ramon] Univ Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Lima, Jorge R. P.] Fed Univ Juiz de Fora UFJF, Juiz De Fora, Brazil; [De-Oliveira, Fernando R.] Fed Univ Lavras UFLA, Lavras, Brazil; [Alves, Danilo L.] Univ Fed Parana UFPR, Dept Phys Educ, Exercise Performance Res Grp, Ctr Estudos Performance Fis CEPEFIS,Jardim Bot, Rua Coracao de Maria 92, BR-80210132 Curitiba, Parana, Brazil								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000511300200001	39	Article; Article		
J	Groffik, Dorota; Mitas, Josef; Jakubec, Lukas; Svozil, Zbynek; Fromel, Karel								Adolescents' Physical Activity in Education Systems Varying in the Number of Weekly Physical Education Lessons								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				91	4			551	561		10.1080/02701367.2019.1688754			OCT 1 2020	2020	Purpose: School physical activity (SPA) is a significant component of daily PA. We investigated differences in PA between boys and girls in two differing education systems-Poland and the Czech Republic-which have four and two physical education lessons (PELs) per week, respectively. Method: This project was conducted from 2012-2016 at 17 Polish and 23 Czech secondary schools (N = 921; mean age = 16.2 +/- 0.7 years). ActiTrainer accelerometers were used to monitor participants' PA and heart rate during school days. Weekly PA was measured using pedometers. Subjective levels of weekly PA were self-reported on the International Physical Activity Questionnaire-long form. Results: The Polish education system enabled adolescents to meet the recommendations for moderate-to-vigorous PA more likely than did the Czech system. SPA also represented a higher portion of daily PA in the Polish (vs. Czech system); however, the differences in total daily step count between Polish and Czech adolescents were non-significant. SPA accounted for 30-37% of the daily PA (as measured by step count) of Polish girls (23-30% of Czech girls) and 28-39% of Polish boys (25-37% of Czech boys). Conclusions: Participation in PELs was associated with a higher rate of meeting SPA recommendations in both countries. Compared with the Czech Republic, more PELs in the Polish education system was associated with increased daily vigorous PA and a greater portion of SPA in daily PA. Differences in overall daily and weekly moderate-to-vigorous PA between Polish and Czech adolescents were non-significant.		[Groffik, Dorota; Fromel, Karel] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ, Katowice, Poland; [Mitas, Josef; Jakubec, Lukas; Svozil, Zbynek; Fromel, Karel] Palacky Univ Olomouc, Olomouc, Czech Republic; [Jakubec, Lukas] Palacky Univ Olomouc, Inst Act Lifestyle, Fac Phys Culture, Trida Miru 117, Olomouc 77111, Czech Republic								29							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000509279300001	58	Article; Article		
J	O'Connor, Siobhan; Huseyin, Oktay R.; Whyte, Enda F.; Lacey, Peter								A 2-year prospective study of injuries and illness in an elite national junior tennis program								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				48	3			342	348		10.1080/00913847.2020.1714512			JUL 2 2020	2020	Objectives: Injury and illness in elite national tennis programs can limit players' current and future performance. This study aimed to prospectively examine injuries and illnesses in an Irish elite national junior tennis program over 2 years. Methods: All injuries and illnesses that led to missed tennis training and match play in the Irish national junior tennis program (n = 82) over 2 years were collected in a prospective cohort study. Injury and illness prevalence and rates were calculated and reported with respect to gender and age group. Descriptive statistics were calculated for the type of illness and the region, location, type, nature, mechanism, and severity of injury. Results: Over the course of the study, 54% of players became injured, with 9.0% receiving more than one injury. Injuries were most frequent in the under-16 age group (12.93 injuries per 1,000 athletic exposures), compared to younger age groups (4.13 [U10], 3.43 [U12], 4.63 [U14] injuries per 1,000 athletic exposures) and seniors (1.98 injuries per 1,000 athletic exposures). Lower (49.5%) and upper limb (35.9%) injuries were frequent and mostly occurred due to overextension (35.9%). No significant differences in males and females injury rates were noted. However, females received a greater proportion of shoulder injuries (23.5% vs 10.9%), with more knee injuries in males (29.1% vs 7.8%). 0.52 illnesses per 1,000 athletic exposures were reported, with respiratory/cardiorespiratory (43.5%) most frequent. Injuries lead to greater average sessions lost (6.77 +/- 11.56) than illness (1.83 +/- 1.11). Conclusion: These findings can inform injury and illness preventative strategies to minimize absence from tennis play and should be prioritized in the under-16 group. Due to the different injury profiles between males and females, tailored preventative programs should be developed for males and females individually.		[O'Connor, Siobhan; Whyte, Enda F.; Lacey, Peter] Dublin City Univ, Sch Hlth & Human Performance, Dublin 9, Ireland; [Huseyin, Oktay R.] Dublin City Univ, Natl Tennis Ctr, Tennis Ireland, Dublin, Ireland; [O'Connor, Siobhan] Dublin City Univ, Sch Hlth & Human Performance, Dublin 9, Ireland								10							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000508502100001	33	Article; Article		
J	Vernon, Alexander; Joyce, Christopher; Banyard, Harry G.								Readiness to train: Return to baseline strength and velocity following strength or power training								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				15	2			204	211	1747954119900120	10.1177/1747954119900120			APR 2020	2020	This study investigated the return to baseline of movement velocity and maximal strength following a strength-orientated session and power-orientated session in the free-weight back-squat performed with maximal concentric velocity. Fourteen strength-trained males completed a strength-orientated session (five sets of five repetitions @80% of a one-repetition maximum) and a power-orientated session (three sets of six repetitions @50% one-repetition maximum ) in a randomised order over two weeks (e.g. strength week 1, power week 2). The back-squat was then performed with loads of 20%, 40%, 60%, 80%, 90% and 100% one-repetition maximum at 24, 48, 72 and 96 h following the strength and power exercise sessions to assess return to baseline of squat velocity and maximal strength. Dependent variables included one-repetition maximum, back-squat mean velocity and peak velocity and countermovement jump peak velocity. Meaningful changes ((effect size) >= -0.60) were reported for mean velocity and peak velocity at loads >= 60% one-repetition maximum at 24 and 48 h after the strength-orientated session. Trivial to small (effect size <= -0.59) differences were reported for squat velocities following the power-orientated session. Only trivial to small effect size differences were observed for countermovement jump peak velocity and one-repetition maximum at all time points following both sessions. Squat velocity (mean velocity and peak velocity) across the load-velocity profile had recovered at 72 h following the strength-orientated session. However, the return to baseline of squat velocity (mean velocity and peak velocity) did not coincide with the return to baseline of one-repetition maximum or countermovement jump peak velocity. Therefore, measuring and monitoring meaningful changes in velocity may be a more valid and practical alternative in determining full recovery and readiness to train.		[Vernon, Alexander; Joyce, Christopher] Univ Notre Dame Australia, Sch Hlth Sci, Fremantle Campus, Fremantle, WA, Australia; [Banyard, Harry G.] Swinburne Univ Technol, Dept Hlth & Med Sci, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Joyce, Christopher] Univ Notre Dame Australia, Sch Hlth Sci, Fremantle Campus, Fremantle, WA, Australia								27							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000506970400001	25	Article; Article		
J	O'Connor, Siobhan; Whyte, Enda; Fortington, Lauren								Are Irish Gaelic Athletic Association clubs prepared to use an AED following a sudden cardiac arrest? A cross-sectional survey								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				48	3			320	326		10.1080/00913847.2019.1704666			JUL 2 2020	2020	Objectives: To identify the availability and accessibility of AEDs in Irish GAA clubs and the knowledge, willingness, and confidence of club members to use AEDs in a medical emergency. Methods: A self-report survey was completed anonymously by GAA club members (n = 267). The survey captured demographic information, previous formal AED training, awareness of AED access in their local GAA club and knowledge, confidence, and willingness to use an AED in a medical emergency and awareness of a written club emergency action plan (EAP). Descriptive statistics were used to examine survey responses and independent samples t-tests to compare differences in outcome scores between those who have or have not completed formal AED training and those that have or have not studied toward or worked in a health-care provision role. Results: Three in every five GAA club members reported that their club owned an AED and almost half of all respondents had access to a club AED in the event of a medical emergency in their club. Formal training was noted by 53.2% of respondents; this group demonstrated significantly better knowledge, confidence, and willingness (p < 0.0001) than those without. Few (7%) respondents knew where the club EAP was or how to access it. Conclusion: To ensure the chain of survival works effectively it is essential that an AED is available, is accessible, and that club members know its location, know when to use it, and are willing and confident to use it. GAA clubs should design an individual emergency action plan and disseminate it widely among club members. Formal AED training should be encouraged among club members and at least one trained member should be present during all club activities.		[O'Connor, Siobhan; Whyte, Enda] Dublin City Univ, Sch Hlth & Human Performance, A144B, Dublin 9, Ireland; [Fortington, Lauren] Edith Cowan Univ, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, Exercise Med Res Inst, Joondalup, Australia; [O'Connor, Siobhan] Dublin City Univ, Sch Hlth & Human Performance, A144B, Dublin 9, Ireland								5							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000506640200001	21	Article; Article		
J	Maszczyk, Adam; Dobrakowski, Pawel; Nitychoruk, Magdalena; Zak, Marcin; Kowalczyk, Magdalena; Toborek, Michal								The Effect of Neurofeedback Training on the Visual Processing Efficiency in Judo Athletes								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				71	1			219	227		10.2478/hukin-2019-0097			JAN 2020	2020	This study aimed to analyse the effect of neurofeedback (NFB) training based on beta-wave amplification and theta-wave inhibition on the visual processing efficiency of judo athletes. The study examined 12 male athletes from the national team of the Polish Judo Association. Participants were divided into the experimental (EG, n = 6) and the control group (CG, n = 6). The NFB training protocol was performed and recorded using a Deymed Truscan system with 24 active channels. The effect of NFB training was examined by computer-based simple and complex reaction tests and selected tests of the Vienna Test System (VST). One - way ANOVA showed statistically significant differences between the CG and the EG in theta and beta values after the first and the second cycle of training. There were statistically significant differences between the CG and the EG in the results of reaction speed tests after individual cycles of training. The highest reduction in simple reaction time was obtained after the second training cycle, when training was performed every second day and lasted four minutes.		[Maszczyk, Adam; Nitychoruk, Magdalena; Zak, Marcin; Kowalczyk, Magdalena] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Inst Sport Sci, Mikolowska 72a Str, PL-40065 Katowice, Poland; [Dobrakowski, Pawel] Humanitas Univ Sosnowiec, Psychol Inst, Sosnowiec, Poland; [Toborek, Michal] Univ Miami, Dept Biochem & Mol Biol, Miller Sch Med, Coral Gables, FL 33124 USA; [Nitychoruk, Magdalena] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Inst Sport Sci, Mikolowska 72a Str, PL-40065 Katowice, Poland								20							Sport Sciences	WOS:000513916900019	25	Article; Article		
J	dos Santos, Fernando Garbeloto; Pacheco, Matheus Maia; Basso, Luciano; Bastos, Flavio Henrique; Tani, Go								Development and Validation of a Checklist to Assess Proficient Performance of Basketball Straight Speed Dribbling Skill								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				71	1			21	31		10.2478/hukin-2019-0073			JAN 2020	2020	The aim of this study was to develop and validate a checklist to assess proficient performance of basketball straight speed dribbling skill. The sample was composed of 100 children and adolescents between 7 and 15 years of age with and without structured practice in basketball. The validation process tested the validity domain, decision, tendencies, reliability, responsiveness, and objectivity. The results show that the checklist contains criteria that represent the speed dribbling skill and is sensible to distinguish between different proficiency levels of performance. The results also expressed high reliability and objectivity (intra and inter-rater). In light of the findings, we concluded that the checklist can be used to reliably analyze performance and evaluate the process of learning and development of the straight speed dribbling skill.		[dos Santos, Fernando Garbeloto; Basso, Luciano; Bastos, Flavio Henrique; Tani, Go] Univ Sao Paulo, Sch Phys Educ & Sport, Prof Mello Moraes 65, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Pacheco, Matheus Maia] Univ Groningen, Ctr Human Movement Sci, Groningen, Netherlands; [dos Santos, Fernando Garbeloto] Univ Sao Paulo, Sch Phys Educ & Sport, Prof Mello Moraes 65, Sao Paulo, Brazil								11							Sport Sciences	WOS:000513916900003	36	Article; Article		
J	Hermassi, Souhail; Laudner, Kevin; Schwesig, Rene								The Effects of Circuit Strength Training on the Development of Physical Fitness and Performance-Related Variables in Handball Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				71	1			191	203		10.2478/hukin-2019-0083			JAN 2020	2020	The purpose of this study was to determine the effects of 12 weeks of circuit training on physical fitness in handball players. Subjects were randomly divided into a circuit strength training group (CT, n = 10) and a control group (CG, n = 9). Training sessions and matches were performed together, but during the 12-week intervention, the experimental group replaced part of the regular regimen with circuit strength training. Measures assessed in both groups before and after the intervention included: the agility T-half Test, the Yo-Yo intermittent recovery test, squat and counter-movement jumps, 15 m and 30 m sprints, and strength tests for the bench press, pull over, and the half squat. The upper limb bench press and pull-over tests along with the lower limb back half squat were performed using a 1-repetition maximum protocol. Based on the intraclass correlation coefficient and excluding the agility T-test (ICC = 0.72), we found excellent relative reliability for all variables (intraclass correlation coefficient range: 0.85-0.96, SEM range: 0.03-3.00). For absolute reliability or coefficients of variation, 71% (5/7) of the variables were excellent (CV < 5%). The circuit strength training group showed significant interaction effects and relevant effect sizes for the 12-week training period (8/9, 89%), and the mean effect size for the CT was markedly higher (d = 1.3, range: 0.41 - 2.76) than in the CG (d = 1.0, range: -0.73 - 0.29). The largest improvements were in the Yo-Yo test (d = 2.76) and the squat jump (d = 2.05). These results show that a 12-week circuit strength training program is an effective method to increase handball-related performance characteristics.		[Hermassi, Souhail] Qatar Univ, Coll Arts & Sci, Sport Sci Program, Doha, Qatar; [Laudner, Kevin] Univ Colorado, Dept Hlth Sci, Colorado Springs, CO 80907 USA; [Schwesig, Rene] Martin Luther Univ Halle Wittenberg, Dept Orthopaed & Trauma Surg, Halle, Germany; [Hermassi, Souhail] Qatar Univ, Coll Arts & Sci, Sport Sci Program, Doha, Qatar								31							Sport Sciences	WOS:000513916900016	28	Article; Article		
J	Moniz, Felipe; Scaglia, Alcides; Sarmento, Hugo; Garcia-Calvo, Tomas; Teoldo, Israel								Effect of an Inside Floater on Soccer Players Tactical Behaviour in Small Sided and Conditioned Games								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				71	1			167	177		10.2478/hukin-2019-0080			JAN 2020	2020	The aim of this study was to verify the effect of an inside floater on soccer players' tactical behaviour in small-sided and conditioned games (SSCGs). The sample comprised 54 Brazilian top-level academy players. The instrument used to assess players' tactical behaviour was the System of Tactical Assessment in Soccer (FUT-SAT). Tactical behaviour was analysed through the number of tactical actions and the percentage of correct actions regarding the core tactical principles of soccer. Repeated measures test was used to compare tactical behaviour between games (SSCGs) with and without an inside floater. Pearson's r was used to verify the effect size of the inside floater on tactical behaviour. As for tactical actions, SSCGs with an inside floater displayed significantly lower means for the tactical principles of penetration (2.76 +/- 1.63; p < .001), delay (6.11 +/- 2.68; p < .018), defensive coverage (1.64 +/- 1.14; p < .001) and significantly higher means for the tactical principle of defensive unity (14.98 +/- 4.57; p < .032). With respect to the percentage of correct actions, SSCGs with an inside floater displayed significantly lower means for all tactical principles, except for offensive coverage (90.5 +/- 18.48; p < 1.000). It was concluded that the inside floater allowed players to modify their behaviour in such a way that they adapted to the constraints imposed by the presence of an inside floater. Furthermore, the inside floater provided more difficulty for players, and thus may be considered an important task constraint to be added in SSCGs.		[Moniz, Felipe; Teoldo, Israel] Univ Fed Vicosa, Ctr Res & Studies Soccer, Dept Phys Educ, Vicosa, MG, Brazil; [Scaglia, Alcides] Univ Estadual Campinas, Sch Appl Sci, Campinas, Brazil; [Sarmento, Hugo] Univ Coimbra, Fac Sport Sci & Phys Educ Portugal, Coimbra, Portugal; [Garcia-Calvo, Tomas] Univ Extremadura, Fac Sport Sci, Caceres, Spain; [Moniz, Felipe] Univ Fed Vicosa, Ctr Res & Studies Soccer, Dept Phys Educ, Vicosa, MG, Brazil								19							Sport Sciences	WOS:000513916900014	37	Article; Article		
J	Madruga-Parera, Marc; Bishop, Chris; Read, Paul; Lake, Jason; Brazier, Jon; Romero-Rodriguez, Daniel								Jumping-based Asymmetries are Negatively Associated with Jump, Change of Direction, and Repeated Sprint Performance, but not Linear Speed, in Adolescent Handball Athletes								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				71	1			47	58		10.2478/hukin-2019-0095			JAN 2020	2020	The aim of the present study was to determine the association of multi-directional jumping asymmetries with measures of physical performance. Forty-two youth handball athletes (age: 16.0 +/- 1.3 years; body height: 174.11 +/- 7.3 cm; body mass: 70.49 +/- 13.3 kg) performed a mid-season fitness test battery consisting of single leg countermovement, lateral and broad jump tests, two change of direction speed (CODS) tests, an 8 x 10 m repeated sprint test, and a 20 m sprint. The Kappa coefficient showed only 'slight' levels of agreement (K range = -0.05 to 0.15), indicating that asymmetries rarely favoured the same side during each of the jump tests. The single leg countermovement jump showed significantly (p = 0.006) larger asymmetries (11.2 +/- 8.4) than the broad jump (6.4 +/- 4.6) and significant correlations were present between jumping asymmetries and jump (r = -0.32 to -0.52), CODS (r = 0.31 to 0.32) and repeated sprint (r = 0.35 to 0.40) performance. The findings of the present study highlight the independent nature of jumping asymmetries and associations with measures of physical performance. Practitioners are encouraged to use multiple tests to detect existing side differences and consider appropriate training interventions for the reduction of inter-limb asymmetries.		[Madruga-Parera, Marc; Romero-Rodriguez, Daniel] Univ Girona, EUSES Hlth & Sports Sci Sch, Girona, Spain; [Bishop, Chris] Middlesex Univ, Fac Sci & Technol, London Sports Inst, London, England; [Read, Paul] Aspetar Orthopaed & Sports Med Hosp, Athlete Hlth & Performance Res Ctr, Doha, Qatar; [Lake, Jason] Univ Chichester, Dept Sport & Exercise Sci, Chichester, W Sussex, England; [Brazier, Jon] Univ Hertfordshire, Sch Life & Med Sci, Dept Psychol & Sports Sci, Hatfield, Herts, England; [Madruga-Parera, Marc] Francesc Macia 65, Salt Girona 17190, Spain								52							Sport Sciences	WOS:000513916900005	40	Article; Article		
J	Teles Bredt, Sarah da Gloria; Chagas, Mauro Heleno; Peixoto, Gustavo Henrique; Menzel, Hans Joachim; Pereira de Andrade, Andre Gustavo								Understanding Player Load: Meanings and Limitations								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				71	1			5	9		10.2478/hukin-2019-0072			JAN 2020	2020	We present a critical reflection on the mechanical variable Player Load, which is based on acceleration data and commonly used in sports. Our motivation to write this paper came from the difficulties that we encountered in the calculation and interpretation of Player Load using our own data, since we did not use the Catapult Sports equipment, which is a merchandise of the company that proposed this variable. We reviewed existing literature in order to understand Player Load better; we found many inconsistencies in PL calculation methods and in the meanings attached to it. Accordingly, this paper presents a brief discussion on the meanings that have been assigned to Player Load, its limitations, and the lack of clear and complete information about Player Load calculation methods. Moreover, the use of arbitrary units and different practical meanings in the literature has associated Player Load with many physical quantities, thereby resulting in difficulties in determining what Player Load measures within the context of sports. It seems that Player Load is related to the magnitude of changes in acceleration, but not the magnitude of acceleration itself. Therefore, coaches and sports scientists should take this information into account when they use Player Load to prescribe and monitor external loads. We concluded that a deeper discussion of Player Load as a descriptor of external load is warranted in the sports sciences literature.		[Teles Bredt, Sarah da Gloria; Chagas, Mauro Heleno; Peixoto, Gustavo Henrique; Menzel, Hans Joachim; Pereira de Andrade, Andre Gustavo] Univ Fed Minas Gerais, Dept Sports, Lab Biomech, Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil; [Pereira de Andrade, Andre Gustavo] Univ Fed Minas Gerais, Lab Biomech, Phys Educ Physiotherapy & Occupat Therapy Sch, Ave Antonio Carlos 6627, BR-31270901 Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil								89							Sport Sciences	WOS:000513916900001	20	Article; Article		
J	Tavernite, Jake P.; Moran, Matthew F.								Lower Extremity Stiffness in Collegiate Distance Runners Pre- and Post-Competition								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				71	1			69	77		10.2478/hukin-2019-0075			JAN 2020	2020	Previous evidence has suggested that there is a relationship between leg stiffness and improved running performance. The purpose of this investigation was to determine how leg stiffness of runners was influenced in the 24 and 48 hour period following a cross country race. Twenty-two collegiate cross-country runners (13 males, 9 females, 19.5 +/- 1.4 yr) were recruited and participated in the study. Leg stiffness was assessed 24 hours before and after a race as well as 48 hours post-race. Three jumping protocols were conducted: 1) a static jump, 2) a countermovement jump, and 3) a vertical hopping test. Two embedded force plates (1000 Hz) were utilized to measure ground reaction forces for each test and a metronome was utilized to maintain hopping frequency (2.2 Hz). A significant main effect was found for a static jump, a countermovement jump and leg stiffness. Leg stiffness was significantly reduced 24 hours post-race (pre-race 36.84 kN.m(-1), 24h post 33.11 kN.m(-1), p < 0.05), but not 48 hours post-race (36.30 kN.m(-1)). No significant differences were found in post-hoc analysis for the squat jump, countermovement jump height and the eccentric utilization ratio. Following a cross-country race, leg stiffness significantly declined in a group of collegiate runners in the immediate 24 hours post-race, but returned to baseline 48 hours post-race. Sport scientists and running coaches may be able to monitor leg stiffness as a metric to properly prescribe training regiments.		[Tavernite, Jake P.; Moran, Matthew F.] Sacred Heart Univ, Coll Hlth Profess, Dept Phys Therapy & Human Movement Sci, Mot Anal Lab, 5151 Pk Ave, Fairfield, CT 06825 USA; [Moran, Matthew F.] Sacred Heart Univ, Coll Hlth Profess, Dept Phys Therapy & Human Movement Sci, Mot Anal Lab, 5151 Pk Ave, Fairfield, CT 06825 USA								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:000513916900007	30	Article; Article		
J	Clemente, Filipe Manuel; Sanches, Rita; Moleiro, Carlos Filipe; Gomes, Monica; Lima, Ricardo Franco								Technical Performance and Perceived Exertion Variations Between Small-Sided Basketball Games in Under-14 and Under-16 Competitive Levels								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				71	1			179	189		10.2478/hukin-2019-0082			JAN 2020	2020	The aim of this study was twofold: i) to compare the rate of perceived exertion (RPE) and the frequencies of technical actions per minute in different small-sided games (SSGs) between under-14 and under-16 age groups, and ii) to compare the RPE and the frequencies of technical actions per minute between 1 x 1, 2 x 2, 3 x 3, 4 x 4 and 5 x 5 formats within age groups. Twenty young male basketball players from the same club (N = 10, from under-14; N =10, from under-16) competing at the national level voluntarily participated in this study. Five different SSGs (1 x 1, 2 x 2, 3 x 3, 4 x 4 and 5 x 5) were played twice on courts of the same relative area and were compared in terms of the RPE and technical actions. The number of technical-tactical actions per minute, i.e. conquered balls (CB), received balls (RB), lost balls (LB), attacking balls/passes (AB), shots (S), rebounds (R), and the RPE were collected for each player for each SSG session. The results revealed that most of the differences between age groups were considered trivial/small and/or unclear for all SSG formats, though likely moderate differences between age groups were found in 1 x 1 and 2 x 2 SSGs, revealing that young players had greater frequencies of received, conquered, and lost balls. Within-age-group comparisons also showed moderate-to-large increases in technical actions during smaller formats than during larger ones. The main evidence of this study revealed that age group seemed not to largely influence the RPE or technical actions during different SSGs. However, smaller formats moderately-to-largely increased the number of technical actions. Interestingly, the biggest format (5 x 5) largely increased the RPE in comparison to the remaining formats. As a conclusion, technical actions and the RPE were influenced more by the format of play than by the age group.		[Clemente, Filipe Manuel; Sanches, Rita; Moleiro, Carlos Filipe; Gomes, Monica; Lima, Ricardo Franco] Escola Super Desporto & Lazer, Inst Politecn Viana Castelo, Melgaco, Portugal; [Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Inst Telecomunicacoes, Delegacao Covilha, Covilha, Portugal; [Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Complexo Desport & Lazer Melgaco Monte Prado, P-4960320 Melgaco, Portugal								17							Sport Sciences	WOS:000513916900015	20	Article; Article		
J	Antonio Perez-Turpin, Jose; Elvira-Aranda, Carlos; Cabello-Manrique, David; Jose Gomis-Gomis, Maria; Suarez-Llorca, Concepcion; Andreu-Cabrera, Eliseo								Notational Comparison Analysis of Outdoor Badminton Men's Single and Double Matches								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				71	1			267	273		10.2478/hukin-2019-0121			JAN 2020	2020	The objectives of this study were to determine the results of the analysis of single and double outdoor badminton men's matches and to determine the relationship between technical and tactical aspects in a study organized by the BWF (Badminton Word Federation), on a sand surface. Twenty men's singles matches were recorded using video cameras and analysed with a Dartfish video analysis software package. Along with this, percentages of use of technical elements were analysed by comparing the different modalities. For the single format Lob, Clear, Drop, Smash, Drive were used, different from the double format that used Lob, Clear, Drop, Smash, Drive. The study confirmed the applicability of computerized notation analysis to determine the characteristics of Outdoor Badminton on sand.		[Antonio Perez-Turpin, Jose; Elvira-Aranda, Carlos; Jose Gomis-Gomis, Maria; Suarez-Llorca, Concepcion; Andreu-Cabrera, Eliseo] Univ Alicante, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Alicante, Spain; [Cabello-Manrique, David] Univ Granada, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Granada, Spain; [Cabello-Manrique, David] Univ Granada, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Granada, Spain								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:000513916900023	35	Article; Article		
J	Gonzalez-Mohino, Fernando; Santos del Cerro, Jesus; Renfree, Andrew; Yustres, Inmaculada; Gonzalez-Rave, Jose Ma								The Relationship Between Tactical Positioning and the Race Outcome in 800-M Running at the 2016 Olympic Games and 2017 IAAF World Championship								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				71	1			299	305		10.2478/hukin-2019-0090			JAN 2020	2020	The purpose of this analysis was to quantify the probability of achieving a top-3 finishing position during 800-m races at a global championship, based on dispersion of the runners during the first and second laps and the difference in split times between laps. Overall race times, intermediate and finishing positions and 400 m split times were obtained for 43 races over 800 m (21 men's and 22 women's) comprising 334 individual performances, 128 of which resulted in higher positions (top-3) and 206 the remaining positions. Intermediate and final positions along with times, the dispersion of the runners during the intermediate and final splits (SS1 and SS2), as well as differences between the two split times (Dsplits) were calculated. A logistic regression model was created to determine the influence of these factors in achieving a top-3 position. The final position was most strongly associated with SS2, but also with SS1 and Dsplits. The Global Significance Test showed that the model was significant (p < 0.001) with a predictive ability of 91.08% and an area under the curve coefficient of 0.9598. The values of sensitivity and specificity were 96.8% and 82.5%, respectively. The model demonstrated that SS1, SS2 and Dplits explained the finishing position in the 800-m event in global championships.		[Gonzalez-Mohino, Fernando; Yustres, Inmaculada; Gonzalez-Rave, Jose Ma] Univ Castilla La Mancha, Sport Training Lab, Toledo, Spain; [Santos del Cerro, Jesus] Univ Castilla La Mancha, Dept Stat, Toledo, Spain; [Renfree, Andrew] Univ Worcester, Inst Sport & Exercise Sci, Henwick Grove, Worcester, England; [Gonzalez-Mohino, Fernando] Univ Nebrija, Fac Lenguas & Educ, Madrid, Spain; [Gonzalez-Rave, Jose Ma] Fac Sport Sci, Ave Carlos III S-N, Toledo 45071, Spain								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:000513916900026	17	Article; Article		
J	Batalha, Nuno; Paixao, Carlos; Silva, Antonio Jose; Costa, Mario J.; Mullen, John; Barbosa, Tiago M.								The Effectiveness of a Dry-Land Shoulder Rotators Strength Training Program in Injury Prevention in Competitive Swimmers								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				71	1			11	20		10.2478/hukin-2019-0093			JAN 2020	2020	Competitive swimmers usually undergo large mileage of daily training, in which propulsive force is produced mainly by the upper limbs. Some studies claim that dry-land shoulder rotators injury prevention programs before the in-water swim practice are paramount. However, the effect of shoulder strengthening prior to water training is unclear. This study aimed to analyse the acute effects of training programs conducted on dry land with the goal of preventing shoulder rotators injuries. A group of young swimmers (N = 23) was recruited to participate in this research. The peak torques of shoulder internal and external rotators were assessed before and after the completion of the compensatory strength training program. The isokinetic assessment was performed using two different protocols: 3 repetitions at 60 degrees/s and 20 repetitions at 180 degrees/s. Except for a trivial reduction in strength after the training program, there were no other significant differences in any of the studied variables (shoulders rotators endurance, strength and muscle balance). All results showed trivial to small effect sizes. Our findings suggest that a compensatory strength training program does not have a significant acute effect on the strength, endurance and muscle balance of shoulder rotators in young swimmers.		[Batalha, Nuno] Univ Evora, Escola Ciencia & Tecnol, Dept Desporto & Saude, Evora, Portugal; [Batalha, Nuno] Univ Evora, Comprehens Hlth Res Ctr, Evora, Portugal; [Batalha, Nuno; Silva, Antonio Jose] Federacao Portuguesa Natacao, Lisbon, Portugal; [Paixao, Carlos] Inst Politecn Beja, Escola Super Educ, Subdept Desporto, Beja, Portugal; [Silva, Antonio Jose; Costa, Mario J.; Barbosa, Tiago M.] STRONG Res Community, CIDESD, Res Ctr Sports Hlth & Human Dev, Vila Real, Portugal; [Silva, Antonio Jose] Univ Tras Os Montes & Alto Douro, Vila Real, Portugal; [Costa, Mario J.] Polytech Inst Guarda, Sports Sci Dept, Guarda, Portugal; [Mullen, John] COR Phys Therapy & Sports Performance, Santa Clara, CA USA; [Barbosa, Tiago M.] Nanyang Technol Univ, Natl Inst Educ, Singapore, Singapore; [Barbosa, Tiago M.] Polytech Inst Braganca, Dept Sport Sci, Braganca, Portugal; [Batalha, Nuno] Univ Evora, Sport & Hlth Dept, R Reguengos de Monsaraz 14, P-7000727 Evora, Portugal								16							Sport Sciences	WOS:000513916900002	30	Article; Article		
J	Bond, Alexander John; Addesa, Francesco								Competitive Intensity, Fans' Expectations, and Match-Day Tickets Sold in the Italian Football Serie A, 2012-2015								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				21	1			20	43		10.1177/1527002519864617			JAN 2020	2020	This article investigates the impact of the competitive intensity (CI) on the stadium attendance for Italian soccer in three Serie A seasons (2012-13 to 2014-15). The central element of novelty concerning the existing literature is that fans expectations are also included among the explanatory variables of the Tobit model. Our results show that CI has a significant impact on match-day attendance in relation to all the sporting prizes but Europa League qualification. Moreover, we find evidence supporting the existence of reference-dependent preferences, where the attendance increases when the home team rank is higher than the preseason expectations.		[Bond, Alexander John; Addesa, Francesco] Leeds Beckett Univ, Carnegie Sch Sport, Sport Business Grp, 215 Cavendish Hall,Headingley Campus, Leeds LS6 3QT, W Yorkshire, England; [Bond, Alexander John] Leeds Beckett Univ, Carnegie Sch Sport, Sport Business Grp, 215 Cavendish Hall,Headingley Campus, Leeds LS6 3QT, W Yorkshire, England								40							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000498074600002	107	Article; Article		
J	Torrontegui-Duarte, Marcelino; Gijon-Nogueron, Gabriel; Carlos Perez-Frias, Juan; Miguel Morales-Asencio, Jose; Luque-Suarez, Alejandro								Incidence of injuries among professional football players in Spain during three consecutive seasons: A longitudinal, retrospective study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				41				87	93		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.11.008			JAN 2020	2020	Objectives: The aim of the study was to determine risk factors that maybe be associated with a higher incidence of injuries in elite football players in the Spanish league during a three-year follow-up. Injury was defined as a musculoskeletal complaint (pain and/or discomfort) reported by players to the medical staff and receiving medical attention. Design: A longitudinal retrospective study. Setting: and participants: Seventy-one players from Malaga Football Club, who were in the first squad team for three consecutive seasons. Main outcome measures: Incidence, location, severity of injuries were reported according to the Injury Consensus Group for football injuries. Results: Three hundred and fifty six injuries were found, with the highest proportion (44%) being located in the thigh. We found 6.9 (SD 5.87) injuries per 1000 h of match time and 0.23 (SD 0.22) per 1000 h of training. Forwards presented the highest rates in both incidence and severity of injury. Exposure to training was inversely related to the total number of injuries, which means that the greater the exposure to training the lesser the number of injuries. Conclusions: This information can assist clinicians in the identification of risk factors and, thus, the elaboration of prevention programmes that reduce football injuries. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Gijon-Nogueron, Gabriel; Miguel Morales-Asencio, Jose] Univ Malaga, Inst Invest Biomed Malaga IBIMA, Dept Nursing & Podiatry, Malaga, Spain; [Luque-Suarez, Alejandro] Univ Malaga, Inst Invest Biomed Malaga IBIMA, Dept Physiotherapy, Malaga, Spain; [Gijon-Nogueron, Gabriel] Fac Hlth Sci, Arquitecto Francisco Penalosa 3, Malaga 29071, Spain								17							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000509630600013	42	Article; Article		
J	Phan, Katie; Nicholson, Leslie L.; Hiller, Claire E.; Chan, Cliffton								Prevalence and unique patterns of lower limb hypermobility in elite ballet dancers								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				41				55	63		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.11.005			JAN 2020	2020	Objectives: Determine the prevalence of lower limb hypermobility in elite dancers and secondarily to describe the patterns of mobility. Design: Cross sectional. Setting: Self-report questionnaires and physical assessments were undertaken at a tertiary dance institution and a professional ballet company. Participants: Fifty-seven pre-professional and 29 professional ballet dancers (21 +/- 4years, 64% female, mean 13.7years training) were recruited. Main outcome measures: Lower Limb Assessment Score (LLAS) was used to assess hypermobility. Prevalence was determined by descriptive statistics, between-leg and -group comparisons were analysed using the chi-square statistic and the pattern of mobility by cluster analyses. Results: The right leg was significantly more hypermobile than the left for the whole cohort (44% vs 40% meeting >= 7/12 for the LLAS; LLAS mean/12(SD): right:5.0(2.4) and 7.6(1.9); left:4.8(2.1) and 6.7(2.0) in pre-professionals and professionals respectively (p = 0.02)). Subtalar pronation (p < 0.001) and hip abduction/external rotation (left:p = 0.01; right:p < 0.001) were significantly more hypermobile bilaterally in professionals. Three hypermobility profiles on the left and four on the right lower limb were identified. Conclusions: This paper presents unique lower limb hypermobility profiles identified in elite dancers. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Phan, Katie; Hiller, Claire E.] Univ Sydney, Sch Hlth Sci, Fac Med & Hlth, Camperdown, NSW, Australia; [Nicholson, Leslie L.; Chan, Cliffton] Univ Sydney, Sch Med Sci, Fac Med & Hlth, Camperdown, NSW, Australia; [Chan, Cliffton] Univ Sydney, Fac Med & Hlth, RC Mills Bldg, Camperdown, NSW 2006, Australia								4							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000509630600009	32	Article; Article		
J	Callaway, Andrew; Peck, Joshua; Ellis, Shelley; Williams, Jonathan								A randomised observational study of individualised variations in the start position of the closed-kinetic chain upper extremity stability test								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				41				16	22		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.10.007			JAN 2020	2020	Objectives: To assess the reliability, precision and differences between scores produced using the standard 36 '' start position and 3 modified start positions of the Closed Kinetic Chain Upper Extremity Stability Test (CKCUEST), towards normalisation to the individual. Design: RCT of 4 conditions. Setting: Clinical. Participants: Thirty-four asymptomatic individuals. Main outcome measures: Using an RCT method, variations in CKCUEST starting hand position were tested using hand spacing at standard 36 '', 50% height, bi-acromial distance, and bi-acromial distance with reach to 36 ''. The average number of touches over 3 x 15 s maximal efforts were used to assess the intravariation reliability, minimum detectable change (MDC) and differences to the standard 36 '' start position. Results: The most reliable variation was the 50% height (ICC: 0.93) and with the smallest MDC (14%). 36 '' results were second-most reliable (ICC: 0.90), with a low MDC (19%). Significant differences were found between bi-acromial and 50% height to the 36 '' standard setup. Conclusions: A setup position where the hand separation is 50% of the individual's height offers excellent repeated measures reliability and the smallest MDC, suggesting it is the most sensitive to change and is a recommendation to clinicians. Conversion calculations between start variations are presented. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Callaway, Andrew; Peck, Joshua; Ellis, Shelley; Williams, Jonathan] Bournemouth Univ, Dept Rehabil & Sport Sci, Poole, Dorset, England; [Callaway, Andrew] Bournemouth Univ, Dept Rehabil & Sport Sci, Poole, Dorset, England								16							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000509630600003	18	Article; Article		
J	Bennett, Kyle J. M.; Novak, Andrew R.; Pluss, Matthew A.; Coutts, Aaron J.; Fransen, Job								A multifactorial comparison of Australian youth soccer players' performance characteristics								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				15	1			17	25	1747954119893174	10.1177/1747954119893174			FEB 2020	2020	The current study aimed to investigate the performance characteristics that discriminate Australian youth soccer players according to their academy status. A total of 165 youth soccer players participated in this study and were sub-divided into either an early adolescence (n = 92, age = 13.0 +/- 0.6 years) or mid-adolescence (n = 73 age = 14.8 +/- 0.6 years) group. Players completed multifactorial assessments of anthropometry, motor competence, physical fitness, decision-making and psychological traits. Statistical significance was set at p <= 0.05. Multivariate analysis of variance identified dynamic balancing ability (both age groups), object manipulation (mid-adolescence), lateral jumping ability (both age groups), linear speed over 5 m (both age groups), change of direction skill (mid-adolescence), intermittent aerobic endurance (mid-adolescence) and total response time on a decision-making assessment (early adolescence) to discriminate academy status. Interestingly, a binomial logistical regression showed that a 0.1 s decrease in sprint time (i.e. running faster) increased the odds of a player belonging to a tier one academy by 19% and 47% for early and mid-adolescent players, respectively. Overall, performance in the motor competence and physical fitness assessments were in favour of the tier one academy players. These findings are indicative of a potential selection bias in the Australian talent pool or a training effect whereby tier one academy programmes emphasise the development of physical attributes. However, future research is required to further substantiate this in a larger sample of youth soccer players from other playing regions within Australia.		[Bennett, Kyle J. M.] Southern Cross Univ, Sch Hlth & Human Sci, Coffs Harbour, Australia; [Bennett, Kyle J. M.] Southern Cross Univ Coffs, Ctr Athlete Dev Experience & Performance, Coffs Harbour 2450, Australia; [Novak, Andrew R.; Pluss, Matthew A.; Coutts, Aaron J.; Fransen, Job] Univ Technol Sydney, Human Performance Res Ctr, Fac Hlth, Moore Pk, Australia; [Novak, Andrew R.] Rugby Australia, High Performance Dept, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Bennett, Kyle J. M.] Southern Cross Univ Coffs, Ctr Athlete Dev Experience & Performance, Coffs Harbour 2450, Australia								20							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000501484600001	44	Article; Article		
J	Kolber, Morey J.; Purita, Joseph; Sterling, Bryan; Stermer, Jaclyn; Salamh, Paul; Masaracchio, Michael; Hanney, William J.								Stem Cell Injections for Musculoskeletal Pathology: An Overview for the Sports Medicine Professional								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				41	6			75	86		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000500			DEC 2019	2019	Stem cell injections are a promising nonsurgical biological intervention that seek to augment the body's self-healing capacity. Owing to a growing range of clinical indications and excellent safety profile, sports medicine professionals are likely to encounter individuals who received or are considering stem cell injections. This column provides an overview of stem cell injection procedures, biological mechanisms, and evidence underpinning the potential utility of these interventions for musculoskeletal disorders.		[Kolber, Morey J.; Sterling, Bryan; Stermer, Jaclyn] Nova Southeastern Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Ft Lauderdale, FL 33314 USA; [Purita, Joseph] Inst Regenerat Med, Boca Raton, FL USA; [Salamh, Paul] Univ Indianapolis, Krannert Sch Phys Therapy, Indianapolis, IN 46227 USA; [Masaracchio, Michael] Long Isl Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Brooklyn, NY USA; [Hanney, William J.] Univ Cent Florida, Sch Kinesiol & Phys Therapy, Orlando, FL 32816 USA; [Kolber, Morey J.] Nova Southeastern Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Ft Lauderdale, FL 33314 USA								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:000509687000007	69	Article; Article		
J	Kipp, Kristof; Suchomel, Timothy J.; Comfort, Paul								Correlational Analysis between Joint-level Kinetics of Countermovement Jumps and Weightlifting Derivatives								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				18	4			663	668					DEC 2019	2019	The purpose of this study was to investigate the mechanical similarity between net joint moments (HIM) of the countermovement jump (CMJ) and the hang power clean (HPC) and jump shrug (JS). Twelve male Lacrosse players performed three maximal effort CMJs and three repetitions of the HPC and JS at 30%, 50%, and 70% of their HPC one repetition maximum (1-RM). Ground reaction forces and motion capture data were used to calculate the NJM of the hip, knee, and ankle joints during each exercise. Statistical comparison of the peak NJM indicated that NJM during the HPC and JS across all loads were equal to or greater than the NJM during the CMJ (all p < 0.025). In addition, correlation analyses indicated that CMJ hip NJM were associated (all p < 0.025) with HPC hip NJM at 30% and 70% (r = 0.611-0.822) and JS hip NJM at 50% and 70% (r = 0.674-0.739), whereas CMJ knee NJM were associated with HPC knee NJM at 70% (r = 0.638) and JS knee NJM at 50% and 70% (r = 0.664-0.732). Further, CMJ ankle NJM were associated with HPC ankle NJM at 30% and 50% (r = 0.615-0.697) and JS ankle NJM at 30%, 50%, and 70% (r = 0.735-0.824). Lastly, knee and ankle NJM during the JS were greater than during the HPC at 30% and 50% of 1-RM (all p < 0.017). The degree of mechanical similarity between the CMJ and the HPC and JS is dependent on the respective load and joint.		[Kipp, Kristof] Marquette Univ, Program Exercise Sci, Dept Phys Therapy, Milwaukee, WI 53233 USA; [Suchomel, Timothy J.] Carroll Univ, Dept Human Movement Sci, Waukesha, WI USA; [Suchomel, Timothy J.; Comfort, Paul] Salford Univ, Sch Hlth Sci, Salford, Lancs, England; [Kipp, Kristof] Marquette Univ, Program Exercise Sci, Dept Phys Therapy, Milwaukee, WI 53233 USA								12							Sport Sciences	WOS:000497951600009	27	Article; Article		
J	Enzo, Piponnier; Thorkani, Ashref; Zghal, Firas; Cottin, Francois; Martin, Vincent								Effect of the Anode Placement on the Antagonist Muscles Recruitment: Implication for the Interpolated Twitch Technique Outcome								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				18	4			674	679					DEC 2019	2019	The aim of the present study was to compare the recruitment of the antagonist muscles and its effect on the measurement of the voluntary activation level (VA) of the knee extensor (KE) muscles for different anode placements used to stimulate the femoral nerve. We hypothesized that when the anode is positioned over the gluteal fold (GF), the antagonist muscles recruitment would be greater and, thus the VA overestimated, than when the anode is placed midway between the greater trochanter and the lower border of the iliac crest (Mid(troc-iliac)). Thirteen healthy men (23 +/- 4 yr) were tested in both conditions (GF vs. Mid(troc-iliac)) in a randomized order. Recruitment curves were performed to determine the optimal stimulus intensity (I-opt) and quantify antagonist muscles recruitment (i.e. biceps femoris M-wave). Participants performed maximal voluntary isometric contractions (MVIC) and the interpolated twitch technique was used to measured VA. Antagonist muscles recruitment was greater when the anode was placed over the GF than Mid(troc-iliac). The I-opt was also lower for GF than Mid(troc-iliac). placement. However, no significant effect of anode placement was found for the interpolated twitch technique outcome. When the anode was placed over the GF, antagonist muscles recruitment was greater, inducing optimal stimulus intensity underestimation. However, it did not affect VA assessment. To fully avoid this potential limitation, Mid(troc-iliac )anode placement should nevertheless be preferred for the KE neuromuscular function assessment, owing to the reduced recruitment of the antagonist muscles.		[Enzo, Piponnier; Martin, Vincent] Univ Clermont Auvergne, Lab Adaptat Metabol Exercice Condit Physiol & Pat, Clermont Ferrand, France; [Thorkani, Ashref] Univ Evry Val dEssonne Genopole, Unite Biol Integrat Adaptat Exercice, Evry, France; [Zghal, Firas] Univ Nice Sofia Antipolis, Lab Motricite Humaine Expertise Sport Sante LAMHE, Nice, France; [Cottin, Francois] Univ Paris Sud, Lab Complexite Innovat Activites Motrices & Sport, Orsay, France; [Enzo, Piponnier] Univ Clermont Auvergne, Lab AME2P, 3 Rue Chebarde, F-63178 Aubiere, France								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:000497951600011	20	Article; Article		
J	Florit, Daniel; Pedret, Carles; Casals, Marti; Malliaras, Peter; Sugimoto, Dai; Rodas, Gil								Incidence of Tendinopathy in Team Sports in a Multidisciplinary Sports Club Over 8 Seasons								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				18	4			780	788					DEC 2019	2019	Tendinopathy is a critical medical condition that often hinders level of participation for professional and young athletes in many sports. The purpose of the study was to describe the incidence and severity of tendinopathy in a multi-sport club with professional and youth teams. We performed a retrospective epidemiological study. Incidence of tendinopathy in players (n = 3839; 8-38 years, professional and youth) was reviewed over 8 seasons (2008-2016) in 5 team sports: football, basketball, handball, roller hockey, and futsal. Team physicians diagnosed and classified tendinopathies according to anatomical location, sport types, playing category, sex, playing surface, lost training time, and severity (time to return to play). Injuries were coded using OSICS-10, and incidence of tendinopathies were calculated as the number of injuries per 100 players per season. The total relative frequency of tendinopathy (versus total injuries) was 22% (843/3839) over 8 seasons from 360 in youth and 483 in professional teams. The incidence of injury was the highest in professional basketball [69.9, 95%CI: (58.0-81.4)] followed by professional roller hockey [64.4, 95%CI: (47.3-85.6)], and professional futsal [36.2, 95%CI: (27.3 -47.1)]. The most incidences commonly affected tendons were the patellar [11.7, 95%CI: (10.0-13.5)] and Achilles [10.3, 95%CI: (8.5-12.5)]. Tendinopathies represent a significant number of injuries in team sports and are more common in professional than youth teams, especially basketball and roller hockey. Additional studies are needed to understand associated time-loss and impact on performance, and to develop prevention strategies for high risk sports.		[Florit, Daniel; Casals, Marti; Rodas, Gil] Futbol Club Barcelona, Barca Innovat Hub, Med Dept, Barcelona, Spain; [Florit, Daniel] Univ Autonoma Barcelona, Fac Med, Barcelona, Spain; [Pedret, Carles] Clin Mapfre Med Tenis, Med & Imaging Dept, Barcelona, Spain; [Pedret, Carles] Clin Diagonal, Ultrasonog Dept, Clinica Diago, Spain; [Casals, Marti] Cent Univ Catalonia, Sport & Phys Act Studies Ctr CEEAF, Univ Vic, Catalonia, Spain; [Malliaras, Peter] Monash Univ, Sch Primary & Allied Hlth Care, Dept Physiotherapy, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Rodas, Gil] St Joan de Deu Hosp, Clin Hosp, Sports Med Dept, Barcelona, Spain; [Sugimoto, Dai] Micheli Ctr Sports Injury Prevent, Waltham, MA USA; [Sugimoto, Dai] Boston Childrens Hosp, Dept Orthoped, Div Sports Med, Boston, MA USA; [Sugimoto, Dai] Harvard Med Sch, Boston, MA 02115 USA; [Sugimoto, Dai] Harvard Med Sch, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Boston, MA 02115 USA; [Casals, Marti] Futbol Club Barcelona, Barca Innovat Hub, Med Dept, Barcelona, Spain; [Casals, Marti] Cent Univ Catalonia, Sport & Phys Act Studies Ctr CEEAF, Univ Vic, Catalonia, Spain								70							Sport Sciences	WOS:000497951600022	47	Article; Article		
J	de Moraes, Wilson M. A. M.; de Almeida, Fernando N.; dos Santos, Leonardo E. A.; Cavalcante, Kathleen D. G.; Santos, Heitor O.; Navalta, James W.; Prestes, Jonato								Carbohydrate Loading Practice in Bodybuilders: Effects on Muscle Thickness, Photo Silhouette Scores, Mood States and Gastrointestinal Symptoms								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				18	4			772	779					DEC 2019	2019	A common practice among bodybuilders is the use of carbohydrate loading to improve physical appearance during competition, while limited documented data is available about this issue. The aim of the present study was to evaluate muscle thickness, mood states, gastrointestinal symptoms and subjective silhouette assessment following carbohydrate loading in bodybuilders. Twenty-four male bodybuilders were evaluated at the weighing period following three days of carbohydrate depletion (M1), and 24h of carbohydrate loading leading up to the competition (M2), stratified into: no carbohydrate load (NC, n = 9) and carbohydrate loading (CL, n =1 5). The silhouette scale, Brunel mood scale (BRUMS), muscle thickness (ultrasound), circumferences, and gastrointestinal symptoms (GIS) were evaluated at M1 and M2. The NC displayed no differences in muscle thickness and circumferences between Ml and M2. Body mass, muscle thickness (elbow flexors, a combination of biceps brachii/brachialis muscle, and triceps brachii) and circumferences (chest, hip, thigh, arm, calves, and forearm) increased significantly (p < 0.05) in the CL at M2. There was a significant increase in photo silhouette scores (p < 0.05) in the CL at M2. There was no significant difference in mood states between groups or time. The most reported GIS was constipation: 7/9 (NC) and 9/15 (CL) during M1 and 6/9 (NC), and 5/15 (CL) at M2 with symptoms described as 'moderate' or 'severe'. Diarrhea was reported by 7/15 CL (4/15 as severe). These data suggest that carbohydrate loading may contribute to an acute increase in muscle volume and physical appearance, however, it needs to be better planned to minimize gastrointestinal symptoms in body-builders.		[de Moraes, Wilson M. A. M.; de Almeida, Fernando N.; Prestes, Jonato] Catholic Univ Brasilia UCB, Post Grad Program Phys Educ, Brasilia, DF, Brazil; [de Moraes, Wilson M. A. M.] Ctr Estacio Brasilia, Grad Phys Educ, Brasilia, DF, Brazil; [dos Santos, Leonardo E. A.; Cavalcante, Kathleen D. G.] Catholic Univ Brasilia UCB, Grad Phys Educ, Brasilia, DF, Brazil; [Santos, Heitor O.] Fed Univ Uberlandia UFU, Sch Med, Uberlandia, MG, Brazil; [Navalta, James W.] Univ Nevada, Dept Kinesiol & Nutr Sci, Las Vegas, NV 89154 USA; [de Moraes, Wilson M. A. M.] Univ Catolica Brasilia, Postgrad Program Phys Educ, QS 07,Lote 01,EPTC,Bloco G, BR-71966700 Taguatinga, DF, Brazil								30							Sport Sciences	WOS:000497951600021	36	Article; Article		
J	Dominik, Novak; Lipinska, Patrycja; Roczniok, Robert; Spieszny, Michal; Stastny, Petr								Off-Ice Agility Provide Motor Transfer to On-Ice Skating Performance and Agility in Adolescent Ice Hockey Players								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				18	4			680	694					DEC 2019	2019	Agility plays a crucial role in ice hockey training, and it can be developed directly on the ice or by additional off-ice training. Since the effectiveness of on-ice and off-ice training on players' agility have not been previously described, the purpose of this research is to compare the effects of on-ice and off-ice agility training on skating performance. Fourteen ice hockey players performed agility training on-ice for 4 weeks and off-ice for 4 weeks in a crossover design; they were tested before the agility program, after the first month and after finishing both training programs. The players were randomly assigned into one of two groups (n = 7 in each group), either performing the on-ice training protocol first (Ice1) followed by the off-ice agility training or performing the off-ice protocol first and the on-ice training second (Ice2). The test battery included straight sprints to 6.1 m and 35 m and the S corner test, test with break, weave agility with puck test and reactive agility test. The magnitude based decision showed the effect of agility training in both groups in the weave agility (Ice1, 2.9 +/- 2.8% likely improvement; Ice2, 3.1 +/- 2.5% possible improvement) and reactive agility tests (Ice1, 3.1 +/- 2.5% likely improvement; Ice2, 1.7 +/- 2.1% possible improvement), where the Ice1 protocol resulted in a likely positive change and Ice2 resulted in a possible positive change. The comparison of the training effect resulted in a possibly harmful change of performance in Ice2 protocol (-0.5 +/- 8.9%) compared to Ice1 protocol (-1.0 +/- 5.1%). Onice training is more effective in the development of specific types of agility in adolescent U16 players. However, there is evidence that off-ice agility have motor transfer to on-ice agility. Therefore, we recommend developing on-ice agility with additional off-ice agility training during the ice hockey season.		[Dominik, Novak; Stastny, Petr] Charles Univ Prague, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Dept Sport Games, Prague, Czech Republic; [Lipinska, Patrycja] Kazimierz Wielki Univ Bydgoszcz, Inst Phys Educ, Bydgoszcz, Poland; [Roczniok, Robert] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ & Sport Katowice, Dept Sports Training, Katowice, Poland; [Spieszny, Michal] Univ Sch Phys Educ Krakow, Krakow, Poland; [Stastny, Petr] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, Dept Mol Biol, Gdansk, Poland; [Stastny, Petr] Charles Univ Prague, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Dept Sport Games, Prague, Czech Republic; [Stastny, Petr] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, Dept Mol Biol, Gdansk, Poland								23							Sport Sciences	WOS:000497951600012	35	Article; Article		
J	Da Silva-Grigoletto, Marzo E.; Mesquita, Marceli M. A.; Aragao-Santos, Jose C.; Santos, Marta S.; Resende-Neto, Antonio G.; de Santana, Josimari M.; Behm, David G.								Functional Training Induces Greater Variety and Magnitude of Training Improvements than Traditional Resistance Training in Elderly Women								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				18	4			789	797					DEC 2019	2019	The objective was to investigate the effects of functional (FT) and traditional (TT) training on trunk muscles maximal isometric strength, rate of force development and endurance with trained elderly women. Forty-five elderly women were directed into three groups: FT (n =1 6), TT (n = 14) and Control (n = 15). The FT (multi-planar, and multi-articular movements) and TT (primarily machine-based resistance exercises) performed mobility, muscle strength and power exercises. Both training groups also performed intermittent cardiometabolic activities. The maximum strength and endurance of the trunk muscles were verified, both at baseline and after 12 weeks of training (3xweek for 50 min each). Data were analyzed using a 2-way ANCOVA with contrast of adjusted mean values. FT significantly increased all variables: maximum trunk flexor strength (p = 0.002, 22%); rate of flexor force development (p = 0.001, 84%); trunk extensors maximal strength (p = 0.003, 17%); trunk extensor rate of force development (p = 0.05, 16%); trunk flexors (p = 0.001, 19%) and extensors (p = 0.017, 13%) endurance compared to baseline. TT showed an increase only in RFD of trunk extensors (p = 0.003, 53%), and flexors (p = 0.033, 42%), and trunk flexors endurance (p = 0.008, 11%). However, there was no statistically significant difference between groups. FT promoted improvement in all variables; strength, endurance and rate of force development of the trunk flexors and extensors of the elderly. On the other hand, TT improved only the rate of force development of trunk flexors and extensors and endurance of the trunk flexors. FT is recommended for elderly women as it improves a broader array of physiological parameters.		[Da Silva-Grigoletto, Marzo E.; Mesquita, Marceli M. A.; Aragao-Santos, Jose C.; Santos, Marta S.; Resende-Neto, Antonio G.; de Santana, Josimari M.] Univ Fed Sergipe, Dept Phys Educ, Sao Cristovao, Brazil; [Behm, David G.] Mem Univ Newfoundland, Sch Human Kinet & Recreat, St John, NF, Canada; [Behm, David G.] Mem Univ Newfoundland, Sch Human Kinet & Recreat, St John, NF, Canada								17							Sport Sciences	WOS:000497951600023	45	Article; Article		
J	Selles-Perez, Sergio; Fernandez-Satz, Jose; Cejuela, Roberto								Polarized and Pyramidal Training Intensity Distribution: Relationship with a Half-Ironman Distance Triathlon Competition								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				18	4			708	715					DEC 2019	2019	The purpose of the present study was to relate the training intensity distribution with performance in a Half-Ironman distance triathlon competition. A total of 18 recreational-level triathletes were divided into two training groups according to their training intensity distribution: Polarized (POL) and Pyramidal (PYR). Prior to the specific training period of the study, subjects performed a ramp-protocol test, running and cycling to determine ventilatory thresholds (VT) through gas-exchange analysis. For swimming, subjects performed an 800-metre test to establish their training zones. Training was quantified based on the cumulative time spent in 3 intensity zones: zone 1 (low intensity,<VT1), zone 2 (moderate intensity, VT1-VT2) and zone 3 (high intensity >VT2). POL competed 84.5%/4.2%/11.3% and PYR 77.9%/18.8%/3.3% of total training time for zones 1,2 and 3 respectively. The goal of the training period was a half Ironman distance triathlon. Training time in zone 2 inversely correlated with swimming and cycling race time in POL and with running and total race time in PYR. Power at VT2 on bike and speed at VT2 as well as maximum aerobic power and speed in the physiological post test inversely correlated with bike and run segment respectively and with total race time. These results suggest that training time in zone 2 was related with better performance on a Half-Ironman race in amateur triathletes. Future experimental research is needed to clarify the importance of training intensity distribution regarding performance.		[Selles-Perez, Sergio; Cejuela, Roberto] Univ Alicante, Fac Educ, Dept Phys Educ & Sports, Alicante, Spain; [Fernandez-Satz, Jose] Univ Alicante, Publ Hlth Res Grp, Alicante, Spain; [Fernandez-Satz, Jose] IDIAP Jordi Gol, Res Support Unit Tierras del Ebro, Tarragona, Spain; [Selles-Perez, Sergio] Univ Alicante, Fac Educ, San Vicente del Raspeig St, SN-03690 Alicante, Spain								28							Sport Sciences	WOS:000497951600014	38	Article; Article		
J	Pojskic, Haris; Pagaduan, Jeffrey; Uzicanin, Edin; Separovic, Vlatko; Spasic, Miodrag; Foretic, Nikola; Sekulic, Damir								Reliability, Validity and Usefulness of a New Response Time Test for Agility-Based Sports: A Simple vs. Complex Motor Task								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				18	4			623	635					DEC 2019	2019	The importance of response time (RT) in sports is well known, but there is an evident lack of reliable and valid sport-specific measurement tools applicable in the evaluation of RT in trained athletes. This study aimed to identify the validity, reliability, and usefulness of four newly developed RT testing protocols among athletes from agility-saturated (AG) and non-agility-saturated (NAG) sports. Thirty-seven AG and ten NAG athletes (age: 20.9 +/- 2.9; eleven females) volunteered to undergo: three randomized simple response time (SRT-1, SRT-2, and SRT-3) protocols that included a single limb movement, and one complex response time (CRT) protocol that included multi joint movements and whole body transition over a short distance (1.5 and 1.8m). Each RT test involved 3 trials with 5 randomized attempts per trial. Two sensors were placed at the left- and right-hand side for SRT-1 and SRT-2. Three sensors were positioned (left, middle, right) in SRT-3 and CRT. The intra-class-correlation coefficient (ICC) was calculated as a measure of reliability. Independent sample t-test, effect size (d), and area-under-the-curve (AUC) were calculated to define discriminative validity of the tests. The results showed the newly developed tests were more reliable and useful in the AG than NAG athletes (i.e., ICC between 0.68 and 0.97 versus 0.31 - 0.90, respectively). The RT of AG athletes was faster than that of NAG athletes in the CRT test from the left (p <0.01, d = 2.40, AUC: 0.98), centre (p < 0.01, d = 1.57, AUC: 0.89), and right sensor (p < 0.01, d = 1.93, AUC: 0.89) locations. In contrast, there were no differences between the groups in the SRT tests. The weak correlation (i.e., r= 0.00 - 0.33) between the SRT and CRT tests suggests that response time of the single limb and multijoint limb movements should not be considered as a single motor capacity. In conclusion, this study showed that AG athletes had faster response time than their NAG peers during complex motor tasks. Such enhanced ability to rapidly and accurately reprogram complex motor tasks can be considered one of the essential qualities required for advanced performance in agility-based sports.		[Pojskic, Haris] Linnaeus Univ, Dept Sports Sci, Kalmar, Sweden; [Pojskic, Haris] Mid Sweden Univ, Swedish Winter Sports Res Ctr, Ostersund, Sweden; [Pagaduan, Jeffrey] Univ Tasmania, Sch Hlth Sci, Coll Hlth & Med, Newnham, Tas, Australia; [Uzicanin, Edin; Separovic, Vlatko] Univ Tuzla, Fac Phys Educ & Sports, Tuzla, Bosnia & Herceg; [Spasic, Miodrag; Foretic, Nikola; Sekulic, Damir] Univ Split, Fac Kinesiol, Split, Croatia; [Pojskic, Haris] Linnaeus Univ, Dept Sports Sci, Kalmar, Sweden; [Pojskic, Haris] Mid Sweden Univ, Swedish Winter Sports Res Ctr, Ostersund, Sweden								24							Sport Sciences	WOS:000497951600005	60	Article; Article		
J	Lin, Jian-Zhi; Lin, Yu-An; Lee, Heng-Ju								Are Landing Biomechanics Altered in Elite Athletes with Chronic Ankle Instability								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				18	4			653	662					DEC 2019	2019	This study analyzed landing strategies used by athletes with chronic ankle instability (CAI) and copers compared to uninjured controls. Thirty participants were asked to perform a single-leg forward jump followed by a single-leg landing. Compared to uninjured controls, those with CAI athletes had significantly greater hip flexion and ankle eversion angles at initial landing, suggesting preference for using hip movements and extra ankle eversion angles to avoid ankle inversion when landing. CAI athletes were also found to have significantly decreased peroneus longus activation and higher ankle inversion velocity were both found during descending phase. And these were potential contributors to cause ankle inversion injury as there were likely many others. Based on these findings, CAI athletes may need to utilize more multi-joint or multi-muscle strategies during landing to maintain stability and prevent re-injury.		[Lin, Jian-Zhi; Lin, Yu-An; Lee, Heng-Ju] Natl Taiwan Normal Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Taipei, Taiwan; [Lee, Heng-Ju] Natl Taiwan Normal Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Taipei, Taiwan								49							Sport Sciences	WOS:000497951600008	62	Article; Article		
J	Kang, Yun-Seok; Kim, Jae-Cheol; Kim, Jeong-Seok; Kim, Sang Hyun								Effects of Swimming Exercise on Serum Irisin and Bone FNDC5 in Rat Models of High-Fat Diet-Induced Osteoporosis								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				18	4			596	603					DEC 2019	2019	This study aimed to investigate the expression of PGC-1 alpha/FNDC5/irisin induced by attenuation of high-fat diet (HFD)-induced bone accrual and determine whether swimming exercise could improve attenuating bone accrual through this mechanism. Eight-week-old Sprague-Dawley rats were divided into two groups for the first 8 weeks: CD, control diet (n = 10); and HFD, high-fat diet (n = 20). HFD-fed rats were again divided into two groups for further 8 weeks treatment: HFD (n = 10) and HFD with swimming exercise (HEx, n = 10). During this time, the CD group continuously fed the normal diet. Throughout the 16 weeks study period, the rats were weighed once every week. Samples were collected for analysis after last 8 weeks of treatment in the 16 weeks. Morphological and structural changes of the femur and tibial bone were observed using micro-CT, and Osteocalcin, CTX-1 and irisin levels in the blood were measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. The expression of IL-1, beta-catenin, FNDC5 and PGC-1 alpha, in the femur were evaluated by immuno-histochemistry. Eight weeks of HFD increased body weight and epididymal fat mass and decreased bone mineral density (BMD). Subsequent 8 weeks of swimming exercise improved obesity, BMD, bone microstructure, and bone metabolic factors in the HEx group. The irisin levels in the blood and the expressions of FNDC5 and PGC-1 alpha in the bone were significantly lower in the HFD group than in the CD group, but elevated in the HEx group than in the HFD group. Swimming exercise is effective in improving obesity-worsened bone health and increases blood irisin and bone PGC-1 alpha and FNDC5 levels.		[Kang, Yun-Seok; Kim, Jae-Cheol; Kim, Jeong-Seok; Kim, Sang Hyun] Chonbuk Natl Univ, Coll Nat Sci, Dept Sports Sci, Jeonju, South Korea; [Kim, Sang Hyun] Chonbuk Natl Univ, 567 Beakje Daero, Jeonju 54896, South Korea								52							Sport Sciences	WOS:000497951600002	41	Article; Article		
J	Ozaki, Hayao; Nakagata, Takashi; Yoshihara, Toshinori; Kitada, Tomoharu; Natsume, Toshiharu; Ishihara, Yoshihiko; Deng, Pengyu; Kobayashi, Hiroyuki; Machida, Shuichi; Naito, Hisashi								Effects of Progressive Walking and Stair-Climbing Training Program on Muscle Size and Strength of the Lower Body in Untrained Older Adults								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				18	4			722	728					DEC 2019	2019	The purpose of the present study was to investigate the effect of the progressive walking program on lower limb muscle size and strength and evaluated whether the stair-climbing exercise provided additional training effects when combined with the walking program. Fifteen elderly subjects (age 69 +/- 1 years, height 1.63 +/- 0.02 m, body weight 64.5 +/- 2.0 kg) were randomly assigned to a walking group or a walking and stair-climbing group. The progressive walking program comprised continuous (week 1-8) and interval (week 9-17) exercises. The walking and stair-climbing group also performed stair climbing. Muscle thickness, strength, and walking performance were evaluated before and 8 and 17 weeks after the start of the program. The muscle thickness of the anterior and posterior parts of the thigh significantly (p < 0.05) increased in both groups. There was also a significant (p < 0.01) main effect of time in isometric maximal strength and the values expressed relative to body mass for both knee extension and flexion. However, no group x time interactions were noted. Furthermore, the percentage change of knee flexion strength after the training period was significantly (p < 0.01) correlated with the pre-intervention value. Seventeen weeks of the progressive walking program can increase thigh muscle size and strength for older adults; however, an added stair-climbing exercise may not provide additional training effects. Furthermore, the magnitude of improvement in knee flexion strength would depend on the pre-intervention value.		[Ozaki, Hayao; Kitada, Tomoharu; Machida, Shuichi; Naito, Hisashi] Juntendo Univ, Grad Sch Hlth & Sports Sci, 1-1 Hirakagakuendai, Inzai, Chiba 2701695, Japan; [Ozaki, Hayao; Nakagata, Takashi; Deng, Pengyu; Machida, Shuichi; Naito, Hisashi] Juntendo Univ, Sch Hlth & Sports Sci, Inzai, Chiba, Japan; [Yoshihara, Toshinori; Natsume, Toshiharu] Juntendo Univ, COI Project Ctr, Bunkyo Ku, Tokyo, Japan; [Ishihara, Yoshihiko; Machida, Shuichi; Naito, Hisashi] Juntendo Univ, Inst Hlth & Sports Sci & Med, Inzai, Chiba, Japan; [Kobayashi, Hiroyuki] Tsukuba Univ Hosp, Mito Med Ctr, Dept Gen Med, Mito, Ibaraki, Japan; [Machida, Shuichi] Juntendo Univ, Grad Sch Hlth & Sports Sci, 1-1 Hirakagakuendai, Inzai, Chiba 2701695, Japan								19							Sport Sciences	WOS:000497951600016	21	Article; Article		
J	Koliamitra, Christina; Javelle, Florian; Joisten, Niklas; Shimabukuro-Vornhagen, Alexander; Bloch, Wilhelm; Schenk, Alexander; Zimmer, Philipp								Do Acute Exercise-Induced Activations of the Kynurenine Pathway Induce Regulatory T-Cells on the Long-Term? - A Theoretical Frame Work Supported by Pilot Data								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				18	4			669	673					DEC 2019	2019	Regular physical activity and exercise interventions are suspected to have anti-inflammatory effects depending on exercise modality, thereby potentially reducing the risk and progress of several chronic diseases. Alterations in the kynurenine pathway may represent a link between inflammatory responses following acute exercise and chronic anti-inflammatory properties, such as increased levels of regulatory T-cells (T-reg). Here, we hypothesize that acute exercise activates the kynurenine pathway and physical fitness is associated with proportions of circulating anti-inflammatory T-reg in older healthy women. Nineteen older healthy female participants (55 years (SD: +/- 5.6)) completed a cardiopulmonary incremental exercise test (CPET) with spirometry on a bicycle ergometer until exhaustion with maximum oxygen uptake (VO(2)max) as outcome. Blood samples were taken before (T0) and one minute after (T1) the CPET. Levels of tryptophan, serotonin and kynurenine were determined by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays. Flow cytometry was used to identify proportions of T-cell subsets. Both, kynurenine (p = 0.003, d = 0.40) and the kynurenine/tryptophan ratio (p = 0.034, d = 0.48) increased significantly after acute exercise. Moreover, participants' VO(2)max was strongly correlated with T-reg levels (p < 0.001, r = 0.689). This is the first study indicating a kynurenine pathway activation following acute exercise in older healthy women. The observed correlation between T-reg levels and VO(2)max emphasizes a potential link between short-term upregulated kynurenine levels and longer-term anti-inflammatory properties of exercise. Future research is needed to clarify to what extend acute exercise-induced activations of the kynurenine pathway contribute to T-reg differentiation.		[Koliamitra, Christina; Javelle, Florian; Joisten, Niklas; Bloch, Wilhelm; Schenk, Alexander; Zimmer, Philipp] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Cardiovasc Res & Sports Med, Dept Mol & Cellular Sports Med, Cologne, Germany; [Shimabukuro-Vornhagen, Alexander] Univ Hosp Cologne, Cologne Intervent Immunol, Cologne, Germany; [Shimabukuro-Vornhagen, Alexander] Univ Hosp Cologne, Dept Internal Med 1, Intens Care Program, Cologne, Germany; [Shimabukuro-Vornhagen, Alexander] Univ Hosp Cologne, Ctr Integrated Oncol Cologne Bonn, Cologne, Germany; [Shimabukuro-Vornhagen, Alexander] Intens Care Hematooncol Patients iCHOP, Cologne, Germany; [Bloch, Wilhelm] German Sport Univ Cologne, German Res Ctr Elite Sport, Cologne, Germany; [Zimmer, Philipp] German Canc Res Ctr, Div Phys Act Prevent & Canc, Heidelberg, Germany; [Zimmer, Philipp] Natl Ctr Tumor Dis NCT, Heidelberg, Germany; [Zimmer, Philipp] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Cardiovasc Res & Sports Med, Dept Mol & Cellular Sports Med, Cologne, Germany; [Zimmer, Philipp] German Canc Res Ctr, Div Phys Act Prevent & Canc, Heidelberg, Germany; [Zimmer, Philipp] Natl Ctr Tumor Dis NCT, Heidelberg, Germany								13							Sport Sciences	WOS:000497951600010	19	Article; Article		
J	Duvinage, Cedric; Jost, Peter-J.								The Role of Referees in Professional Sports Contests								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				20	8			1014	1050		10.1177/1527002519851145			DEC 2019	2019	This article models the role of a referee in a contest, in which players can invest into both productive and sabotage effort. The model shows that (1) a referee significantly influences the equilibrium strategies of the contestants, (2) whether or not the referee improves the quality of a contest depends on his refereeing performance and the marginal penalty awardable subject to the rules of the game, (3) the value of the referee is independent of asymmetries between players, as long as the asymmetric attribute does not affect the referee's errors, (4) corrupt referees pose a serious economic threat to the sports industry, and (5) a referee reduces the competitive imbalance between the contestants in an asymmetric contest.		[Duvinage, Cedric; Jost, Peter-J.] WHU Otto Beisheim Sch Management, Inst Org Theory, Burgpl 2, D-56179 Vallendar, Germany; [Jost, Peter-J.] WHU Otto Beisheim Sch Management, Inst Org Theory, Burgpl 2, D-56179 Vallendar, Germany								11							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000484665600002	88	Article; Article		
J	Thrane, Christer								Performance and Actual Pay in Norwegian Soccer								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				20	8			1051	1065		10.1177/1527002519851146			DEC 2019	2019	Data on actual earnings for soccer players are virtually impossible to obtain. For this reason, most performance-pay studies on soccer use market values as a proxy for earnings. No study to date has questioned whether this fact has had any bearing on the conclusions reached in the literature. This study examines this question by comparing how certain performance variables and player characteristics affect the actual earnings and market values of soccer players in the Norwegian version of the "Premier League," the so-called Eliteserien. In several important respects, the analyses show that the regression coefficient estimates differ for actual earnings and market values. It is concluded that caution is warranted when interpreting performance variables' and player characteristics' effects on market values as they were effects on actual earnings.		[Thrane, Christer] Inland Norway Univ Appl Sci, Inland Sch Business & Social Sci, Elverum, Norway; [Thrane, Christer] Inland Norway Univ Appl Sci, Postboks 400, N-2418 Elverum, Norway								18							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000484665600003	28	Article; Article		
J	Madden, Paul								Collective Bargaining in a Basic North American Sports League Model With Broadcasting Revenue								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				20	8			1088	1118		10.1177/1527002519851156			DEC 2019	2019	The general firm/trade union bargaining literature is brought to bear on a specific North American sports league model, where talent supply is perfectly inelastic and profit-maximizing clubs receive local (gate) revenue plus an equal share of league broadcasting revenue. Club and player representatives negotiate a collective bargaining agreement (CBA) on the levels of local revenue sharing, salary cap, and salary floor. Results characterize the set of efficient bargains and the Nash bargaining solution and show how they are affected by increases in broadcasting market size, focusing on player salaries, competitive balance, the content of CBA documents, and comparisons with laissez-faire.		[Madden, Paul] Univ Manchester, Sch Social Sci, Manchester M13 9PL, Lancs, England; [Madden, Paul] Univ Manchester, Sch Social Sci, Manchester M13 9PL, Lancs, England								2							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000484665600005	22	Article; Article		
J	Fort, Rodney; Lee, Young Hoon; Oh, Taeyeon								Quantile Insights on Market Structure and Worker Salaries: The Case of Major League Baseball								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				20	8			1066	1087		10.1177/1527002519851152			DEC 2019	2019	The vast majority of the empirical investigation of player marginal revenue product (MRP) and monopsony exploitation rates (MER) implicitly assumed that MRP is constant across the revenue distribution of teams. The few works that do attempt to capture the impact of revenue variation across teams do so via independent variable specification. We bring quantile estimation to bear that allows MRP to vary across the entire revenue distribution in Major League Baseball. Completely in keeping with economic common sense, MRP increases as total revenue rises (to higher and higher quantiles). As with past findings, there is interesting MER dispersion over the length of player tenure in the league and between star and mediocre players. Heretofore unexplored, we also find interesting dispersion in MRP and MER between larger revenue and smaller revenue markets. Our results suggest that independent variable specifications overstate MRP and MER for smaller revenue teams and understate the same for larger revenue team.		[Fort, Rodney] Univ Michigan, Sport Management, Ann Arbor, MI 48109 USA; [Lee, Young Hoon] Sogang Univ, Dept Econ, Seoul, South Korea; [Oh, Taeyeon] Univ Mississippi, Dept Hlth Exercise Sci & Recreat Management, Oxford, MS USA; [Lee, Young Hoon] Sogang Univ, 1 Sinsoo Dong, Seoul 136792, South Korea								8							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000484665600004	34	Article; Article		
J	Fisher, Kevin M.; Fairbrother, Jeffrey T.								Seeing is Believing: Blind Putting Drills Confer No Advantage to the Novice Golfer								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				91	2			335	345		10.1080/02701367.2019.1674443			APR 2 2020	2020	Purpose: Golf coaches may recommend "blind" putting drills in which golfers close their eyes to improve their feel. Research on specificity of learning suggests, however, that adding or removing a source of sensory information after practicing under differing circumstances can cause performance decrements. Specificity of learning is also dependent upon specific task requirements. The purpose of this study was to examine whether golf putting, requiring body positioning and aiming an implement, would benefit from blind training. Method: Novice golfers (n = 24) in Vision Training (VT) & No-Vision Training (NVT) groups completed 108 trials of a 10-ft putt. After a 24-hr delay, both groups completed sighted- and blind-putting tests. Results: Acquisition results revealed Group x Block interactions in RE (p = .025) and y-VE (p = .032). Post hoc procedures revealed significant differences between the groups on Block 2 (p = .017), with the NVT group producing longer mean RE. During testing, RE and x-VE results revealed Group x Test interactions (p = .027 & .041), such that performance of the VT group suffered when transferred to blind putting, while performance of the NVT group did not differ when transferred. Conclusion: NVT did not confer any advantage for subsequent performance with vision. Moreover, results were not consistent with the specificity of learning hypothesis and suggest that putting does not rely on complete sensory integration to support subsequent performance. Presumably, task requirements related to body positioning provided adequate sensory cues for successful performance.		[Fisher, Kevin M.] Cent Michigan Univ, Mt Pleasant, MI 48859 USA; [Fairbrother, Jeffrey T.] Univ Tennessee, Knoxville, TN 37996 USA; [Fisher, Kevin M.] Cent Michigan Univ, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, 195 Student Act Ctr, Mt Pleasant, MI 48859 USA								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000499010800001	32	Article; Article		
J	Gomez-Moya, Rosinna; Diaz, Rosalinda; Vaca-Palomares, Israel; Fernandez-Ruiz, Juan								Procedural and Strategic Visuomotor Learning Deficits in Children with Developmental Coordination Disorder								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				91	3			386	393		10.1080/02701367.2019.1675852			JUL 2 2020	2020	Purpose: Developmental coordination disorder (DCD) is characterized by poor coordination and clumsiness in children. Subjects often show unsteady gait, frequent tripping, and difficulty holding objects. Here we evaluated the implicit and explicit motor learning capabilities of children with DCD. Method: We assessed a total of 80 children (4-12 years old). These children were divided into two groups of 40 participants each. One group with DCD diagnosis and a control group. Using a prism adaptation paradigm, we evaluated whether DCD affects procedural visuomotor adaptation. This adaptation typically occurs during the laterally displacing prism adaptation task. We contrasted these results with the performance during a reversing prism adaptation task, which mainly places demands on strategic visuomotor learning. To solve both adaptation tasks, subjects must perform the same movements, but using two completely different approaches. Results: There was a significant variable error difference between groups, confirming a motor control deficit in individuals with DCD. This group also showed significant visuomotor learning deficits in the displacing task, including less adaptation and smaller aftereffect. The analysis on the reversing task revealed a significant larger number of subjects with DCD that could not adapt, suggesting significant strategic visuomotor learning deficits in this group too. Conclusions: These results demonstrate procedural and strategic visuomotor deficits in this sample of children with DCD.		[Gomez-Moya, Rosinna; Fernandez-Ruiz, Juan] Univ Veracruzana, Xalapa, Veracruz, Mexico; [Diaz, Rosalinda; Vaca-Palomares, Israel; Fernandez-Ruiz, Juan] Univ Nacl Autonoma Mexico, Mexico City, DF, Mexico; [Fernandez-Ruiz, Juan] Univ Nacl Autonoma Mexico, Fac Med, Dept Fisiol, Coyoacan 04510, Mexico								10							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000499000200001	34	Article; Article		
J	Ibanez, Sergio J.; Perez-Goye, Emilio; Garcia-Rubio, Javier; Courel-Ibanez, Javier								Effects of task constraints on training workload in elite women's soccer								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				15	1			99	107	1747954119891158	10.1177/1747954119891158			FEB 2020	2020	The purposes of this study were to identify which major constraint contributes to greater task workload and to determine distinctive training task profiles using an integrative approach during a regular season from a professional women's soccer team. Twenty-seven elite soccer players from a team competing in the first Spanish women's soccer league participated in this study. Data were obtained from 46 training sessions (112 training tasks) along five competitive months. Workload measures were collected using the SIATE integrative assessment tool and heart rate monitors during the team's regular training routine. Results from cluster analysis effectively classified four types of training activities that caused a distinct physiological response from players. The most relevant constraints that increased the task workload were, in order of influence: interaction possibilities, opposition degree, simultaneous participation, game space, competitive workload and intensity. In turn, internal training load monitoring by heart rate seems to be worthless during technical-tactical soccer drills. These results provide coaches an easy, affordable and more informative tool to quantify the training workload. Whereas this information requires observational assessment tools to be obtained, these methods should be considered as a complement to wearables devices for training load control and monitoring in field sports.		[Ibanez, Sergio J.; Perez-Goye, Emilio; Garcia-Rubio, Javier] Univ Extremadura, GOERD, Fac Sport Sci, Caceres, Spain; [Courel-Ibanez, Javier] Univ Murcia, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Act & Sport, E-30001 Murcia, Spain; [Garcia-Rubio, Javier] Univ Extremadura, GOERD, Fac Sport Sci, Caceres, Spain								31							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000499538200001	53	Article; Article		
J	Harden, Mellissa; Bruce, Claire; Wolf, Alex; Hicks, Kirsty M.; Howatson, Glyn								Exploring the practical knowledge of eccentric resistance training in high-performance strength and conditioning practitioners								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				15	1			41	52	1747954119891154	10.1177/1747954119891154			FEB 2020	2020	Habitual use of eccentric exercise has been recognised to increase strength and power; however, the current body of knowledge has limited potential to understand the application of such resistance training in athletic populations. In order to develop appropriate applied research, that relates to elite athletic populations, it is vital to appreciate the practical knowledge of strength and conditioning practitioners operating in high-performance environments. This study summarised the questionnaire responses from 100 strength and conditioning practitioners operating in performance sport relating to questions such as the training effects to various eccentric resistance training regimes, the rationale for the use of these techniques and the knowledge supporting its application. The combination of closed and open-ended questions enabled a thematic analysis to be conducted. There was evidence that practitioners employed a variety of eccentric training methodologies; however, there was interest in gaining greater understanding of the training dose to bring about the optimal adaptive changes, and importantly how this might translate to sport-specific performance. In addition, practitioners would welcome recommendations associated with eccentric training, whilst concurrently minimising the issues of excessive fatigue, muscle damage and soreness. The training effects of interest included neural, architectural and morphological adaptations and, importantly, translation to performance of sports-specific skills. Collectively, these responses called for more practically relevant research to be conducted within the high-performance environment, alongside more opportunities for professional development through learning and knowledge-sharing opportunities. The outcomes summarised in this work should inform future applied research projects and educational content relating to eccentric training.		[Harden, Mellissa; Bruce, Claire; Hicks, Kirsty M.; Howatson, Glyn] Northumbria Univ, Fac Hlth & Life Sci, Dept Sport Exercise & Rehabil, Newcastle Upon Tyne, Tyne & Wear, England; [Harden, Mellissa; Wolf, Alex] English Inst Sport, Manchester, Lancs, England; [Harden, Mellissa] Univ Salford, Directorate Psychol & Sport, Salford, Lancs, England; [Howatson, Glyn] Northwest Univ, Sch Environm Sci & Dev, Water Res Grp, Potchefstroom, South Africa; [Howatson, Glyn] Northumbria Univ, Fac Hlth & Life Sci, Dept Sport Exercise & Rehabil, Newcastle Upon Tyne, Tyne & Wear, England								24							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000499514300001	31	Article; Article		
J	Zhang, Cui; Yu, Bing; Yang, Chen; Yu, Jiabin; Sun, Yuliang; Wang, Donghai; Yin, Keyi; Zhuang, Wei; Liu, Yu								Effects of shank mass manipulation on sprinting techniques								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				21	2			142	154		10.1080/14763141.2019.1646796			FEB 7 2022	2022	The purpose of this study was to determine the effects of shank mass manipulation on the sprinting technique in maximal-speed sprinting. Sixteen well-trained male athletes sprinted with and without an additional 15% of shank mass attached to the shank centre of mass. Kinematic data were collected using a 12-camera motion analysis system and analysed using linear regression analyses with categorical variables and paired t-tests. The sprinting speed (p < 0.01), knee flexion angle at landing (p = 0.028), and maximum hip flexion angular velocity (p = 0.029) decreased; contact time (p < 0.01) increased; and step length, step frequency, and other analysed technique measures of maximal-speed sprinting were unchanged (p >= 0.12) with shank mass manipulation, compare with no manipulation. The relationships of sprinting speed with critical linear and angular kinematics at landing, take-off and swing in maximal-speed sprinting were not affected by the shank mass manipulation. These results suggest that 15% shank mass manipulation does not change the sprinting technique of well-trained male athletes in maximal-speed sprinting. This supports the use of shank mass manipulation as a training method for well-trained sprinters; however, a change in correlations between sprinting speed and technique measures should be considered during such training.		[Zhang, Cui; Wang, Donghai; Yin, Keyi; Zhuang, Wei; Liu, Yu] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Kinesiol, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Cui] Shandong Inst Sports Sci, Sports Biomech Lab, Jinan, Shandong, Peoples R China; [Yu, Bing] Univ N Carolina, Sch Med, Div Phys Therapy, Chapel Hill, NC 27515 USA; [Yang, Chen] McGill Univ, Dept Kinesiol & Phys Educ, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Yu, Jiabin] Ningbo Univ, Res Acad Grand Hlth, Fac Sport Sci, Ningbo, Zhejiang, Peoples R China; [Sun, Yuliang] Shaanxi Normal Univ, Sch Phys Educ, Xian, Shaanxi, Peoples R China; [Liu, Yu] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Kinesiol, Shanghai, Peoples R China								5							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000499756300001	34	Article; Article		
J	Morais, Jorge E.; Marques, Mario C.; Rodriguez-Rosell, David; Barbosa, Tiago M.; Marinho, Daniel A.								Relationship between thrust, anthropometrics, and dry-land strength in a national junior swimming team								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				48	3			304	311		10.1080/00913847.2019.1693240			JUL 2 2020	2020	Objectives: This study aimed to (i) assess an anthropometric and thrust inter-limb asymmetry, and; (ii) determine the contribution of anthropometrics, and dry-land upper-body strength and power to the thrust of talented adolescent swimmers. Methods: Eighteen talented adolescent swimmers (12 boys and 6 girls: 15.81 +/- 1.62 years old) were evaluated. A set of anthropometric, dry-land upper-body strength and power, and in-water thrust were assessed. Results: Despite the fact that the dominant side presented higher values in anthropometrics (except for the hand surface area) and thrust, non-significant inter-limb differences were found. The symmetry index indicated a symmetry between upper-limbs. Hierarchical linear modeling retained as main predictors of each upper-limb thrust the respective hand surface area (dominant upper limb: estimate = 0.293, 95CI: 0.117; 0.469, p = 0.005; non-dominant upper limb: estimate = 0.295, 95CI: 0.063; 0.526, p = 0.025). The full stroke cycle retained the upper-body dry-land strength as main predictor (estimate = 0.397, 95CI: 0.189; 0.605, p = 0.002). Conclusion: The hand surface area and upper-body strength were the main predictors of each upper-limb and full stroke cycle thrust, respectively. Hence, coaches and practitioners should aim to carefully maximize the hand surface area (by finger spreading) while performing the stroke, as well as dry-land upper-body strength in order to enhance the performance.		[Morais, Jorge E.; Marques, Mario C.; Marinho, Daniel A.] Univ Beira Interior, Dept Sport Sci, P-6201001 Covilha, Portugal; [Morais, Jorge E.; Barbosa, Tiago M.] Inst Politecn Braganca, Dept Sport Sci, Braganca, Portugal; [Barbosa, Tiago M.] Nanyang Technol Univ, Natl Inst Educ, Singapore, Singapore; [Morais, Jorge E.; Marques, Mario C.; Barbosa, Tiago M.; Marinho, Daniel A.] Univ Beira Interior, Res Ctr Sports Hlth & Human Dev CIDESD, Covilha, Portugal; [Rodriguez-Rosell, David] Univ Pablo Olavide, Phys Performance & Sports Res Ctr, Seville, Spain; [Morais, Jorge E.] Univ Beira Interior, Dept Sport Sci, P-6201001 Covilha, Portugal								35							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000499490300001	45	Article; Article		
J	Sugi, Shusei; Nunome, Hiroyuki; Tamura, Yuji; Iga, Takahito; Lake, Mark								Contribution of lower body segment rotations in various height soccer volley kicking								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				21	6			669	684		10.1080/14763141.2019.1667422			JUL 3 2022	2022	We aimed to quantify the contribution of lower body segment rotations in producing foot velocity during the soccer volley kick. Fifteen male experienced university players kicked a soccer ball placed at four height conditions (0, 25, 50 and 75 cm). Their kicking motion was captured at 500 Hz. The effectiveness of lower body segment rotations in producing forward (F-fv) and upward (F-uv) foot velocity were computed and time integrated. Major contributors for F-fv were a) left hip linear velocity, b) knee extension and c) pelvis retroflexion (the pitch rotation). The contribution of a) become smaller as the ball height increased while those of b) and c) did not change significantly. Moreover, the pelvis clockwise rotation (the yaw rotation) showed apparent contribution only for volley kicking (except 0 cm height). Major contributors for F-uv were 1) knee flexion, 2) hip internal rotation, 3) pelvis clockwise rotation (the roll rotation) and 4) hip flexion. The contributions of 1) and 4) become consistently smaller as the ball height increased, while those of 2) and 3) become larger systematically. Soccer volley kicking was found to have unique adaptations of segmental contributions to achieve higher foot position while maintain foot forward velocity.		[Sugi, Shusei] Fukuoka Univ, Grad Sch Sports & Hlth Sci, Fukuoka, Fukuoka, Japan; [Nunome, Hiroyuki; Tamura, Yuji; Iga, Takahito] Fukuoka Univ, Fac Sports & Hlth Sci, Fukuoka, Fukuoka, Japan; [Lake, Mark] Liverpool John Moores Univ, Sch Sports & Exercise Sci, Liverpool, Merseyside, England; [Sugi, Shusei] Fukuoka Univ, Grad Sch Sports & Hlth Sci, Fukuoka, Fukuoka, Japan								2							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000498371600001	15	Article; Article		
J	Pikos, Anna Katharina; Straub, Alexander								Mind the Absent Gap: Gender-Specific Competitive Behavior in Nonprofessional Sports								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				21	3			215	233	1527002519887414	10.1177/1527002519887414			APR 2020	2020	There is wide evidence for gender differences in competitive behavior and performance under pressure from experimental economics and single-sex professional sports. We analyze these differences in a sport with direct gender competition. Our unique data consist of over 500,000 observations from around 11,000 German ninepin bowling games of which around 15% are from mixed-gender leagues. Men perform better against women on average, but this is fully explained by differences in ability. Our results are robust to instrumenting for opposite gender using the sex composition of the opponent team. Gender differences in tight situations do not seem to play a role.		[Pikos, Anna Katharina; Straub, Alexander] Leibniz Univ Hannover Konigsworther, Inst Labour Econ, Hannover, Germany; [Pikos, Anna Katharina] Leibniz Univ Hannover, Inst Labour Econ, Konigsworther Pl 1, D-30167 Hannover, Germany								4							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000498130400001	34	Article; Article		
J	Jones, Willis A.								A Benford Analysis of National Collegiate Athletic Association Division I Finance Data								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				21	3			234	255	1527002519887430	10.1177/1527002519887430			APR 2020	2020	The Equity in Athletics Disclosure Act (EADA) database and the USA Today NCAA athletics department finance database are two of the most commonly used databases for scholars, policy makers, and other constituents interested in studying the economics of college athletics. Many in the higher education community, however, question the validity of these databases. This study used Benford's Law of First Digits as a tool for spotting irregularities in EADA and USA Today college athletics financial data. After reviewing 5 years of data, the findings show that while there was some slight deviation from Benford's Law, EADA and USA Today data largely conformed to the expectations of Benford's Law.		[Jones, Willis A.] Univ Kentucky, Educ Policy Studies & Evaluat, 131 Taylor Educ Bldg, Lexington, KY 40506 USA; [Jones, Willis A.] Univ Kentucky, Educ Policy Studies & Evaluat, 131 Taylor Educ Bldg, Lexington, KY 40506 USA								0							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000498321900001	35	Article; Article		
J	Maughan, Patrick C.; Swinton, Paul A.								Physiological and perceptual responses of youth soccer players to an intensified period of competition								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				15	1			72	81	1747954119889950	10.1177/1747954119889950			FEB 2020	2020	Intensified periods of competition create large increase in physical workload and can expose soccer players to numerous playing styles. The purpose of the study was to investigate the response of youth soccer players to an intensified period of competition and assess whether initial fitness influenced outcomes. Elite males across two consecutive years (n(1) = 18, n(2) = 18) were assessed for lower body strength and high-intensity endurance. Objective and subjective measures of fatigue were collected throughout five-day international tournaments using countermovement jumps (CMJ), a perceptual wellness questionnaire and match GPS data. Mixed effects models quantified the effects of time and fitness on outcomes. In general, results were consistent across both years. No significant interaction effects were obtained between time and fitness variables for any outcome ( chi 4 2 <= 6.5; p >= .225). CMJ height and power remained consistent across both tournaments ( chi 4 2 <= 5.3; p >= .262). In contrast, significant ( chi 4 2 >= 17.7; p < .003) effects of time were obtained for GPS data with metrics exhibiting U-shape patterns with values returning to initial levels during final games. Greater variation was obtained for perceptual wellness data; however, responses to general muscle soreness and stress levels showed consistent decreases across both years ( chi 4 2 >= 12.7; p <= .013). Practitioners should be aware that basic measures collected from CMJ and GPS data may not be sensitive to fatigue accrued in youth soccer players across intensified periods of competition. In contrast, simple perceptual measures including general muscle soreness and stress may be more sensitive and assist with implementation of active recovery or load management strategies.		[Maughan, Patrick C.] Aberdeen Football Club Ltd, Aberdeen, Scotland; [Swinton, Paul A.] Robert Gordon Univ, Sch Hlth Sci, Aberdeen AB10 7QG, Scotland; [Swinton, Paul A.] Robert Gordon Univ, Sch Hlth Sci, Aberdeen AB10 7QG, Scotland								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000497141400001	33	Article; Article		
J	Parker, James; Hellstrom, John; Olsson, M. Charlotte								Differences in kinematics and driver performance in elite female and male golfers								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				21	6			731	747		10.1080/14763141.2019.1683221			JUL 3 2022	2022	The aim of this study was to compare swing kinematic differences between women and men and investigate which variables predict clubhead speed (CHS) and carry distance (CD) whilst accounting for individual variation. Methods: Swing kinematics and driver performance data were collected on 20 (10 women) elite golfers (HCP 0.7 +/- 1.4). We used Bayesian T-test for between sex comparison of swing kinematics and Bayesian Analysis of covariance (ANCOVA) to produce general linear models for CHS and carry distance for elite female and male golfers separately. Results: There was strong evidence that the driver performance variables CHS and CD were decreased in women compared to men, and two kinematic variables; time to arm peak speed downswing and angular wrist peak speed were slower in women. The ANCOVAs identified very strong to overwhelming evidence that participant as a fixed factor was a determinant of CHS for both women and men but was not a determinant of CD. Conclusion: when looking to enhance driver performance among high-level golfers, coaches should be aware that variables that determine CHS and CD differ among women and men and if the aim is to improve CHS coaches should not forget the importance of individual swing characteristics.		[Parker, James; Olsson, M. Charlotte] Halmstad Univ, Sch Business Engn & Sci, Rydberg Lab Appl Sci, Halmstad, Sweden; [Parker, James] Halmstad Univ, Ctr Res Welf Hlth & Sport, Halmstad, Sweden; [Parker, James] Scandinavian Coll Sport, Gothenburg, Sweden; [Hellstrom, John] Swedish Golf Federat, Stockholm, Sweden; [Parker, James] Halmstad Univ, Sch Business Engn & Sci, Rydberg Lab Appl Sci, Halmstad, Sweden; [Parker, James] Halmstad Univ, Ctr Res Welf Hlth & Sport, Halmstad, Sweden; [Parker, James] Scandinavian Coll Sport, Gothenburg, Sweden								12							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000496368700001	39	Article; Article		
J	Homma, Miwako; Okamoto, Yuma; Takagi, Hideki								How do elite artistic swimmers generate fluid forces by hand during sculling motions?								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				22	12			1764	1778		10.1080/14763141.2019.1671485			DEC 2 2023	2023	The purpose of this study was to clarify how elite artistic (synchronised) swimmers generate fluid forces with their hands during two kinds of sculling motions: flat sculling in the back-layout position and support sculling in the vertical position. We used the pressure-distribution measuring method to estimate unsteady fluid forces acting on the hand during sculling motions performed by seven elite artistic swimmers. In addition, we simultaneously analysed sculling motions using three dimensional-direct linear transformation methods. We found that sculling motions continuously generated fluid forces that are large during the stroke phase and small during the transition phase. Lift force was efficiently generated, and a large upward propulsive force was obtained during the stroke phase in both flat and support sculling. During the outside transition from out- to in-sculling, the net vertical load (= gravitational force-buoyant force) was supported by the drag force. In both flat and support sculling, artistic swimmers generated an even fluid force in the upward direction during the in-sculling and out-sculling phases to maintain a stable position.		[Homma, Miwako; Okamoto, Yuma; Takagi, Hideki] Univ Tsukuba, Fac Hlth & Sport Sci, Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan; [Takagi, Hideki] Univ Tsukuba, Fac Hlth & Sport Sci, Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan								5							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000496106400001	38	Article; Article		
J	Perez-Castilla, Alejandro; Javier Rojas, F.; Garcia-Ramos, Amador								Reliability and magnitude of loaded countermovement jump performance variables: a technical examination of the jump threshold initiation								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				21	5			622	636		10.1080/14763141.2019.1682649			MAY 28 2022	2022	Different thresholds have been used to determine the start of the force-time analysis during countermovement jump testing. This study examined the influence of the jump starting threshold on the reliability and magnitude of loaded countermovement jump (CMJ) performance variables. Seventeen males were tested during two sessions using five loading conditions (17-30-45-60-75 kg). The CMJ performance was analysed with a force platform. The initiation of the eccentric phase was defined as the first instant in which the vertical ground reaction force was below system weight by 10 N, 50 N, 1% of system weight (1%SW), 10% of system weight (10%SW) and five standard deviations of system weight minus 30 ms (5SDSW). The 50 N, 10%SW and 5SDSW provided a higher reliability for the mean values of velocity and power as well as for the temporal variables only during the eccentric phase compared to the 10 N and 1%SW threshold (CV ratio>1.15). The magnitude of several variables collected during both phases for the 50 N, 10%SW and 5SDSW thresholds significantly differed with respect to 10 N and 1%SW thresholds (p< 0.05). These results suggest that the jump starting threshold may influence both the reliability and magnitude of loaded CMJ performance variables, especially during the eccentric phase.		[Perez-Castilla, Alejandro; Javier Rojas, F.; Garcia-Ramos, Amador] Univ Granada, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Granada, Spain; [Garcia-Ramos, Amador] Catholic Univ Most Holy Concepcion, Fac Educ, Dept Sports Sci & Phys Conditioning, CIEDE, Concepcion, Chile; [Perez-Castilla, Alejandro] Univ Granada, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Granada, Spain								20							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000495811200001	29	Article; Article		
J	Gdovin, Jacob R.; Wade, Chip; Williams, Charles C.; Luginsland, Lauren A.; Wilson, Samuel J.; Garner, John C.								Impact of shoe and cleat type on youth baseball pitching biomechanics								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				21	6			761	772		10.1080/14763141.2019.1679243			JUL 3 2022	2022	Shoulder and elbow injuries among baseball pitchers of various ages and abilities continue to rise despite exhaustive efforts analysing pitch type and count; however, it has yet been determined if footwear plays a role in altering pitching mechanics and subsequently injury susceptibility. Therefore, the purpose of the study was to investigate the effect footwear might have on youth baseball pitching mechanics. Data were collected on eleven youth baseball pitchers wearing two different shoes on two different surface inclinations. A repeated measures ANOVA was utilised to determine differences between upper and lower extremity joint kinematics and kinetics (p < 0.05). Results indicate wearing moulded cleats elicited significantly greater amounts of shoulder internal rotation torque, angle and velocity as well as elbow varus torque. Turf shoes caused an increased plantarflexion joint angle in the stride leg ankle and shoulder external rotation torque, angle and velocity. The findings of this study suggest that the footwear worn by a youth baseball pitcher does alter the shoulder and elbow dynamics in the dominant throwing arm as well as the amount of ankle plantarflexion in the stride leg.		[Gdovin, Jacob R.] Missouri State Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Springfield, MO 65897 USA; [Wade, Chip] Auburn Univ, Dept Ind & Syst Engn, Auburn, AL 36849 USA; [Williams, Charles C.] LaGrange Coll, Dept Exercise Sci, La Grange, GA USA; [Luginsland, Lauren A.] Univ Mississippi, Dept Hlth Exercise Sci & Recreat Management, University, MS 38677 USA; [Wilson, Samuel J.] Georgia Southern Univ, Dept Hlth Sci & Kinesiol, Statesboro, GA USA; [Garner, John C.] Troy Univ, Dept Kinesiol & Hlth Promot, Troy, AL USA; [Gdovin, Jacob R.] Missouri State Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Springfield, MO 65897 USA								4							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000495831400001	25	Article; Article		
J	Brand, Andreas; Sepp, Thomas; Kloepfer-Kraemer, Isabella; Muessig, Janina Anna; Kroeger, Inga; Wackerle, Hannes; Augat, Peter								Upper Body Posture and Muscle Activation in Recreational Cyclists: Immediate Effects of Variable Cycling Setups								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				91	2			298	308		10.1080/02701367.2019.1665620			APR 2 2020	2020	Purpose: Discomfort during cycling can be counteracted by adjusting the seat position. However, the influence of changes in cycling position regarding quantitative biomechanical adaptions of the upper body in recreational cyclists is unclear. This study aims to investigate the effects of saddle position and reach distance on upper body kinematics and muscle activation. Methods: Twelve recreational cyclists were investigated in four different sitting positions on an adjustable cycle trainer. Trunk, pelvis, shoulder, elbow and spinal kinematics as well as lower back and elbow extensor activity were analyzed for combinations of normal and shortened reach distance including horizontal and 10 degrees downward inclined saddle positions. Results: An inclined saddle increased activation of elbow extensors by almost 23 +/- 8% (p < .01) while a shortened reach distance resulted in a more posterior pelvic tilt of up to 18 +/- 2% (p < .01) and less trunk forward lean of 10 +/- 9% (p < .01). Shoulder flexion reduced by up to 23 +/- 16% (p < .05) while elbow flexion increased by 15 +/- 22% (p < .05) with a shortened reach distance. No differences between configurations were found for spinal kinematics and lower back muscle activity. Conclusions: Changing the reach distance showed considerable biomechanical effects on upper body kinematics of the pelvis and trunk rather than on the spine or on lower back muscle activity. For reach distance, most compensation of postural changes of the upper body occurred by changes of shoulder and elbow angles while elbow extensor activation was only altered by saddle downward inclination.		[Brand, Andreas; Sepp, Thomas; Kloepfer-Kraemer, Isabella; Muessig, Janina Anna; Kroeger, Inga; Wackerle, Hannes; Augat, Peter] Berufsgenossenschaftl Unfallklin Murnau, Murnau, Germany; [Brand, Andreas; Sepp, Thomas; Kloepfer-Kraemer, Isabella; Muessig, Janina Anna; Kroeger, Inga; Wackerle, Hannes; Augat, Peter] Paracelsus Med Univ Salzburg, Salzburg, Austria; [Brand, Andreas] Berufsgenossenschaftl Unfallklin Murnau, Inst Biomech, Prof Kuentscher Str 8, D-82418 Murnau, Germany								24							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000496095100001	38	Article; Article		
J	Music, Kasim								The Undesirable Consequences of Doping Regulations:Why Stricter Efforts Might Strengthen Doping Incentives								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				21	3			281	303	1527002519885425	10.1177/1527002519885425			APR 2020	2020	We analyze the impact of doping regulations on the doping decisions of athletes in a Tullock contest. We show that stricter anti-doping regulations may increase the profits of doped athletes, which makes doping more sustainable in the long run. Under certain conditions, a naturally more able athlete may receive a lower payoff than his naturally less able competitor, reversing the natural payoff order. We consider the case of different anti-doping agencies and show that harmonization of doping regulations may increase the doping intensity. We point out incentive problems that may arise in the case of strategic interaction between anti-doping agencies.		[Music, Kasim] Ruhr Univ Bochum, Fac Management & Econ, Univ Str 150, D-44801 Bochum, Germany; [Music, Kasim] Ruhr Univ Bochum, Fac Management & Econ, Univ Str 150, D-44801 Bochum, Germany								4							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000496069600001	21	Article; Article		
J	Van Reeth, Daam; Osokin, Nikita								The Impact of Hosting the 2018 FIFA World Cup on Differences in TV Viewership Between Seasoned Football Fans and Occasional Watchers of Football Games in Russia								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				21	3			256	280	1527002519885421	10.1177/1527002519885421			APR 2020	2020	This article explores Russian TV viewership for football games at seven international football tournaments from 2006 to 2018. The research goal is 2-fold. First, we identify the determinants of Russian viewership for football mega-events. We focus on patriotism effects, and we check for any hosting impact of the 2018 FIFA World Cup in Russia. Second, we analyze how these determinants differ in explaining two distinct TV metrics: Audience Size and Reach. Results indicate that the metrics are partially driven by different determinants which can be linked to two types of viewers: seasoned football fans and occasional watchers of football games.		[Van Reeth, Daam] Katholieke Univ Leuven, Fac Econ & Business, Econ, Brussels, Belgium; [Osokin, Nikita] Financial Univ Govt Russian Federat, Ctr Sectoral Res & Consulting, Moscow, Russia; [Van Reeth, Daam] Katholieke Univ Leuven, Campus Brussels,Warmoesberg 26, B-1000 Brussels, Belgium								9							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000496062400001	38	Article; Article		
J	Umstattd Meyer, M. Renee; Prochnow, Tyler; Bridges, Christina N.; Carlton, Troy; Wilkins, Emily; Arnold, Kimberly T.; McClendon, Megan E.; McKenzie, Thomas; Pollack Porter, Keshia M.								Assessing Physical Activity in Temporary Spaces: Application of SOPARC/iSOPARC® for Play Streets								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				91	2			346	353		10.1080/02701367.2019.1656793			APR 2 2020	2020	Purpose: The System for Observing Play and Recreation in Communities (SOPARC) is a valid, reliable method for understanding how people engage in physical activity (PA) in various permanent settings (e.g., parks) and contexts. However, its utility, reliability, and validity in temporary spaces has not been examined. Temporary spaces can provide PA opportunities often absent in low-income communities due to inadequate safe permanent PA spaces. Play Streets involve temporary closure of streets or other publicly accessibly spaces (e.g., parking lots, open-fields) to create safe play spaces for a specified time-period. We describe the utility, reliability, and validity of using SOPARC to assess PA in temporary spaces like Play Streets. Method: Trained SOPARC/iSOPARC (iPad App) research staff completed systematic observations during Play Streets occurring in four diverse low-income rural U.S. communities during summer 2017. Results: We successfully used iSOPARC to document PA and how spaces were used at Play Streets (n = 16), confirming its utility, reliability, and validity. Unlike observations of permanent spaces, target areas could not be pre-established since play spaces often changed during set-up, requiring time onsite to identify target areas and boundaries. Play areas frequently appeared and/or disappeared during Play Streets, and this was systematically addressed by using physical target area boundaries instead of activities. Conclusions: Understanding how temporary spaces are used for PA is critical for promoting their use. SOPARC/iSOPARC methods are useful in a Play Streets' context; however, systematic methods and training are needed to address inherent unpredictable and dynamic changes within and across target areas.		[Umstattd Meyer, M. Renee; Prochnow, Tyler; Bridges, Christina N.; Wilkins, Emily; McClendon, Megan E.] Baylor Univ, Waco, TX 76798 USA; [Carlton, Troy] North Carolina State Univ, Raleigh, NC USA; [Arnold, Kimberly T.; Pollack Porter, Keshia M.] Johns Hopkins Univ, Baltimore, MD 21218 USA; [McKenzie, Thomas] San Diego State Univ, San Diego, CA 92182 USA; [Carlton, Troy] Catawba Coll, Salisbury, NC USA; [Arnold, Kimberly T.] Univ Penn, Philadelphia, PA 19104 USA; [McClendon, Megan E.] Texas State Univ, San Marcos, TX USA; [Umstattd Meyer, M. Renee] Baylor Univ, Dept Publ Hlth, One Bear Pl 97343, Waco, TX 76798 USA								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000494367800001	24	Article; Article		
J	Watanabe, Nicholas Masafumi; Pegoraro, Ann; Yan, Grace; Shapiro, Stephen L.								Does rivalry matter? An analysis of sport consumer interest on social media								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				20	4			646	665		10.1108/IJSMS-07-2018-0070			NOV 4 2019	2019	Purpose Previous research on rivalry games in sport has predominantly focused on understanding the nature of these games and their effects on consumer behavior. As such, the purpose of this paper is to conduct an empirical examination to provide better theoretical and empirical understanding of how rivalries may impact the posting of content online. Design/methodology/approach This research utilizes Twitter data measuring the number of posts by individuals about college football teams to model how often fans create content during game days. The models in this study were estimated using fixed-effects panel regressions. Findings After controlling for a number of factors, including the type of rivalry game, results indicate fans post more during traditional rivalries. Furthermore, newer rivalry games had less impact on the amount of content posted about a team. Originality/value To date, there has been little examination considering whether rivalries affect behaviors in the digital realm. Therefore, the current investigation is one of the first studies to examine how rivalries impact social media behavior.		[Watanabe, Nicholas Masafumi; Yan, Grace; Shapiro, Stephen L.] Univ South Carolina, Dept Sport & Entertainment Management, Columbia, SC 29208 USA; [Pegoraro, Ann] Laurentian Univ, Fac Management, Sch Sports Adm, Inst Sport Mkt, Sudbury, ON, Canada; [Watanabe, Nicholas Masafumi] Univ South Carolina, Dept Sport & Entertainment Management, Columbia, SC 29208 USA								17							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000491475400007	66	Article; Article		
J	Girish, V. G.; Lee, Choong-Ki								The relationships of brand experience, sports event image and loyalty Case of Jeju International Ultramarathon Race								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				20	4			567	582		10.1108/IJSMS-08-2017-0095			NOV 4 2019	2019	Purpose The purpose of this paper is to investigate the relationships among brand experience, sports event image and loyalty in the Jeju International Ultramarathon Race. Design/methodology/approach Data were collected from 313 ultramarathon runners during the 16th Jeju International Ultramarathon Race. Statistical analyses were carried out using confirmatory factor analysis and structural equation modeling. Findings An analysis of the relationship between brand experience and sports event image revealed that affective experience is the most influential dimension, followed by sensory and behavioral experiences. However, intellectual experience showed insignificant relationship. Sports event image indicated a positive effect on word-of-mouth and revisit intention. Social implications Social networking sites may be used to maintain continuous interaction with the runners and followers. Supporting a social cause is another measure to generate the intellectual experience of sports events. The result of this study shows no significant relationship between intellectual experience and the sports event image. To increase the worldwide popularity of this race and to attract more international runners, a judicious use of web platforms may be an option to maintain regular contact with a wider group of audience. Originality/value This study is the first to examine the relationship between brand experience and sports event image in an ultramarathon event context. Findings contribute to an understanding of the impact of brand experience on sports event image, thereby influencing the loyalty of runners participating in an ultramarathon event.		[Girish, V. G.] Catholic Univ Korea, Dept Business Adm, Seoul, South Korea; [Lee, Choong-Ki] Kyung Hee Univ, Coll Hotel & Tourism Management, Seoul, South Korea; [Lee, Choong-Ki] Kyung Hee Univ, Coll Hotel & Tourism Management, Seoul, South Korea								44							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000491475400002	82	Article; Article		
J	Alonso Dos Santos, Manuel; Calabuig Moreno, Ferran; Crespo-Hervas, Josep								Influence of perceived and effective congruence on recall and purchase intention in sponsored printed sports advertising An eye-tracking application								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				20	4			617	633		10.1108/IJSMS-10-2018-0099			NOV 4 2019	2019	Purpose The purpose of this paper is to examine the influence of congruence (perceived and effective) and the level of visual attention towards sponsors on recall and purchase intention in sports sponsorship by applying neurophysiological measures. Design/methodology/approach This study is part of neuromarketing research applied to sports. The experiment entails eye tracking with 111 men and 129 women (n=24) with 24 sports posters of three different disciplines (sailing, tennis and F1), varying the congruence, the number of sponsors and the position (2x2x2). The data are analyzed via analysis of covariance and regression using ordinary least squares. Findings Brand recall is influenced by the number of sponsors present on the poster and by the time of fixation. Effective and perceived congruence covariance the purchase intention, but the full time of fixation on the sponsor does not. The latter only, purchase intention indirectly. Originality/value There are few studies that analyze print media in sponsorship using neurophysiological techniques. This research is a pioneer in considering attention to sports posters to examine recall and purchase intention.		[Alonso Dos Santos, Manuel] Univ Catolica Santisima Concepcion, Dept Adm, Concepcion, Chile; [Calabuig Moreno, Ferran; Crespo-Hervas, Josep] Univ Valencia, Fac Phys Educ & Sports, Valencia, Spain; [Crespo-Hervas, Josep] Univ Valencia, Fac Phys Educ & Sports, Valencia, Spain								32							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000491475400005	101	Article; Article		
J	Pritchard, Adrian; Cook, David; Jones, Andrew; Bason, Tom; Salisbury, Paul; Hickman, Ellie								Professional sports teams: going beyond the core								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				20	4			554	566		10.1108/IJSMS-05-2018-0056			NOV 4 2019	2019	Purpose The addition of products to the core of matches by professional sports teams (PSTs) has received much coverage. However, there has been limited work as to how their stadiums are used to stage non-sporting events. The purpose of this paper is to investigate how clubs in the English Football League (EFL) use their venues to diversify into other markets. Design/methodology/approach Secondary sources were used to categorise the teams who played in the EFL by: average division turnover, stadium capacity and stadium age. Semi-structured interviews were held with a member of the commercial teams of 21 clubs. Findings Clubs use their stadiums to supply a range of products and working with partners is commonplace. These products are targeted at a range of stakeholders, such as supporters, the local community and regionally based organisations. In addition to their own efforts, increased geographical coverage for clubs usually develops in three ways: via internal marketing by local organisations who use the facilities, agents who market the stadium for the club and the EFL who market the league/clubs holistically. Originality/value This is one of the first papers to examine the capabilities developed by PSTs that lie outside the staging of matches.		[Pritchard, Adrian] Coventry Univ, Dept Mkt & Management, Coventry, W Midlands, England; [Cook, David] Nottingham Trent Univ, Nottingham, England; [Jones, Andrew] Coventry Univ, Coventry, W Midlands, England; [Bason, Tom; Salisbury, Paul] Coventry Univ, Sch Mkt & Management, Coventry, W Midlands, England; [Hickman, Ellie] DeMontfort Univ, Dept Mkt, Leicester, Leics, England; [Pritchard, Adrian] Coventry Univ, Dept Mkt & Management, Coventry, W Midlands, England								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000491475400001	40	Article; Article		
J	Yaghoubi, Mostafa; Lark, Sally D.; Page, Wyatt H.; Fink, Philip W.; Shultz, Sarah R.								Lower extremity muscle function of front row rugby union scrummaging								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				18	6			636	648		10.1080/14763141.2018.1452972			NOV 2 2019	2019	A rugby scrum's front row must act uniformly to transfer maximal horizontal force and improve performance. This study investigated the muscle activation patterns of lower extremity muscles in front row forwards during live and machine scrums at professional and amateur levels. Electromyography was collected bilaterally on vastus lateralis, rectus femoris and gastrocnemius muscles of 75 male rugby prop players during live and machine scrums. ANOVAs compared muscle reaction time, rate of change in muscle amplitude and muscle amplitude between groups and conditions. Cross-correlation analysis explored muscle synchronicity. There were significantly greater rates of change in each muscle amplitude in professional players than amateur players. Additionally, there was significantly quicker muscle reaction time in all muscles, and greater amplitude in vastus lateralis and gastrocnemius, during the live scrum vs. machine condition. The professional props produced more synchronised muscle activation than amateur players and all players produced more synchronised muscle activation against the scrum machine vs. live scrummage. The results indicate a higher skill proficiency and muscle synchronicity in professional players. While scrum machine training is ideally suited for functional muscle strengthening during practice, to truly simulate the requirements of the scrum, training should incorporate the live situation as much as possible.		[Yaghoubi, Mostafa; Lark, Sally D.; Shultz, Sarah R.] Massey Univ, Sch Sport Exercise & Nutr, Wellington, New Zealand; [Page, Wyatt H.] Massey Univ, Sch Publ Hlth, Wellington, New Zealand; [Fink, Philip W.] Massey Univ, Sch Sport Exercise & Nutr, Human Performance Lab, Palmerston North, New Zealand; [Yaghoubi, Mostafa] Massey Univ, Sch Sport Exercise & Nutr, Wellington, New Zealand								2							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000487274600006	25	Article; Article		
J	Brackley, Victoria; Ball, Kevin; Tor, Elaine								The validation of a swimming turn wall-contact-time measurement system: a touchpad application reliability study								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				18	6			595	607		10.1080/14763141.2018.1452969			NOV 2 2019	2019	The effectiveness of the swimming turn is highly influential to overall performance in competitive swimming. The push-off or wall contact, within the turn phase, is directly involved in determining the speed the swimmer leaves the wall. Therefore, it is paramount to develop reliable methods to measure the wall-contact-time during the turn phase for training and research purposes. The aim of this study was to determine the concurrent validity and reliability of the Pool Pad App to measure wall-contact-time during the freestyle and backstroke tumble turn. The wall-contact-times of nine elite and sub-elite participants were recorded during their regular training sessions. Concurrent validity statistics included the standardised typical error estimate, linear analysis and effect sizes while the intraclass correlating coefficient (ICC) was used for the reliability statistics. The standardised typical error estimate resulted in a moderate Cohen's d effect size with an R-2 value of 0.80 and the ICC between the Pool Pad and 2D video footage was 0.89. Despite these measurement differences, the results from this concurrent validity and reliability analyses demonstrated that the Pool Pad is suitable for measuring wall-contact-time during the freestyle and backstroke tumble turn within a training environment.		[Brackley, Victoria; Ball, Kevin; Tor, Elaine] Victoria Univ, Inst Hlth & Sport, Coll Sport & Exercise Sci, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Brackley, Victoria] Victoria Univ, Inst Hlth & Sport, Coll Sport & Exercise Sci, Melbourne, Vic, Australia								1							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000487274600003	28	Article; Article		
J	Amatria, Mario; Maneiro Dios, Ruben; Antonio Perez-Turpin, Jose; Jose Gomis-Gomis, Maria; Elvira-Aranda, Carlos; Suarez-Llorca, Concepcion								Technical-Tactical Analysis of The Players of the Left and Right Wing in Elite Soccer								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				70	1			233	244		10.2478/hukin-2019-0045			NOV 2019	2019	In today's soccer, teams are increasingly better trained both physically and tactically, hence different game styles can be identified and differences between them reduced. However, without an exhaustive analysis of reality, the view can lead to the extraction of erroneous conclusions, and what seems to be a team with a marked offensive profile is a mere illusion, resulting to be a team that develops a perfectly balanced game. In this paper, an analysis of technical-tactical performance of players who occupied both wings in an elite team was made, taking as reference the Spanish national soccer team as the model of international game to imitate in the last decade. The development of this paper was located within the observational methodology, using the polar coordinates technique for the analysis of the obtained data. The results showed how, despite identifying offensive profiles within technical-tactical performance of players that occupied the outer wings or lanes of the playing field, their tactical means and orientations diverged from each other. The results showed a more offensive profile and with higher technical complexity of players that occupied the left wing, while players that held the right wing showed a more defensive and recuperative profile, indicating a less vertical and complex style of play at a technical level with the forward as an offensive reference.		[Amatria, Mario; Maneiro Dios, Ruben] Pontifical Univ Salamanca, Salamanca, Spain; [Antonio Perez-Turpin, Jose; Jose Gomis-Gomis, Maria; Elvira-Aranda, Carlos; Suarez-Llorca, Concepcion] Univ Alicante, Alicante, Spain; [Antonio Perez-Turpin, Jose] Univ Alicante, Fac Educ, Alicante, Spain								8							Sport Sciences	WOS:000503402200023	29	Article; Article		
J	Ribeiro, Alex S.; Nunes, Joao Pedro; Schoenfeld, Brad J.; Aguiar, Andreo F.; Cyrino, Edilson S.								Effects of Different Dietary Energy Intake Following Resistance Training on Muscle Mass and Body Fat in Bodybuilders: A Pilot Study								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				70	1			125	134		10.2478/hukin-2019-0038			NOV 2019	2019	The purpose of this study was to determine the effects of different amounts of energy intake in combination with progressive resistance training on muscle mass and body fat in bodybuilders. Eleven male bodybuilders (26.8 +/- 2.3 years, 90.1 +/- 9.7 kg, and 176.9 +/- 7.1 cm) were randomly assigned into one of two groups: a group that ingested higher amounts of energy (G1, 67.5 +/- 1.7 kcal/kg/d, n = 6), and a group that ingested moderate amounts of energy (G2, 50.1 +/- 0.51 kcal/kg/d, n = 5). Both groups performed resistance training 6 days per week over a 4-week study period. Measures of body composition were assessed before and after the intervention period. For body fat, only the G1 presented significant changes from pre- to post-training (G1 = +7.4% vs. G2 = +0.8%). For muscle mass, both groups showed significant increases after the intervention period, with G1 presenting a greater increase compared to G2 (G1 = +2.7% vs. G2 = +1.1%). Results suggest that greater energy intake in combination with resistance training induces greater increases in both muscle mass and body fat in competitive male bodybuilders.		[Ribeiro, Alex S.; Aguiar, Andreo F.] Univ Northern Parana, Ctr Res Hlth Sci, Londrina, Parana, Brazil; [Nunes, Joao Pedro; Cyrino, Edilson S.] Univ Estadual Londrina, Metab Nutr & Exercise Lab, Phys Educ & Sport Ctr, Rodovia Celso Garcia Cid,Km 380, Londrina, Parana, Brazil; [Schoenfeld, Brad J.] CUNY, Lehman Coll, Exercise Sci Dept, Bronx, NY USA; [Nunes, Joao Pedro] Univ Estadual Londrina, Metab Nutr & Exercise Lab, Phys Educ & Sport Ctr, Rodovia Celso Garcia Cid,Km 380, Londrina, Parana, Brazil								14							Sport Sciences	WOS:000503402200012	29	Article; Article		
J	Licen, Jerica; Strojnik, Vojko; Tomazin, Katja								Could Ankle Muscle Activation Be Used as a Simple Measure of Balance Exercise Intensity?								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				70	1			47	59		10.2478/hukin-2019-0037			NOV 2019	2019	Few, if any, studies have reported the effects of intensity of balance exercise for balance training and rehabilitation. The aim of the present study was to find a relative measure of intensity of balance exercise. On this basis, we analysed ankle muscle activation in the sagittal plane with increasing difficulty for a one leg stance on a T-board. Ten adults (7 men, 24.1 +/- 3.5 years; 3 women, 30.6 +/- 5.8 years) performed 3 trials on a T-board within 6 randomly assigned stability levels. T-board swaying velocities in the sagittal plane were manipulated to attain different stability levels (conditions). Concurrently, angular distance of the T-board and active balance time (i.e., percentage of a total time balancing) under each condition were measured. Surface electromyography from the tibialis anterior, gastrocnemius and soleus were monitored during one leg stance. The surface electromyography amplitude in the time domain was quantified using the root-mean-square values. Significant effect of stability levels on angular distance (F-5(,)45 = 3.4; p = 0.01) and velocity of the T-board (F-5(,)45= 4.6; p = 0.002) were obtained. Active balance time decreased by similar to 15% (p = 0.001) from the maximal to the minimal stability conditions. The graded level of balance board stability conditions did not generate significantly higher root-mean-square values in any muscles and hence could not be used as a relative measure of intensity of balance exercise. These findings imply that there could be a plateau in difficulty of balance exercise for enhancement of ankle muscle activity.		[Licen, Jerica; Strojnik, Vojko; Tomazin, Katja] Univ Ljubljana, Fac Sport, Ljubljana, Slovenia; [Tomazin, Katja] Fac Sport, Gortanova 22, Ljubljana 1000, Slovenia								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:000503402200005	38	Article; Article		
J	Ueno, Hiromasa; Suga, Tadashi; Takao, Kenji; Miyake, Yuto; Terada, Masafumi; Nagano, Akinori; Isaka, Tadao								The Potential Relationship Between Leg Bone Length and Running Performance in Well-Trained Endurance Runners								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				70	1			165	172		10.2478/hukin-2019-0039			NOV 2019	2019	The present study aimed to determine the relationship between leg bone length and running performance in well-trained endurance runners. The lengths of the leg bones in 42 male endurance runners (age: 20.0 +/- 1.0 years, body height: 169.6 +/- 5.6 cm, body mass: 56.4 +/- 5.1 kg, personal best 5000-m race time: 14 min 59 s +/- 28 s) were measured using magnetic resonance imaging. The lengths of the femur and tibia were calculated to assess the upper and lower leg lengths, respectively. The total length of the femur + tibia was calculated to assess the overall leg bone length. These lengths of the leg bones were normalized with body height, which was measured using a stadiometer to minimize differences in body size among participants. The relative tibial length was significantly correlated with personal best 5000-m race time (r = -0.328, p = 0.034). Moreover, a trend towards significance was observed in the relative femoral length (r = -0.301, p = 0.053). Furthermore, the relative total lengths of the femur + tibia were significantly correlated with personal best 5000-m race time (r = -0.353, p < 0.05). These findings suggest that although the relationship between the leg bone length and personal best 5000-m race time was relatively minor, the leg bone length, especially of the tibia, may be a potential morphological factor for achieving superior running performance in well-trained endurance runners.		[Ueno, Hiromasa; Suga, Tadashi; Takao, Kenji; Miyake, Yuto; Terada, Masafumi; Nagano, Akinori; Isaka, Tadao] Ritsumeikan Univ, Fac Sport & Hlth Sci, 1-1-1 Nojihigashi, Kusatsu, Shiga 5258577, Japan; [Suga, Tadashi] Ritsumeikan Univ, Fac Sport & Hlth Sci, 1-1-1 Nojihigashi, Kusatsu, Shiga 5258577, Japan								10							Sport Sciences	WOS:000503402200016	14	Article; Article		
J	Cai, Guang; Qiu, Jun; Chen, Shuai; Pan, Qile; Shen, Xunzhang; Kang, Jie								Hematological, Hormonal and Fitness Indices in Youth Swimmers: Gender-Related Comparisons								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				70	1			69	80		10.2478/hukin-2019-0027			NOV 2019	2019	This study objective was to evaluate gender differences in hematological, hormonal and fitness variables among youth swimmers and to explore relationships between erythrocyte indices and aerobic and anaerobic capacity. 137 girls and 171 boys participated in the study and were divided into three groups based on their training experience. Blood samples were obtained to determine red blood cell counts, hemoglobin concentration, hematocrit, and plasma erythropoietin and testosterone levels. VO2(max) was assessed using a submaximal cycle protocol. 76 girls and 102 boys also undertook a Wingate test to determine their peak anaerobic power. Boys had higher (p < 0.05) means than girls for all hematological variables except for erythropoietin and these variables demonstrated an increase with training in boys. The average VO2(max) in l.min(-1) and peak anaerobic power in watts were also higher in boys (2.91 +/- 0.08 and 547 +/- 28, respectively) than girls (2.25 +/- 0.07 and 450 +/- 26, respectively). Modest but significant (p < 0.05) correlations were found between VO2(max) and red blood cell counts (r = 0.252), hemoglobin concentration (r = 0.345), or hematocrit (r = 0.345) and between peak anaerobic power and red blood cell counts (r = 0.304), hemoglobin concentration (r = 0.319) or hematocrit (r = 0.351). This study revealed relatively lower yet age- and gender-appropriate hematological, hormonal and fitness indices in youth swimmers. The gender-related differences in erythrocyte indices seem unrelated to erythropoietin and may be explained by the higher testosterone levels seen in boys. Given their correlation to both aerobic and anaerobic capacity, erythrocyte indices may be used as part of talent identification for sports.		[Cai, Guang; Qiu, Jun; Chen, Shuai; Pan, Qile; Shen, Xunzhang] Shanghai Res Inst Sports Sci, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Kang, Jie] Coll New Jersey, Dept Hlth & Exercise Sci, Ewing, NJ 08628 USA; [Kang, Jie] Coll New Jersey, Dept Hlth & Exercise Sci, Ewing, NJ 08628 USA								9							Sport Sciences	WOS:000503402200007	30	Article; Article		
J	Amado, Diana; Maestre, Miryam; Montero-Carretero, Carlos; Antonio Sanchez-Miguel, Pedro; Cervello, Eduardo								Associations Between Self-Determined Motivation, Team Potency, and Self-Talk in Team Sports								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				70	1			245	259		10.2478/hukin-2019-0116			NOV 2019	2019	The current study aimed to evaluate the determinant factors of athletes' internal positive self-talk that might lead to decreased anxiety and increased performance. The sample consisted of 191 male and female athletes ranging in age from 14 to 35 years old. They played soccer, volleyball and basketball and they were cadets (43%), juniors (29.6 %) and adults (27.4%). Results showed that satisfaction of the basic psychological needs was the strongest predictor of positive self-talk or positive thoughts during competition. Specifically, perception of autonomy was the strongest predictor, because it positively predicted concentration, control of anxiety and instructions, followed by perception of competence, which positively predicted confidence. Finally, team sports coaches should promote perception of autonomy and competence in their athletes, with the aim of enhancing more positive self-talk in competition, which may promote a better performance.		[Amado, Diana] Rey Juan Carlos Univ, Phys Educ Area, Sport Studies, Madrid, Spain; [Maestre, Miryam] Univ Murcia, Murcia, Spain; [Montero-Carretero, Carlos; Cervello, Eduardo] Miguel Hernandez Univ Elche, Sports Res Ctr, Alicante, Spain; [Antonio Sanchez-Miguel, Pedro] Univ Extremadura, Teacher Training Coll, Dept Didact Mus Plast & Corporal Express, Caceres, Spain; [Amado, Diana] Rey Juan Carlos Univ, Ctr Sport Studies, Phys Educ Area, Avda Atenas S-N, Madrid 28922, Spain								12							Sport Sciences	WOS:000503402200024	60	Article; Article		
J	Hartmann Nunes, Renan Felipe; Dittrich, Naiandra; Duffield, Rob; Serpa, Marilia Cavalcante; Coelho, Tiago Martins; Martins, Daniel Fernandes; Guglielmo, Luiz Guilherme Antonacci								Effects of Far-Infrared Emitting Ceramic Material Clothing on Recovery After Maximal Eccentric Exercise								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				70	1			135	144		10.2478/hukin-2019-0028			NOV 2019	2019	The purpose of this study was to determine whether Far-Infrared Emitting Ceramic Materials worn as Bioceramic pants would improve neuromuscular performance, biochemical and perceptual markers in healthy individuals after maximal eccentric exercise. Twenty-two moderately active men were randomized into Bioceramic (n = 11) or Placebo (n = 11) groups. To induce muscle damage, three sets of 30 maximal isokinetic eccentric contractions of the quadriceps were performed at 60 degrees.s(-1). Participants wore the bioceramic or placebo pants for 2 hours immediately following the protocol, and then again for 2 hours prior to each subsequent testing session at 24, 48 and 72 hours post. Plasma creatine kinase and lactate dehydrogenase activity, delayed-onset muscle soreness, perceived recovery status, and maximal voluntary contraction were measured pre-exercise and 2, 24, 48, and 72 hours post-exercise. Eccentric exercise induced muscle damage as evident in significant increases in delayed-onset muscle soreness at 24 - 72 hours (p < 0.05) and creatine kinase between Pre to 2, 24, 48 and 72 hours (p < 0.05). Despite the increased delayed-onset muscle soreness and creatine kinase values, no effect of Bioceramic was evident (p > 0.05). Furthermore, decreases in maximal voluntary contraction between Pre and immediately, 2, 24, 48 and 72 hours post (p < 0.05) were reported. However, the standardized difference was moderate lower for lactate dehydrogenase at 24 h (ES = 0.50), but higher at 48 h (ES = -0.58) in the Bioceramic compared to the Placebo group. Despite inducing muscle damage, the daily use of Far-Infrared Emitting Ceramic Materials clothing over 72 hours did not facilitate recovery after maximal eccentric exercise.		[Hartmann Nunes, Renan Felipe; Dittrich, Naiandra; Serpa, Marilia Cavalcante; Coelho, Tiago Martins; Guglielmo, Luiz Guilherme Antonacci] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Dept Phys Educ, Phys Effort Lab, Florianopolis, SC, Brazil; [Duffield, Rob] Univ Technol UTS, Sport & Exercise Discipline Grp, Moore Pk, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Martins, Daniel Fernandes] Univ Southern Santa Catarina, Lab Expt Neurosci, Palhoca, SC, Brazil; [Martins, Daniel Fernandes] Univ Southern Santa Catarina, Postgrad Program Hlth Sci, Palhoca, SC, Brazil; [Hartmann Nunes, Renan Felipe] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Dept Phys Educ, BR-88040900 Florianopolis, SC, Brazil								14							Sport Sciences	WOS:000503402200013	31	Article; Article		
J	Le Menn, Marie; Bossard, Cyril; Travassos, Bruno; Duarte, Ricardo; Kermarrec, Gilles								Handball Goalkeeper Intuitive Decision-Making: A Naturalistic Case Study								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				70	1			297	308		10.2478/hukin-2019-0042			NOV 2019	2019	Goalkeepers hold a key position for success in team sports competitions. They perform in dynamical contexts and are highly submitted to time pressure. The purpose of this naturalistic case study, therefore, was to explore how a handball expert goalkeeper deals with the uncertainty of the competition settings to make successful decisions. An individual self-confrontation interview was held with a goalkeeper while he watched duels with potential throwers in an official competition. A mixed method was used combining the first-person and third-person point of view. Verbal data were supplemented by observational data (distance measures between the goalkeeper and the potential thrower) in 83 short accounts of decision-making situations. Qualitative analysis resulted in 419 units of salient features, in three types of processes related to the Recognition-Primed Decision model, and in four micro-decisions. Non-parametrical statistical analysis indicated that there was a significant effect of distances between the potential thrower and the goalkeeper, on the micro-decision categories, but not on the recognition processes. These results provide insights into cognitive contents and processes an expert goalkeeper can use under uncertainty and time pressure. The mixed method furnishes a meaningful description and a subsequent understanding of expert performances in sport.		[Le Menn, Marie] French Inst Sport INSEP, Res Dept, Lab Sport Expertise & Performance EA 7370, Paris, France; [Bossard, Cyril; Kermarrec, Gilles] European Univ Brittany, European Ctr Virtual Real, CREAD, Brest, France; [Travassos, Bruno] Univ Beira Interior, Res Ctr Sports Hlth Sci & Human Dev, Covilha, Portugal; [Duarte, Ricardo] Univ Lisbon, Fac Motricidade Humana, CIPER, Lisbon, Portugal; [Le Menn, Marie] French Inst Sport INSEP, Res Dept, Lab Sport Expertise & Performance EA 7370, Paris, France; [Le Menn, Marie] Inst Natl Sport Expertise & Performance, Unite Rech, Lab SEP, 11 Ave Tremblay, F-75012 Paris, France								13							Sport Sciences	WOS:000503402200028	32	Article; Article		
J	Gomes, A. Rui; Simaes, Clara; Dias, Olga; Almeida, Catarina; Goncalves, Sonia								Drive for Muscularity and Disordered Eating Behavior in Males: the Mediating Role of Cognitive Appraisal								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				70	1			287	295		10.2478/hukin-2019-0117			NOV 2019	2019	There is mixed evidence for the relationship between increased levels of the drive for muscularity (DFM) and disordered eating behavior in males, therefore this study analysed the relationship between DFM and disordered eating behavior, giving particular relevance to the patterns of cognitive appraisal. A convenience sample was recruited from fitness centres and sport clubs with 308 participants, all males. Losing muscular mass represented a negative experience for participants, promoting a higher perception of threat appraisal. In addition, losing muscular mass was related to more muscularity-oriented behaviors and disordered eating behavior. Cognitive appraisal mediates the relation between DFM and disordered eating behavior. The results highlight the role of cognitive appraisal in DFM and disordered eating behavior in males in sport contexts.		[Gomes, A. Rui; Dias, Olga; Almeida, Catarina; Goncalves, Sonia] Univ Minho, Sch Psychol, Campus Gualtar, P-4710057 Braga, Portugal; [Simaes, Clara] Univ Minho, Sch Nursing, Braga, Portugal; [Goncalves, Sonia] Univ Minho, Sch Psychol, Campus Gualtar, P-4710057 Braga, Portugal								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:000503402200027	35	Article; Article		
J	Silva, Diogo C. F.; Santos, Rubim; Vilas-Boas, Joao Paulo; Macedo, Rui; Montes, Antonio Mesquita; Sousa, Andreia S. P.								Different Cleat Models do Not Influence Side Hop Test Performance of Soccer Players with and without Chronic Ankle Instability								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				70	1			156	164		10.2478/hukin-2019-0029			NOV 2019	2019	The lateral ankle sprain is one of the most common sport injury, representing 10-30% of all musculoskeletal disorders. The lateral ankle sprain is induced by sport gestures involving changes of direction and landing manoeuvres and constitutes a risk factor for the occurrence of chronic ankle instability. Although cleat models and performance have been already explored, no study has evaluated this relationship in athletes with chronic ankle instability. Therefore, the purpose of the study was to analyse the influence of different soccer cleat models on Side Hop Test performance of athletes with and without chronic ankle instability. Thirty-nine athletes were divided into two groups, a chronic ankle instability group (n = 20) and a healthy group (n = 19). Each participant performed the Side Hop Test, executing 10 consecutive jumps on dry artificial grass with 4 cleat models. The Qualisys System and two force platforms were used to analyse the test runtime, the distance travelled and the mean velocity. No statistically significant interaction was observed between the group and the cleat model for all variables evaluated. In addition, no differences were observed between models or groups. In this specific test, performance does not seem to be influenced by different cleat models on dry artificial grass in athletes with and without chronic ankle instability.		[Silva, Diogo C. F.] Polytech Inst Porto, Funct Sci Dept, Ctr Rehabil Res CIR, Sch Hlth,Ctr Human Movement & Act CEMAH, Porto, Portugal; [Santos, Rubim] Polytech Inst Porto, Ctr Rehabil Res CIR, Phys Dept, Sch Hlth,Ctr Human Movement & Act CEMAH, Porto, Portugal; [Vilas-Boas, Joao Paulo] Univ Porto, Porto Biomech Lab LABIOMEP, CIFI2D, Fac Sport, Porto, Portugal; [Macedo, Rui; Montes, Antonio Mesquita; Sousa, Andreia S. P.] Polytech Inst Porto, Ctr Rehabil Res CIR, Physiotherapy Dept, Sch Hlth,Ctr Human Movement & Act CEMAH, Porto, Portugal; [Sousa, Andreia S. P.] Polytech Inst Porto, Ctr Rehabil Res CIR, Physiotherapy Dept, Sch Hlth,Ctr Human Movement & Act CEMAH, Porto, Portugal								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:000503402200015	29	Article; Article		
J	Smaruj, Miroslaw; Orkwiszewska, Anna; Adam, Marek; Jezyk, Damian; Kostrzewa, Maciej; Laskowski, Radoslaw								Changes in Anthropometric Traits and Body Composition Over a Four-Year Period in Elite Female Judoka Athletes								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				70	1			145	155		10.2478/hukin-2019-0115			NOV 2019	2019	The aim of the study was to determine changes in the structure and composition of the body in elite female athletes over a four-year period. The study involved 12 female judo athletes with 34 somatic variables evaluated. Anthropometric evaluation was performed twice, first, when the athletes were members of the national junior team (aged 16.64 +/- 1.26 years), and second, after four years, when they were members of the national senior team (aged 20.78 +/- 1.27 years). The measurements were taken in accordance with the recommendations of the IBP (International Biological Program) with a set of anthropometric instruments (GPM Swiss) while following the Martin-Saller technique. The average body mass, height, BMI, fat free mass (in kg) and body fat content significantly increased, while the percentage of fat free mass significantly decreased. All of the analyzed body circumferences also increased. Increases were recorded in the width of the upper limbs and they were the width of both hands and both elbows. There was also a statistically significant increase in the value of endomorphic and mesomorphic components, while the ectomorphic component value was similar. Body composition and a substantial number of somatic features of female judokas as seniors were not yet set at the junior stage. The predominant type of the body build was the endo-mesomorphic type and changes that occurred in the sample took place mainly in accordance with this tendency.		[Smaruj, Miroslaw] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, Dept Theory Sport & Human Motor, Ul Kazimierza Gorskiego 1, PL-80336 Gdansk, Poland; [Orkwiszewska, Anna] State Higher Vocat Sch Koszalin, Inst Sport & Hlth Studies, Koszalin, Poland; [Adam, Marek] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, Dept Martial Arts, Gdansk, Poland; [Jezyk, Damian] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, Dept Anat & Anthropol, Gdansk, Poland; [Kostrzewa, Maciej] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Dept Sports Training, Katowice, Poland; [Laskowski, Radoslaw] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, Dept Physiol, Gdansk, Poland; [Smaruj, Miroslaw] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, Dept Theory Sport & Human Motor, Ul Kazimierza Gorskiego 1, PL-80336 Gdansk, Poland								8							Sport Sciences	WOS:000503402200014	26	Article; Article		
J	Caetano, Fabio Giuliano; da Silva, Vitor Panula; Torres, Ricardo da Silva; Anido, Ricardo de Oliveira; Cunha, Sergio Augusto; Moura, Felipe Arruda								Analysis of Match Dynamics of Different Soccer Competition Levels Based on The Player Dyads								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				70	1			173	182		10.2478/hukin-2019-0030			NOV 2019	2019	The purpose of this study was to analyse the dynamics of play based on dyads during soccer matches, according to the competition level, period of the matches, and playing positions. We recorded eight Brazilian soccer matches (four of the national and four of the regional level), using up to six digital cameras (30 Hz). The position information of the 204 players in the eight matches was obtained using an automatic tracking system. The Euclidean distance between the nearest opponents was calculated over time to define the dyads. The interaction between the components of dyads was assessed by the distances between players and was compared among the different positions (defender, full-back, defensive midfielder, midfielder, and forward), match periods (15, 30, 45, 60, 75, and 90 min), and competition levels. Results showed smaller distances for the national level dyads, compared to the regional matches. Greater distances between the players were found in the last 15 minutes of the matches, compared to the other periods. The full-backs were more distant from opposing players compared to players from other playing positions. Thus, coaches should consider the characteristics of each playing position and the greater proximity between opponents' players in top-level competition for the development of tactical proficiency of the players.		[Caetano, Fabio Giuliano; da Silva, Vitor Panula; Moura, Felipe Arruda] Univ Estadual Londrina, Londrina, Parana, Brazil; [Torres, Ricardo da Silva; Anido, Ricardo de Oliveira; Cunha, Sergio Augusto] Univ Estadual Campinas, Campinas, SP, Brazil; [Caetano, Fabio Giuliano] Univ Estadual Londrina, Londrina, Parana, Brazil; [Caetano, Fabio Giuliano] Univ Estadual Londrina, Lab Appl Biomech, Dept Sport Sci, Ctr Phys Educ & Sport, Km 380 Celso Garcia Cid Rd Univ Campus, BR-86057970 Londrina, Parana, Brazil								11							Sport Sciences	WOS:000503402200017	29	Article; Article		
J	Elliott, Dave; Massey, Dayne								Effect of acute antagonist static stretching on upper-body agonist power								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				15	1			53	59	1747954119884441	10.1177/1747954119884441			FEB 2020	2020	There are many studies showing acute static stretching to be detrimental to power generation. However, the majority have focused upon the impact of stretching the agonist musculature. To date, few have examined the potential benefits of acute antagonist static stretching; none have focused on upper-body power. Utilising a repeated-measures design, 30 male participants were randomly assigned to one of two groups whereupon they performed four bench-throw tests; two control (NO-STRETCH) and two experimental (STRETCH), in a counter-balanced manner. Prior to the experimental measures, participants undertook a series of static antagonist stretches. Mean Pmax (SD) in the NO-STRETCH trials was 862.76 (146)W and 898.50 (144)W, respectively. For STRETCH trial 1, Pmax=930.10 (146)W and trial 2, Pmax=953.36 (136)W. When compared to the respective NO-STRETCH trials, antagonist static stretching did have a significant effect on Pmax for both the initial (P<0.01, d=1.33) and the re-stretching procedures (P<0.01, d=1.35). A significant difference was also found between the STRETCH trials (P<0.01, d=0.46). The results have practical implications for those involved in upper-body power activities. Specifically, incorporating upper-body antagonist static stretching into pre-performance routines might offer a simple and effective means of enhancing agonist power.		[Elliott, Dave; Massey, Dayne] Univ Cumbria, Dept Sport & Med Sci, Fusehill St, Carlisle, England; [Elliott, Dave] Univ Cumbria, Dept Sport & Med Sci, Fusehill St, Carlisle, England								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000495274600001	57	Article; Article		
J	Oranchuk, Dustin J.; Flattery, Matthew R.; Robinson, Tracey L.								Superficial heat administration and foam rolling increase hamstring flexibility acutely; with amplifying effects								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				40				213	217		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.10.004			NOV 2019	2019	Objectives: To compare the objective and subjective efficacy of three treatments on acute hip-flexion range of motion (ROM). Design: Assessor-blind, randomized within-subject cross-over. Setting: University athletic training clinic. Participants: Twenty-two female collegiate lacrosse and soccer athletes. Main outcome measures: The passive straight-leg-raise (PSLR) was used to measure acute hip-flexion ROM pre- and post foam rolling (FR), superficial heating (SH), combination (SH + FR) and control treatments. A seven-point Likert scale statement measured the perceived effectiveness of each treatment. Results: Superficial heat (+10.4%, ES = 0.78), FR (+7.26%, ES = 0.52), and SH + FR treatment (+12.9%, ES = 1.26) improved hip ROM when compared to the control (+2.4%, ES = 0.24) (all p < 0.001). The SH + FR treatment resulted in a greater improvement in hip ROM compared to FR (p = 0.001, ES = 0.95), whereas no significant difference was observed between the SH and FR (p = 0.083, ES = 0.68) or SH and SH + FR treatment (p = 0.270, ES = 0.43). SH + FR was perceived as more effective than FR (p = 0.033, ES = 1.21), but not SH (p = 0.193, ES = 0.63). However, only a moderately positive correlation (r = 0.508) between objective and subjective measures of hamstring flexibility was found. Conclusions: All treatments significantly improve hamstring flexibility with SH + FR being the most effective. Rehabilitation professionals should practice caution when relying on athlete perception and should prescribe treatments on an individual basis. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Oranchuk, Dustin J.; Flattery, Matthew R.; Robinson, Tracey L.] Adams State Univ, Dept Human Performance & Phys Educ, Alamosa, CO USA; [Oranchuk, Dustin J.] Auckland Univ Technol, Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand, Auckland, New Zealand; [Oranchuk, Dustin J.] AUT Millennium, 17 Antares Pl, Auckland, New Zealand								13							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000498750100028	28	Article; Article		
J	Reneker, Jennifer C.; Babl, Ryan; Pannell, W. Cody; Adah, Felix; Flowers, Meredith M.; Curbow-Wilcox, Kimberly; Lirette, Seth								Sensorimotor training for injury prevention in collegiate soccer players: An experimental study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				40				184	192		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.09.012			NOV 2019	2019	Objectives: Deliver a sensorimotor training intervention; quantify the change in clinical measurements of sensorimotor control; and compare injury rate to a historical control. Design: One-arm experimental pilot; Level 3. Setting: NCAA Division II university athletic facilities. Participants: 75 collegiate soccer players (38 males; 37 females) were enrolled, including 30 (40%) with history of concussion, and participated in eight training sessions. Outcomes: Change in pre-to post-intervention for: static balance on the Sway app, near-point convergence, self-reported symptoms on the Post-Concussion Symptom Scale, cervical flexor neuromotor control/endurance, measured by the Cranial-Cervical Flexion Test and Joint Position Error test, and gaze stability on the Dynamic Visual Acuity Test. Injury incidence rate in 2018 was calculated using the number of traumatic injuries across the season and athlete exposure counts, as compared to a historical control. Results: Significant improvements were obtained in static balance, cervical flexor neuromotor control/endurance, and near-point convergence (p-values<0.01-0.03). Increases in symptom report (p = 0.02) and a decline in dynamic gaze stability (p < 0.01) were observed. There were 11.8 injuries/1000 athlete exposures in 2017 and 8.9 injuries/1000 athlete exposures in 2018 after the treatment (p = 0.18). Conclusion: This intervention holds promise as a preventive strategy for sports-injury as a comprehensive population-based intervention. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Reneker, Jennifer C.; Babl, Ryan; Pannell, W. Cody; Adah, Felix; Flowers, Meredith M.; Curbow-Wilcox, Kimberly; Lirette, Seth] Univ Mississippi, Med Ctr, Jackson, MS 39216 USA; [Reneker, Jennifer C.] 2500 North State St, Jackson, MS 30216 USA								25							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000498750100024	53	Article; Article		
J	Rodriguez-Sanz, David; Elena Losa-Iglesias, Marta; Becerro-de-Bengoa-Vallejo, Ricardo; Abdelhalim Dorgham, Hend Adel; Benito-de-Pedro, Maria; San-Antolin, Marta; Mazoteras-Pardo, Victoria; Calvo-Lobo, Cesar								Thermography related to electromyography in runners with functional equinus condition after running								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				40				193	196		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.09.007			NOV 2019	2019	Objectives: To assess how skin temperature could be related with gastrocnemius muscle activation and thus detect association between the extensibility of the triceps-surae and the skin temperature pattern. Design: A Cross Sectional Study. Secondary level of care. Setting: Recreational runners from an athletic club. Participants: 57 healthy male subjects with functional equinus condition were recruited (age 42.82 +/- 6.97 years, height 173.68 +/- 9.79 cm, weight 73.19 +/- 8.13 kg, body mass index 20.41 +/- 2.48). Main outcome measures: Skin temperature and electromyography of the gastrocnemius muscle before and after running exercise. Results: Skin thermal assessment value for Gastrocnemius muscles were assessed in 57 participants before and after running. We found a significant increase of skin temperature after running deeply related with electromyography values (Confidence interval 95%). The temperature of Gastrocnemius was increased in runners after activity. Conclusions: Thermal imaging is deeply related with muscle pattern activation for lower limb. Based on our findings, we propose that infrared thermography assessment of the gastrocnemius is adequate to check Gastrocnemius muscle activity condition in runners. (C) 2019 Published by Elsevier Ltd.		[Rodriguez-Sanz, David; Becerro-de-Bengoa-Vallejo, Ricardo; Benito-de-Pedro, Maria; Mazoteras-Pardo, Victoria; Calvo-Lobo, Cesar] Univ Complutense Madrid, Sch Nursing Physiotherapy & Podiatry, Madrid, Spain; [Elena Losa-Iglesias, Marta] Univ Rey Juan Carlos, Fac Hlth Sci, Alcorcon, Spain; [Abdelhalim Dorgham, Hend Adel] Alexandria Gen Hosp, Dept Phys Therapy, Alexandria, Egypt; [San-Antolin, Marta] Univ Europea Madrid, Dept Psychol, Madrid, Spain; [San-Antolin, Marta] Univ Europea Madrid, Dept Psychol, Madrid, Spain								10							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000498750100025	25	Article; Article		
J	Cahalan, Roisin; Bargary, Norma; O'Sullivan, Kieran								Dance exposure, general health, sleep and injury in elite adolescent Irish dancers: A prospective study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				40				153	159		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.09.008			NOV 2019	2019	Objectives: To investigate dance exposure, sleep, general health and injury in elite adolescent Irish dancers. Design: Prospective study. Setting: Six Irish dance schools in Ireland. Participants: Thirty-seven elite Irish dancers, aged 13-17, competing at the highest championship level for at least the previous year. Main Outcome Measures: Self-reported weekly hours of dance, general health, sleep quality, monthly and annual height and weight, injury incidence. Results: Overall injury incidence (time-loss plus non-time-loss) and time-loss only injury incidence were 9.3 injuries, and 4.5 injuries, per 1000 hours of dance respectively. At least one injury was incurred by 86.5% of participants, with the foot/ankle most commonly affected. There were no statistically significant associations (p>0.05) between injury and sleep quality, or annual change in height/weight. There was some evidence of a statistically significant association between injury and health quality, with poorer health associated with increased levels of injury. There was no evidence of a statistically significant association between the probability of injury over time and sleep quality one week earlier, health quality one week earlier, or training load one and two weeks earlier. Conclusions: The incidence of injury in elite adolescent Irish dance is considerable with many dancers continuing to dance when injured. Increased dance exposure is associated with new injury. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Cahalan, Roisin; O'Sullivan, Kieran] Univ Limerick, Sch Allied Hlth, Limerick, Ireland; [Cahalan, Roisin] Univ Limerick, Hlth Res Inst, Limerick, Ireland; [Bargary, Norma] Univ Limerick, Dept Math & Stat, Limerick, Ireland; [O'Sullivan, Kieran] Aspetar Sports Med & Orthopaed Hosp, Sports Spine Ctr, Doha, Qatar; [O'Sullivan, Kieran] Univ Limerick, Hlth Res Inst, Ageing Res Ctr, Limerick, Ireland; [Cahalan, Roisin] Univ Limerick, Sch Allied Hlth, Limerick, Ireland								12							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000498750100020	51	Article; Article		
J	Navarro-Santana, Marcos J.; Albert-Lucena, Daniel; Gomez-Chiguano, Guido E.; Plaza-Manzano, Gustavo; Fernandez-de-las-Penas, Cesar; Cleland, Joshua; Perez-Silvestre, Angel; Asin-Izquierdo, Ivan								Pressure pain sensitivity over nerve trunk areas and physical performance in amateur male soccer players with and without chronic ankle instability								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				40				91	98		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.09.002			NOV 2019	2019	Objective: Chronic ankle instability (CAI) is reported after ankle sprain. Our aim was to assess differences in mechanical pain sensitivity of lower extremity nerve trunks and physical performance between amateur soccer players with and without CAI. Design: A cross-sectional case-control study. Setting: Amateur soccer teams. Participants: Fifty-five male soccer players, 28 with and 27 without CAI participated. Main outcome measures: The perceived instability was assessed with the Cumberland Ankle Instability Tool (CAIT). Pressure pain thresholds (PPTs) on the common peroneal and tibialis nerve trunks, vertical jump, lateral step-down test and joint position sense of the knee were assessed by a blinded assessor. Results: Soccer players with CAI showed lower PPT5 over the common peroneal nerve than those without CAI (between-groups mean difference: 1.0 +/- 0.8 kg/cm(2), P < 0.001). No differences for PPT over the tibialis posterior (P = 0.078) or any physical performance outcome (knee joint positioning sense [P = 0.798], lateral step-down test [P = 0.580] and vertical jump variables [all, P> 0.310]) were found. PPT over the common peroneal nerve exhibited a significant moderate correlation with the CAIT score (r = 0.528, P < 0.001). Conclusion: Amateur soccer players with CAI have higher pressure pain sensitivity over the common peroneal nerve but exhibit similar physical performance to amateur soccer players without CAI. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Navarro-Santana, Marcos J.] Ctr Med Rehabil San Fernando, Hlth & Rehabil Ctr San Fernando, Madrid, Spain; [Albert-Lucena, Daniel] Mutua Universal, Madrid, Spain; [Gomez-Chiguano, Guido E.] Univ Complutense Madrid, Podiatry Univ Clin, Madrid, Spain; [Plaza-Manzano, Gustavo] Univ Complutense Madrid, Dept Radiol Rehabil & Physiotherapy, Madrid, Spain; [Plaza-Manzano, Gustavo] Sanitaria Hosp Clin San Carlos, Inst Invest, Madrid, Spain; [Fernandez-de-las-Penas, Cesar] Univ Rey Juan Carlos, Dept Phys Therapy Occupat Therapy Phys Med & Reha, Madrid, Spain; [Cleland, Joshua] Franklin Pierce Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Manchester, NH USA; [Cleland, Joshua] Concord Hosp, Rehabil Serv, Concord, NH USA; [Cleland, Joshua] Regis Univ, Manual Therapy Fellowship Program, Denver, CO USA; [Perez-Silvestre, Angel] Spanish Agcy Hlth Protect Sports AEPSAD Its Spani, Ctr Sports Med, Madrid, Spain; [Asin-Izquierdo, Ivan] Univ Alcala de Henares, Dept Biomed Sci, Alcala De Henares, Spain; [Fernandez-de-las-Penas, Cesar] Univ Rey Juan Carlos, Fac Ciencias Salud, Ave Atenas S-N, Madrid 28922, Spain								7							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000498750100013	49	Article; Article		
J	Mehta, Sameer								Relationship between workload and throwing injury in varsity baseball players								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				40				66	70		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.08.001			NOV 2019	2019	Objectives: In this study we describe the first analysis of the relationship between acute-to-chronic valgus workload ratio (ACVR) and injury in baseball. Design: Observational study. Setting: Competitive, team sport. Participants: Eighteen, elite male baseball players (aged 17.0 +/- 0.7 year, height 185 +/- 5.7 cm, and mass 85.2 +/- 7.6 kg) competing at the varsity level participated in this six-month study. Each player wore the motusTHROW (TM) sleeve and sensor during pre-season training and the entire 2017 regular season. Main outcome measures: ACVR and injury. Results: Overall there were a total of ten injuries recorded throughout the 2017 season amongst those wearing the sleeves, including six throwing-related injuries. Over 159 days of throwing, a total of 171,703 throws, and 1307 exposures were captured with the motusTHROW (TM) sensors. Five of the six throwing-related injuries occurred when athletes had an ACVR greater than 1.27, which marks the 75th percentile across all observations. Results from logistic regression suggested that ACVR was significantly related to injury occurrence (p < .05). This resulted in an odds ratio of 15.2 and a risk ratio of 14.9, meaning that ACVR ratios above 1.27 were 14.9 times more likely to result in injury than ACVR ratios below 1.27. Conclusions: Logistic regression reveals a significant relationship between ACVR and injury occurrence such that high ACVRs may increase injury risk. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Mehta, Sameer] Medstar Georgetown Univ Hosp, Phys Med & Rehabil Dept, 3800 Reservoir Rd NW,Bles Bldg,Room CGI2, Washington, DC 20007 USA; [Mehta, Sameer] Medstar Georgetown Univ Hosp, Phys Med & Rehabil Dept, 3800 Reservoir Rd NW,Bles Bldg,Room CGI2, Washington, DC 20007 USA								33							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000498750100009	25	Article; Article		
J	Moisan, Gabriel; Mainville, Camille; Descarreaux, Martin; Cantin, Vincent								Effects of foot orthoses on walking and jump landing biomechanics of individuals with chronic ankle instability								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				40				53	58		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.08.009			NOV 2019	2019	Objectives: To evaluate the kinematic, kinetic and electromyographic (EMG) immediate effects of foot orthoses (FOs) during walking, maximal single-leg side jump landing (SIDE) and unilateral drop landing on even (DROP), inclined and unstable (FOAM) surfaces in individuals with chronic ankle instability (CAI). Design: Cohort study. Setting: Biomechanics laboratory. Participants: 26 healthy individuals with CAI. Main outcome measures: Ankle and knee angles/moments and lower-limb EMG of the gluteus medius, vastus medialis, vastus lateralis, biceps femoris, gastrocnemis medialis, gastrocnemius lateralis, peroneus longus and tibialis anterior muscles. Results: The main results are that with FOs, individuals with CAI exhibited decreased tibialis anterior muscle activity from 19 to 38% and 39-99% of the landing phase during the DROP task. They also exhibited increased biceps femoris muscle activity from 56 to 65% of the preactivation phase during walking. No significant ankle and knee joints angles and moments difference was observed when wearing FOs in any of the experimental tasks. Conclusions: The results of this study suggest that the biomechanical effects of FOs are task-dependent and only affect EMG activity. They will help clinicians and researchers to better understand FOs' role in treatment and prevention of CAI. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Moisan, Gabriel] Univ Quebec Trois Rivieres, Dept Anat, Trois Rivieres, PQ, Canada; [Mainville, Camille; Descarreaux, Martin; Cantin, Vincent] Univ Quebec Trois Rivieres, Dept Sci Act Phys, 3351 Boul Forges, Trois Rivieres, PQ G9A 5H7, Canada; [Moisan, Gabriel; Mainville, Camille; Descarreaux, Martin; Cantin, Vincent] Univ Quebec Trois Rivieres, GRAN, 3351 Boul Forges, Trois Rivieres, PQ G9A 5H7, Canada; [Moisan, Gabriel] Univ Quebec Trois Rivieres, 3351 Boul Forges, Trois Rivieres, PQ G9A 5H7, Canada								13							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000498750100007	35	Article; Article		
J	Clark, Nicholas C.; Mullally, Elaine M.								Prevalence and magnitude of preseason clinically-significant single-leg balance and hop test asymmetries in an English adult netball club								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				40				44	52		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.08.008			NOV 2019	2019	Objectives: Side-to-side asymmetry of lower-limb motor-performance is associated with increased noncontact injury risk in agility-sports. Side-to-side symmetry-analyses using single-leg balance and hop tests has not been reported for community-level adult netball players. The purpose of this study was to perform preseason side-to-side symmetry-analyses using eyes-closed-balance (ECB), triple-hop-for-distance (THD), single-hop-for-distance (SHD), and vertical-hop (VH) tests. Design: Cross-sectional; Setting: Community-level adult netball club. Participants: Twenty-three female players (age 28.7 +/- 6.2yr; height 171.6 +/- 7.0 cm; mass 68.2 +/- 9.8 kg). Main outcome measures: Right-left group-level comparisons (paired t-test) and individual-level comparisons (absolute-asymmetry (%)). A limb symmetry index was calculated for each test and a clinicallysignificant absolute-asymmetry defined as >10%. Clinically-significant absolute-asymmetry prevalence (%) was computed for each test. Results: There were no right-left significant differences for any test. Maximum absolute-asymmetries for the ECB, THD, SHD, and VH were 93.3%, 15.2%, 16.7%, and 60.3%, respectively. The prevalence of clinically-significant absolute-asymmetries for the ECB, THD, SHD, and VH was 91.3%, 8.7%, 8.7%, and 52.2%, respectively. Conclusions: Group-level comparisons with statistical tests fail to expose the extent of clinically-significant absolute-asymmetries. Most players demonstrated preseason clinically-significant absolute-asymmetries for the ECB and VH tests. Preseason clinically-significant absolute-asymmetries that may predispose increased lower-limb noncontact injury risk are widespread in a community-level adult netball club. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Clark, Nicholas C.] Univ Essex, Sch Sport Rehabil & Exercise Sci, Wivenhoe Pk, Colchester CO4 3SQ, Essex, England; [Mullally, Elaine M.] St Marys Univ, Fac Sport Hlth & Appl Sci, Waldegrave Rd, Twickenham TW1 4SX, England; [Clark, Nicholas C.] Univ Essex, Sch Sport Rehabil & Exercise Sci, Wivenhoe Pk, Colchester CO4 3SQ, Essex, England								13							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000498750100006	81	Article; Article		
J	Langdon, Edward; Snodgrass, Suzanne J.; Young, Jodi L.; Miller, Andrew; Callister, Robin								Posture of rugby league players and its relationship to non-contact lower limb injury: A prospective cohort study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				40				27	32		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.08.006			NOV 2019	2019	Objective: This study aimed to identify posture deviations in rugby league players, and to observe relationships between posture and the incidence of non-contact lower limb injury. Design: Prospective cohort. Setting: Laboratory and on-field. Participants: Junior representative, semi-professional and professional rugby league players (n = 207). Main outcome measures: Static posture scores from photographs (Watson and MacDonncha tool) in preseason; non-contact lower limb injury surveillance and exposure data. Methods: Chi-square and logistic regression analyses were used to observe relationships between postural components and the incidence of non-contact lower limb injury. Results: 8.7% of players sustained a quadriceps injury; 7.2% sustained a calf injury. Semi-professional and professional players had the highest injury rates. The most common posture deviations were having a forward shoulder position (46.9%), a forward head position (33.3%), a varus knee interspace (32.9%) or a lumbar lordosis (30.9%). A moderate C-scoliosis deviation was associated with a decrease in injury risk (OR 1.57 95% CI 1.00-2.46 p = 0.052). Included in the model was player weight, which was associated with an increased risk of injury (OR 1.04 95% CI 1.01-1.07 p = 0.010). Conclusions: Although postural deviations are common in rugby league players, given the lack of association with injury, they may not warrant intervention. (C) 2019 Published by Elsevier Ltd.		[Langdon, Edward; Snodgrass, Suzanne J.; Young, Jodi L.] Univ Newcastle, Sch Hlth Sci, Discipline Physiotherapy, Callaghan, NSW 2308, Australia; [Miller, Andrew] Univ Newcastle, Sch Educ, Callaghan, NSW 2308, Australia; [Callister, Robin] Univ Newcastle, Sch Biomed Sci & Pharm, Callaghan, NSW 2308, Australia; [Snodgrass, Suzanne J.] Univ Newcastle, Sch Hlth Sci, Discipline Physiotherapy, Callaghan, NSW 2308, Australia								6							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000498750100004	30	Article; Article		
J	Welling, Wouter; Benjaminse, Anne; Lemmink, Koen; Dingenen, Bart; Gokeler, Alli								Progressive strength training restores quadriceps and hamstring muscle strength within 7 months after ACL reconstruction in amateur male soccer players								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				40				10	18		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.08.004			NOV 2019	2019	Objectives: The purpose of the current study was to compare the results of a progressive strength training protocol for soccer players after anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction (ACLR) with healthy controls, and to investigate the effects of the strength training protocol on peak quadriceps and hamstring muscle strength. Design: Between subjects design. Setting: Outpatient physical therapy facility. Participants: Thirty-eight amateur male soccer players after ACLR were included. Thirty age-matched amateur male soccer players served as control group. Main outcome measures: Quadriceps and hamstring muscle strength was measured at three time points during the rehabilitation. Limb symmetry index (LSI) > 90% was used as cut-off criteria. Results: Soccer players after ACLR had no significant differences in peak quadriceps and hamstring muscle strength in the injured leg at 7 months after ACLR compared to the dominant leg of the control group. Furthermore, 65.8% of soccer players after ACLR passed LSI >90% at 10 months for quadriceps muscle strength. Conclusion: Amateur male soccer players after ACLR can achieve similar quadriceps and hamstring muscle strength at 7 months compared to healthy controls. These findings highlight the potential of progressive strength training in rehabilitation after ACLR that may mitigate commonly reported strength deficits. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Welling, Wouter] Med Ctr Zuid, Sportlaan 2-1, NL-9728 PH Groningen, Netherlands; [Welling, Wouter; Benjaminse, Anne; Lemmink, Koen; Gokeler, Alli] Univ Groningen, Univ Med Ctr Groningen, Ctr Human Movement Sci, Antonius Deusinglaan 1, NL-9713 AV Groningen, Netherlands; [Benjaminse, Anne] Hanze Univ Groningen, Sch Sport Studies, Zernikepl 17, NL-9747 AS Groningen, Netherlands; [Dingenen, Bart] UHasselt, Fac Med & Life Sci, Biomed Res Inst, Rehabil Res Ctr, Diepenbeek, Belgium; [Gokeler, Alli] Luxembourg Inst Res Orthopaed Sports Med & Sci LI, Luxembourg, Luxembourg; [Gokeler, Alli] Univ Paderborn, Dept Exercise & Hlth Exercise Sci & Neurosci, Paderborn, Germany; [Welling, Wouter] Univ Groningen, Univ Med Ctr Groningen, Ctr Human Movement Sci, Antonius Deusinglaan 1, NL-9713 AV Groningen, Netherlands								78							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000498750100002	47	Article; Article		
J	Norte, Grant E.; Solaas, Haley; Saliba, Susan A.; Goetschius, John; Slater, Lindsay V.; Hart, Joseph M.								The relationships between kinesiophobia and clinical outcomes after ACL reconstruction differ by self-reported physical activity engagement								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				40				1	9		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.08.002			NOV 2019	2019	Objectives: To investigate whether relationships between kinesiophobia, lower extremity function, and patient-reported function differ by self-reported physical activity engagement after ACL reconstruction (ACLR). Design: Cross-sectional. Setting: Laboratory. Participants: Seventy-seven patients with a primary, unilateral ACLR. Main outcome measures: Kinesiophobia (TSK-17) was the primary outcome. Lower extremity function included quadriceps and hamstrings strength, fatigue, and hop performance. Patient-reported function included regional function (IKDC, KOOS subscales) and physical activity engagement (Godin Leisure-Time Exercise). Patients were evaluated together, then stratified by LOW and HIGH physical activity. Correlations and multiple regression analyses identified relationships between kinesiophobia and outcome measures. Results: Greater kinesiophobia was associated with lesser hamstrings strength, hop performance, and patient-reported function. Greater hamstrings fatigue and lesser KOOSADL explained greater kinesiophobia in patients reporting LOW physical activity. Lesser triple hop symmetry, crossover hop distance, and IKDC explained greater kinesiophobia in patients reporting HIGH physical activity. Conclusions: Greater kinesiophobia associated with worse outcomes after ACLR. Relationships differed by self-reported physical activity engagement. Interventions that improve the ability to perform knee-related activities of daily living may be appropriate to minimize the impact of fear in less active patients, while those targeting hop performance and knee-related sport activities may be better suited for more active patients. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Norte, Grant E.] Univ Toledo, Sch Exercise & Rehabil Sci, Athlet Training Program, 2801 W Bancroft St Hlth & Human Serv 2505H, Toledo, OH 43606 USA; [Solaas, Haley; Saliba, Susan A.; Hart, Joseph M.] Univ Virginia, Dept Kinesiol, Sports Med Program, Mem Gymnasium, 210 Emmet St North,209 POB 400407, Charlottesville, VA 22904 USA; [Saliba, Susan A.; Hart, Joseph M.] Univ Virginia, Dept Orthoped Surg, Sports Med Div, 400 Ray C Hunt Dr,Suite 330 POB 800159, Charlottesville, VA 22908 USA; [Goetschius, John] Adrian Coll, Exercise Sci & Athlet Training Dept, 110 S Madison St Merillat 209, Adrian, MI 49221 USA; [Slater, Lindsay V.] Shirley Ryan AbilityLab, Neuromech Impaired Locomot Lab, 355 East Erie, Chicago, IL 60611 USA; [Norte, Grant E.] Univ Toledo, Sch Exercise & Rehabil Sci, Athlet Training Program, 2801 W Bancroft St Hlth & Human Serv 2505H, Toledo, OH 43606 USA								50							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000498750100001	49	Article; Article		
J	Roberts, Jonathan R.; Osei-Owusu, Paul; Mears, Aimee C.; Harland, Andrew R.								Elite Players' Perceptions of Football Playing Surfaces: A Qualitative Study								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				91	2			239	251		10.1080/02701367.2019.1660757			APR 2 2020	2020	Purpose: The decision by the International Football Association Board in 2004 to approve the use of artificial surfaces in elite football (soccer) competitions remains controversial amongst many players, managers and coaching staff. The aim of this study was to conduct a comprehensive assessment of players' opinions to better understand the influence of playing surfaces on the game of football and identify factors that may contribute to differences of opinion. Method: Qualitative data were collected from 103 elite footballers and 21 coaching staff during a series of interviews and focus groups. A thematic analysis was conducted to identify patterns in the data. Results: Players considered that the type and condition of a playing surface influenced ball-surface interactions, game play, tactics/strategy, footwear selection, movement, risk of injury and fatigue. Together these influence a player's perception of the suitability of a surface and also their mindset, which could ultimately affect their performance. Conclusion: The majority of participants in this study expressed a higher preference for natural grass over artificial turf pitches. A perceived increased risk of injury on artificial turf remains a primary concern despite a lack of supporting evidence in research studies. To address this discrepancy, the reporting of muscle soreness and the effect of constant surface switching merit further consideration. Not all participants shared the same views and player characteristics such as age, surface experience, injury history and playing style/position were found to be potential factors that could account for differences in elite players' opinions regarding the surfaces used in football.		[Roberts, Jonathan R.; Osei-Owusu, Paul; Mears, Aimee C.; Harland, Andrew R.] Loughborough Univ, Loughborough, Leics, England; [Roberts, Jonathan R.] Loughborough Univ, Sports Technol Inst, 1 Oakwood Dr, Loughborough LE11 3QF, Leics, England								15							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000492307400001	21	Article; Article		
J	Poorman, Matthew J.; Talwar, Divya; Sanjuan, Justin; Baldwin, Keith D.; Sutliff, Nikki; Franklin, Corinna C.								Increasing hospital admissions for patellar instability: a national database study from 2004 to 2017								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				48	2			215	221		10.1080/00913847.2019.1680088			APR 2 2020	2020	Objectives: Epidemiology of patellar instability is not fully characterized, as some studies have produced conflicting information or been drawn from limited populations. In this study, we used the Pediatric Health Information System (PHIS) database to examine trends in admissions for patellar instability throughout the United States. We hypothesized that there would be an increasing rate of patellar instability admissions in recent years. Secondarily, we examined how demographic factors and insurance status relate to admissions for patellar instability. Methods: This study queried the Pediatric Health Information System (PHIS). Patients with ICD 9 & 10 codes 8363, 8364, 71,785, M221.0, S83.001, S83.002, S83.003, S83.004, S83.005, and S83.006, were abstracted from PHIS. We included all patients admitted with patellofemoral dislocations that were reported in the PHIS database between 1 January 2004 and 30 April 2017. The rate of patellar instability admissions was examined as well as demographic factors and insurance status. Results: An estimated total of 25,413 admissions for patellar instability were identified by the search of the PHIS database; 15,444 (60.8%) were female patients and 9,966 (39.2%) were male. The adjusted number of admissions per reporting hospital significantly increased over the years studied (r = 0.775, p < 0.001), from 14.5 admissions per reporting hospital in 2004 to 86.0 admissions per reporting hospital in 2016. Of all patellar instability admissions, 55.0% were white, 20.4% were black, 1.7% were Asian, and 22.9% were unknown race. A larger number of admissions occurred in patients with insurance status other than Medicaid in every year data were collected. Conclusions: Based on a PHIS database search, pediatric hospital admissions for patellar instability are steadily increasing. The majority of patients admitted for patellar instability are female, white, and have insurance other than Medicaid. Males admitted for patellar instability tended to be older than females admitted for the same.		[Poorman, Matthew J.] Univ Massachusetts, Dept Orthopaed, Worcester, MA 01605 USA; [Talwar, Divya; Baldwin, Keith D.] Univ Penn, Childrens Hosp Philadelphia, Dept Orthopaed, Philadelphia, PA 19104 USA; [Sanjuan, Justin; Sutliff, Nikki; Franklin, Corinna C.] Shriners Hosp Children, Dept Orthopaed, Philadelphia, PA USA; [Franklin, Corinna C.] Shriners Hosp Children Philadelphia, 3551 North Broad St, Philadelphia, PA 19140 USA								13							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000491473300001	28	Article; Article		
J	Cakir-Atabek, Hayriye; Aygun, Cihan; Dokumaci, Bircan								Active Video Games versus Traditional Exercises: Energy Expenditure and Blood Lactate Responses								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				91	2			188	196		10.1080/02701367.2019.1653431			APR 2 2020	2020	Purpose: The current study aimed to investigate the exercise intensity and exercise characteristics of active video games (AVGs) by measuring various physiological responses, and to test whether AVGs can be used in components of training in sports branches. Methods: Twenty-two male athletes with good aerobic fitness level (age?=?20.6???2.2?years; maximum oxygen consumption (VO(2)max)?=?52.2???3.5 ml.kg(?1).min(?1)) visited the laboratory three times (D1, D2, and D3). After taking measurements during rest, the VO(2)max was assessed (D1). Traditional brisk walking and running exercises were performed consecutively (D2), and AVGs?dancing and fighting?were performed at random (D3); each exercise session lasted 20?minutes, and for each experiment session oxygen consumption (VO2), heart rate (HR) were recorded, VO(2)max%, metabolic equivalent (MET), and energy expenditure (EE) were calculated. Results: No significant differences were found between AVG-dancing and brisk walking (p >?.05) for VO2 (25.96???3.3 vs. 24.39???2.3 ml.kg(?1).min(?1)), HR (137.02???20.15 vs. 125.61???6.49 beats.min(?1)) VO(2)max% (49.99???7.00 vs. 46.84???4.06), MET (7.49???0.94 vs. 6.96???0.65), and EE (181.19???27.65 vs. 171.21???22.51?Kcal). Additionally, no significant differences were found between AVG-fighting and running (p >?.05) for VO2 (33.96???5.88 vs. 33.13???2.52 ml.kg(?1).min(?1)), HR (155.66???15.05 vs. 153.30???6.83 beats.min(?1)), VO(2)max% (65.05???9.76 vs. 63.60???3.51), MET (9.70???1.68 vs. 9.47???0.72), and EE (236.75???37.20 vs. 232.70???27.06). Conclusions: AVG-dancing and fighting were defined as moderate (MET>7) and high (MET>9) intensity intermittent exercises, respectively. Consequently, AVGs can be a part of training for athletes; as a block, modified block or a traditional training cycle involving enjoyable alternative exercises, especially when the appropriate AVGs are chosen.		[Cakir-Atabek, Hayriye; Aygun, Cihan; Dokumaci, Bircan] Eskisehir Tech Univ, Eskisehir, Turkey; [Aygun, Cihan; Dokumaci, Bircan] Anadolu Univ, Eskisehir, Turkey; [Aygun, Cihan] Eskisehir Tech Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Coach Training Sports, TR-26555 Eskisehir, Turkey								13							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000491387900001	25	Article; Article		
J	Bremer, Emily; Graham, Jeffrey D.; Bedard, Chloe; Rodriguez, Christine; Kriellaars, Dean; Cairney, John								The Association between PLAYfun and Physical Activity: A Convergent Validation Study								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				91	2			179	187		10.1080/02701367.2019.1652723			APR 2 2020	2020	Purpose: The purpose of this study was to examine the convergent validity of the PLAYfun tool, a physical literacy-based measure of movement competence, by examining its association with objectively measured physical activity in a sample of children and youth. Method: Participants included 110 children between the ages of seven to 14?years attending a stratified random sample of 27 afterschool programs across the province of Ontario, Canada. The PLAYfun tool was administered to the participants on one occasion at their afterschool program and then they were asked to wear a pedometer for seven consecutive days to measure their physical activity levels. A series of multiple linear regression models were used to examine the association between PLAYfun scores and physical activity, while controlling for age, sex, and time of year (season) in which the data were collected. Results: On its own, the PLAYfun average score accounted for close to 13% of the variance in physical activity, R =?.36, R-2?=?.13, p <?.001. The PLAYfun average score was also a significant independent predictor of physical activity, b (SE)?=?145.98 (53.46), p <?.01, when controlling for age, sex, and season in which the data were collected, R-2?=?.30, F (4, 105)?=?11.04, p Conclusion: Results from the present study indicate that the PLAYfun tool is a significant predictor of objectively measured physical activity, supporting the convergent validity of the tool.		[Bremer, Emily; Graham, Jeffrey D.; Bedard, Chloe; Rodriguez, Christine; Cairney, John] McMaster Univ, Hamilton, ON, Canada; [Rodriguez, Christine; Cairney, John] Univ Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada; [Kriellaars, Dean] Univ Manitoba, Winnipeg, MB, Canada; [Cairney, John] Univ Toronto, Fac Kinesiol & Phys Educ, 55 Harbord St, Toronto, ON M5S 2W6, Canada								31							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000490616900001	44	Article; Article		
J	Draper, Nick; Clement, Tane; Alexander, Keith								Physiological Demands of Trampolining at Different Intensities								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				91	1			136	141		10.1080/02701367.2019.1651448			JAN 2 2020	2020	Purpose: The aim of this study was to examine the physiological demands of trampolining, in comparison with treadmill running, using a larger sample size and a wider range of physiological measures, than had been reported in the previous research. Method: Twenty-three healthy adults completed three, three-minute exercise bouts on both a trampoline and treadmill at different intensities. Heart rate (HR), oxygen consumption (), energy expenditure (EE) and blood lactate (BL) were collected for each bout. Results: Results of a two-way repeated measures MANOVA indicated that there was a significant difference between the modalities ( = 9.3, p <.0005, = 0.39). A follow up two-way repeated measures ANOVA then identified that significant differences existed between the modalities for each of the variables; ( = 159, p <.0005, = 0.88), EE (= 136, p <.0005, = 0.86) and BL ( = 171, p <.0005, = 0.89). Subsequent post hoc testing found to differ significantly between the medium intensities (p =.01 d =0.6). EE to differ significantly for the medium (p =.003, d =?0.7) and high intensities (p =.02, d =?0.5). BL to differ significantly for the low (p =.04, d =0.4), medium (p =.03, d =0.5) and high (p =.001 d =1.4) intensities. Conclusions: The results from our study indicated that while significant differences do occur between running and trampolining for a given intensity, the trendline associated with each of the variables is similar. Therefore, monitoring the intensity of the session based the percentage of the participant?s maximum heart rate, which is commonly used in running, may also be applied to trampolining.		[Draper, Nick; Clement, Tane; Alexander, Keith] Univ Canterbury, Christchurch, New Zealand; [Clement, Tane] Univ Canterbury, Sch Hlth Sci, Dovedale Ave, Christchurch 8041, New Zealand								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000490617400001	27	Article; Article		
J	Booth, Mark; Cobley, Stephen; Orr, Rhonda								Does a higher training age attenuate injury risk in junior elite rugby league players?								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				14	6			779	785	1747954119883620	10.1177/1747954119883620			DEC 2019	2019	Our aim was to determine the relationships between three different training ages - TA domains (Rugby League specific - RLTA; Resistance training - RTA; Cardiovascular training - CVTA) on injury risk in junior elite rugby league players. Participants were 147 developmental rugby league players (mean age = 15.8 +/- 1.1 years) playing for one rugby league club. Logistic regression with RLTA, CVTA and RTA as independent predictors was modelled on injured/uninjured outcomes. Relationships between TA and injury characteristics were examined using linear regression. CVTA was positively associated with absolute injury risk (odds ratio - OR 1.65, p = 0.02) and injury characteristics (muscle strain OR 1.12, p = 0.05) and ankle injuries (OR 1.24, p = 0.05). A positive association was demonstrated between RTA and high-intensity running injuries (OR 1.31, p = 0.01), and hamstring injuries (OR 1.66, p = 0.01). Our results suggest that a higher pre-study CVTA and RTA was associated with increased injury risk in an elite development rugby league team.		[Booth, Mark; Cobley, Stephen; Orr, Rhonda] Univ Sydney, Dept Exercise & Sport Sci, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Booth, Mark] Univ Sydney, 75 East St, Lidcombe, NSW 2191, Australia								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000491599200001	25	Article; Article		
J	Banwell, Jenessa; Stirling, Ashley; Kerr, Gretchen								Towards a process for advancing women in coaching through mentorship								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				14	6			703	713	1747954119883108	10.1177/1747954119883108			DEC 2019	2019	Female coaches continue to be underrepresented in the coaching domain despite remarkable strides made in female athlete participation. To develop, support, and advance female coaches, mentorship initiatives have been widely recommended. Positive outcomes have been reported in nonsport literature for the professional advancement of women through mentorship, but far less attention has been paid to the advancement of female coaches through mentorship in sport. This study used a multi-methods methodology to explore female coaches' experiences in, and outcomes of, a female coach mentorship program. Survey data and individual in-depth semi-structured interviews with participating mentor (n = 7) and mentee coaches (n = 8) from the program were conducted. Survey data were analyzed descriptively and the interview data were analyzed using an inductive thematic analysis. Findings revealed two primary forms of mentoring support provided through the mentorship program that facilitated personal and professional outcomes for participating mentor and mentee coaches, as well as various quality attributes of the mentorship process. Based upon these findings, a mentorship model for advancing women in coaching is proposed.		[Banwell, Jenessa; Stirling, Ashley; Kerr, Gretchen] Univ Toronto, Kinesiol & Phys Educ, 55 Harbord St, Toronto, ON M5S 2W6, Canada; [Banwell, Jenessa] Univ Toronto, Kinesiol & Phys Educ, 55 Harbord St, Toronto, ON M5S 2W6, Canada								34							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000491384200001	42	Article; Article		
J	Jelicic, Mario; Ivancev, Vladimir; Cular, Drazen; Covic, Nedim; Stojanovidc, Emilija; Scanlan, Aaron T.; Milanovic, Zoran								The 30-15 Intermittent Fitness Test: A Reliable, Valid, and Useful Tool to Assess Aerobic Capacity in Female Basketball Players								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				91	1			83	91		10.1080/02701367.2019.1648743			JAN 2 2020	2020	Purpose: The purpose of this study was to determine the reliability, validity, and usefulness of 30?15 Intermittent Fitness Test (30-15(IFT)) in female basketball players. Methods: Nineteen female basketball players (17.82 ? 1.94 yr, 175.4 ? 7.3 cm, 67.9 ? 7.7 kg) competing in the National Croatian League performed one trial of a continuous treadmill running test and two trials of the 30-15(IFT). The 30-15(IFT) involves 30-s runs across a 40-m course interspersed with 15 s of walking, with running speed increasing every 45 s. The continuous treadmill running test was used as the criterion for validation. Results: High to very high reliability across test?retest trials were observed for maximal oxygen uptake (VO(2)max) (CV = 4.9%, ICC = 0.85), the 30-15(IFT) end-running velocity (V-IFT) (CV = 6.0%, ICC = 0.85), and maximal heart rate (HRmax) (CV = 4.8%, ICC = 0.96). Criterion validity was supported for the 30-15(IFT) with strong to very strong relationships with VO(2)max (r =0.69), V-IFT (r =0.74), and HRmax (r =0.73) attained during the continuous treadmill running test. The typical error (TE) of the 30-15(IFT) was greater than the smallest worthwhile change for VO(2)max (1.16 > 0.42 ml/kg/min), V-IFT (0.56 > 0.20 km/h), and HRmax (2.15 > 1.89 bpm) adjudging usefulness of the test as marginal. The TE of 0.56 km/h (90% CI = 0.44?0.77 km/h) demonstrates changes in the performance of one to two stages (0.5?1.0 km/h) are meaningful. Conclusions: The 30-15(IFT) possesses acceptable reliability and validity to assess maximal aerobic fitness capacity in female basketball players. While the usefulness of the 30-15(IFT) was marginal, meaningful changes in performance consisted of only one to two stages. The present findings support the 30-15(IFT) as a practical testing option for basketball practitioners to assess fitness capacities in female players.		[Jelicic, Mario; Ivancev, Vladimir; Cular, Drazen] Univ Split, Split, Croatia; [Covic, Nedim] Univ Sarajevo, Sarajevo, Bosnia & Herceg; [Stojanovidc, Emilija; Milanovic, Zoran] Univ Nis, Nish, Serbia; [Scanlan, Aaron T.] Cent Queensland Univ, Rockhampton, Qld, Australia; [Milanovic, Zoran] Inst Kinesiol Res, Koper, Slovenia; [Milanovic, Zoran] Univ Nis, Fac Sport & Phys Educ, Carnojeviceva 10a, Nish 18000, Serbia								28							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000489812100001	35	Article; Article		
J	Coratella, Giuseppe; Longo, Stefano; Rampichini, Susanna; Limonta, Eloisa; Shokohyar, Sheida; Bisconti, Angela Valentina; Ce, Emiliano; Esposito, Fabio								Quadriceps and Gastrocnemii Anatomical Cross-Sectional Area and Vastus Lateralis Fascicle Length Predict Peak-Power and Time-To-Peak-Power								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				91	1			158	165		10.1080/02701367.2019.1648745			JAN 2 2020	2020	Purpose: The current study investigated the role of quadriceps and gastrocnemii size and vastus lateralis and gastrocnemius medialis muscle architecture in peak-power and time-to-peak-power exerted in an all-out Wingate test. Twenty-one amateur cyclists were recruited. Methods: Quadriceps and gastrocnemii anatomical cross-sectional area (ACSA), and vastus lateralis and gastrocnemius medialis pennation angle and fascicle length were measured using ultrasound. Relative peak-power (normalized per body mass) and time-to-peak-power were measured during a 30s all-out test. Results: Relative peak-power was correlated with quadriceps ACSA (r = 0.896, p < .001), gastrocnemii ACSA (r = 0.811, p < .001), vastus lateralis (r = 0.787, p < .001) and gastrocnemius medialis pennation angle (r = 0.638, p < .003). Multiple regression revealed that quadriceps and gastrocnemii ACSA accounted for 85% (R-2= 0.85) of peak-power variance. Time-to-peak-power showed very large (r = ?0.868, p < .001) and large correlation (r = ?0.680, p = .001) with VL and GM fascicle length, respectively. Multiple regression analysis revealed that VL fascicle length explained 75% (R-2= 0.75) of the time-to-peak-power variance. Conclusions: Quadriceps and gastrocnemii ACSA largely explained relative peak-power in an all-out Wingate test. Vastus lateralis fascicle length was the main predictor of the time-to-peak-power. Muscle architecture characteristics seem to be involved in the power generating capacity.		[Coratella, Giuseppe; Longo, Stefano; Rampichini, Susanna; Limonta, Eloisa; Shokohyar, Sheida; Bisconti, Angela Valentina; Ce, Emiliano; Esposito, Fabio] Univ Milan, Milan, Italy; [Limonta, Eloisa; Ce, Emiliano; Esposito, Fabio] IRCSS Ist Ortoped Galeazzi, Milan, Italy; [Coratella, Giuseppe] Univ Milan, Dept Biomed Sci Hlth, Via Giuseppe Colombo 71, I-20133 Milan, Italy								22							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000489811400001	30	Article; Article		
J	Forsblom, Kim; Konttinen, Niilo; Weinberg, Robert; Matilainen, Pertti; Lintunen, Taru								Perceived goal setting practices across a competitive season								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				14	6			765	778	1747954119880994	10.1177/1747954119880994			DEC 2019	2019	Goal setting is an effective and frequently used tool for performance enhancement in sports. However, in the previous studies, the focus has been on goal effectiveness among individual male athletes and at one point in time. Therefore, the purpose of this longitudinal study was to examine goal setting practices in women's sport teams across a competitive season from players' individual and team perspectives. A total of 146 female players representing 24 teams in ice hockey, ringette, or floorball completed three online surveys. Surveys focused on setting outcome, process, and performance goals, as well as evaluating the follow-through of setting goals and actually reaching these goals across the season. The results indicated that teams set collective outcome goals, and several process, and performance goals at the outset of the season. One-third of the participants reported that these goals were recorded. Furthermore, results revealed that after the season, the achievement of the outcome goal was evaluated, whereas the attainment of process and performance goals was evaluated only occasionally. It is argued that the lack of follow-through in evaluating process and performance goals may be attributed to setting too many goals and not writing them down. It appeared that one-third of the teams did consistently follow the goal setting principles, and although this resulted in increased goal evaluation, it did not result in increased goal attainment. A number of future directions for research are offered and it is recommended that coaches should be made more aware of these guidelines and the importance of following them to achieve maximum benefits of a goal setting program.		[Forsblom, Kim; Matilainen, Pertti; Lintunen, Taru] Univ Jyvaskyla, Dept Sport Sci, Jyvaskyla 40014, Finland; [Konttinen, Niilo] Res Inst Olymp Sports, Jyvaskyla, Finland; [Weinberg, Robert] Miami Univ, Dept Kinesiol & Hlth, Oxford, OH 45056 USA; [Forsblom, Kim] Dept Sport Sci, POB 35 L, Jyvaskyla 40014, Finland								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000489412900001	30	Article; Article		
J	Wang, Szu-Heng; Yu, Tung-Yang; Lin, Yin-Chou; Liao, Pei-Chi; Tsai, Wen-Chung								Deformation of coracoacromial ligament during overhead movement as an early indicator of subacromial impingement in elite adolescent badminton players								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				47	4			427	432		10.1080/00913847.2019.1613095			OCT 2 2019	2019	Objectives: Deformation of the coracoacromial ligament during overhead movement has been linked to shoulder pathologies such as impingement and rotator cuff tear. We, therefore, explored this relationship in a group of elite adolescent badminton players. Method: We performed bilateral shoulder physical and ultrasonographic examination in 35 adolescent asymptomatic badminton players, 13 players with unilateral shoulder pain, and 15 non-athletes of similar age. Coracoacromial ligament deformation, defined as the maximal vertical distance between the ligament apex to a line connecting the acromion and coracoid process, was measured during shoulder abduction and internal rotation and compared within and between groups. Other ultrasonographic measurements and the incidence of shoulder pathologies were also evaluated. Result: Among badminton athletes who reported dominant shoulder pain, coracoacromial ligament deformation was significantly larger in their dominant shoulder than in their non-dominant shoulder (3.5 and 2.0 mm, respectively; p = 0.013); this difference was not present in other groups. Regardless of the presence or absence of pain, athletes displayed more coracoacromial ligament deformation and increased supraspinatus tendon thickness in their dominant shoulder than did the control group. Abnormal ultrasound findings were noted in all groups; however, the incidence was not significantly different. Conclusion: Increased coracoacromial ligament deformation during overhead movement is associated with shoulder pain in elite adolescent badminton players. Our findings may help clinicians identify athletes at risk of subacromial impingement syndrome.		[Wang, Szu-Heng; Yu, Tung-Yang] Chang Gung Mem Hosp, Dept Phys Med & Rehabil, Linkou, Taiwan; [Lin, Yin-Chou; Tsai, Wen-Chung] Chang Gung Mem Hosp, Dept Phys Med & Rehabil, 5 Fuxing St, Taoyuan 333, Taiwan; [Liao, Pei-Chi] Natl Taipei Univ Nursing & Hlth Sci, Dept Exercise & Hlth Sci, Taipei, Taiwan; [Tsai, Wen-Chung] Chang Gung Mem Hosp, Dept Phys Med & Rehabil, 5 Fuxing St, Taoyuan 333, Taiwan								30							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000499496500009	38	Article; Article		
J	Nevins, Derek; Smith, Lloyd; Kensrud, Jeffrey								Available response time for female pitchers in youth through collegiate fastpitch softball								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				21	2			212	225		10.1080/14763141.2019.1657931			FEB 7 2022	2022	The purpose of this study was to quantify the relationship between age and available response time in fastpitch softball for pitchers, which is necessary to evaluate the efficacy of interventions designed to decrease player response times and determine if player protective equipment are necessary. High speed video was used to measure ball impact location relative to home plate, swing speed, and ball exit velocity of 588 swings taken by 87 female fastpitch softball players 9 to 24?years old. Available response time considered age-appropriate ball aerodynamics, field dimensions, ball impact location, and pitcher advancement during pitch delivery. Mean available response times were reported for each age group, with the lowest observed for collegiate-aged participants at 326?ms. Available response time was observed to decrease as age increased, but did not undergo rapid change between any age groups. In light of prior investigations regarding response time in softball, the results of this study suggest older participants may not have enough time to execute a protective manoeuvre.		[Nevins, Derek; Smith, Lloyd; Kensrud, Jeffrey] Washington State Univ, Sch Mech & Mat Engn, Pullman, WA 99164 USA; [Nevins, Derek] Washington State Univ, Sch Mech & Mat Engn, Pullman, WA 99164 USA								6							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000488383000001	26	Article; Article		
J	Chia, Jingyi Shannon; Chow, Jia Yi; Barrett, Laura Ann; Burns, Stephen Francis								Reliability of a Novel Badminton Intermittent Exercise Protocol								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				90	4			487	496		10.1080/02701367.2019.1620911			OCT 2 2019	2019	Purpose: Badminton is a sport characterized by high-intensity activity interspersed with short rests requiring specific physiological fitness, skills and game tactics. This study aimed to develop, describe and establish the reliability of a novel badminton intermittent exercise protocol, to simulate singles match-play (Part A) and assess match-fitness (Part B). Method: Twelve well-trained male badminton players performed a two-part protocol, mimicking the demands and activity of match-play, on two occasions with at least 72-h recovery. Part A imitated match-play and consisted of 40 stages alternating between 20 s work - receiving shuttlecocks from a launcher and ghosting (simulated) actions - and 40 s rest. Part B was an open-ended period, challenging match-fitness, designed to exhaust participants within 10 min. Physiological responses (heart rate, blood lactate and ratings of perceived exertion) (Part A and B) and time to exhaustion (Part B) were determined both times. Results: There were no differences in performance and physiological responses between trials (p > .05). The protocol demonstrated excellent reliability (intraclass correlation coefficient > 0.89) for all variables. Time to exhaustion (Part B) was 198 +/- 98 s and 194 +/- 82 s, respectively. Mean (Part A) and peak (Part B) heart rates were 166 +/- 9; 191 +/- 8 b center dot min(-1) and 166 +/- 9; 191 +/- 7 b center dot min(-1) and blood lactate concentrations (Part B) 11.8 +/- 2.3 and 11.5 +/- 2.1 mmol center dot l(-1) for trials 1 and 2, respectively. Conclusion: The protocol reliably induces match-like responses and can be used to assess match-fitness for training/research purposes.		[Chia, Jingyi Shannon; Chow, Jia Yi; Burns, Stephen Francis] Nanyang Technol Univ, Singapore, Singapore; [Barrett, Laura Ann] Loughborough Univ, Loughborough, Leics, England; [Burns, Stephen Francis] Nanyang Technol Univ, Natl Inst Educ, Phys Educ & Sports Sci, 1 Nanyang Walk, Singapore 637616, Singapore								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000496993600007	39	Article; Article		
J	Qin, Charles; Helfrich, Mia M.; Curtis, Daniel M.; Ho, Sherwin; Athiviraham, Aravind								The effect of surgical setting on anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction outcomes								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				47	4			411	415		10.1080/00913847.2019.1592335			OCT 2 2019	2019	Objective: Ambulatory surgical centers (ASC's) have emerged as an alternative to the traditional hospital- based outpatient department (HOPD). We aim to determine the effect of surgical setting on adverse events following anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction (ACLR). Methods: The Humana Claims Database was queried for all patients undergoing ACLR in the HOPD or ASC setting, using the PearlDiver supercomputer. To eliminate selection bias in our study, the HOPD and ASC cohorts were propensity score matched on baseline demographics, comorbidities, and operative factors. Comparisons between the matched cohorts were made using chi-square tests. Logistic regression models were created to determine the effect of surgical setting on adverse events. Results: A total of 13,647 patients were queried in our study, 5,298 of whom underwent surgery in an ASC and 8,349 of whom underwent surgery in an HOPD. Analysis of the post-matched cohort revealed no differences between cohorts for mechanical failure, nerve injury, pulmonary embolism, septic joint, wound infection, revision surgery and readmission. Rates of deep vein thrombosis (1.18% vs 1.84%; p = .03) were significantly lower in the ASC group. On logistic regression, ASC was associated with decreased risk for deep vein thrombosis (.87, .83-.93) and pulmonary embolism (.85, .78-.95). Conclusion: ACLR performed in ASC is associated with reduced risk of venous thromboembolism and no difference in surgical morbidity and readmissions versus ACLR performed in HOPD. Development of a standardized algorithm for patient selection in the ASC setting is needed to preserve acceptability of ASC-based ACLR in cost-savings and patient safety models.		[Qin, Charles; Curtis, Daniel M.; Ho, Sherwin; Athiviraham, Aravind] Univ Chicago, Dept Orthopaed Surg & Rehabil, 5841 South Maryland Ave, Chicago, IL 60637 USA; [Helfrich, Mia M.] Northwestern Univ, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Chicago, IL USA; [Qin, Charles] Univ Chicago, Dept Orthopaed Surg & Rehabil, 5841 South Maryland Ave, Chicago, IL 60637 USA								3							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000499496500006	26	Article; Article		
J	Brown, Justin; Del Pozzi, Andrew T.; Hicks-Little, Charlie								Anxiety Disorders and Exercise: The Role for Health and Fitness Professionals								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				41	5			41	47		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000465			OCT 2019	2019	Anxiety disorders are psychological conditions that have both behavioral and physiological responses that can be detrimental to health and quality of life for those who experience them. In addition, anxiety disorders share features that define and separate them from depressive disorders. Typical treatment includes prescription medications and cognitive behavioral therapy. The purpose of this article is to familiarize the health and fitness professional (hfp) with the special considerations that should be addressed when working with clients who have anxiety disorders. Specifically, the prevalence of the condition and client responses to aerobic, resistance, and yoga exercise will be covered.		[Brown, Justin; Hicks-Little, Charlie] Univ Utah, Dept Exercise & Sport Sci, Salt Lake City, UT 84112 USA; [Del Pozzi, Andrew T.] Ball State Univ, Sch Kinesiol, Integrat Exercise Physiol Lab, Muncie, IN 47306 USA; [Brown, Justin] Univ Utah, Dept Exercise & Sport Sci, Salt Lake City, UT 84112 USA								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:000509685200005	49	Article; Article		
J	Mota, Jacob A.; Nuckols, Greg; Smith-Ryan, Abbie E.								Nutritional Periodization: Applications for the Strength Athlete								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				41	5			69	78		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000488			OCT 2019	2019	Nutritional periodization is defined as the preplanned and strategic use of nutritional interventions in efforts to optimize exercise performance and body composition throughout the training program of athletes. Owing to the novelty of the body of literature surrounding nutritional periodization, the direct application of this idea to strength or power athletes has yet to be thoroughly discussed. The purpose of this review is to synthesize the available literature regarding nutritional strategies that may aid the performance of strength and power athletes and discuss how these nutritional strategies can be periodized and integrated into the athlete's preprogrammed training plan.		[Mota, Jacob A.; Nuckols, Greg; Smith-Ryan, Abbie E.] Univ North Carolina Chapel Hill, Dept Exercise & Sport Sci, Chapel Hill, NC 27599 USA; [Mota, Jacob A.; Smith-Ryan, Abbie E.] Univ North Carolina Chapel Hill, Human Movement Sci Curriculum, Chapel Hill, NC 27599 USA; [Smith-Ryan, Abbie E.] Univ North Carolina Chapel Hill, Dept Allied Hlth Sci, Chapel Hill, NC 27599 USA; [Smith-Ryan, Abbie E.] Univ North Carolina Chapel Hill, Dept Exercise & Sport Sci, Chapel Hill, NC 27599 USA; [Smith-Ryan, Abbie E.] Univ North Carolina Chapel Hill, Human Movement Sci Curriculum, Chapel Hill, NC 27599 USA; [Smith-Ryan, Abbie E.] Univ North Carolina Chapel Hill, Dept Allied Hlth Sci, Chapel Hill, NC 27599 USA								9							Sport Sciences	WOS:000509685200009	61	Article; Article		
J	Bender, Blake								Energy System Development in the Weight Room: Incorporating Prescribed Rest Periods for NCAA Men's Basketball Players								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				41	5			57	61		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000487			OCT 2019	2019	Training programs often vary sets and reps to achieve different training goals. Rest is not often programmed within an annual training cycle but can be prescribed in resistance training sessions to further develop energy systems demanded by sport. Specifically, basketball includes intermittent periods of moderate to high intensity, deriving most of its energy from the adenosine triphosphate-phosphocreatine and anaerobic glycolytic systems. By identifying specific work:rest ratios in basketball, strength coaches can prescribe logical rest periods within a weight training session. Not only will this enhance overall energy system development, but will also provide more structure to strength training routines.		[Bender, Blake] Univ North Carolina Charlotte, UNC Charlotte Athlet, Charlotte, NC 28223 USA; [Bender, Blake] Univ North Carolina Charlotte, UNC Charlotte Athlet, Charlotte, NC 28223 USA								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:000509685200007	14	Article; Article		
J	Hill, Christopher R.								The Kohler Effect: A Motivational Strategy for Strength and Conditioning								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				41	5			90	95		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000475			OCT 2019	2019	Strength and conditioning (sc) settings are increasingly using the benefits of group training. However, research in social psychology has largely found people do not work as hard when in group settings. More recent evidence suggests with thoughtful design of groups and the task structure, the effort losses previously seen can be turned into effort gains. This article will review research that examines 1 particular motivation gain seen in the literature, the kohler effect. Specifically, this article will provide practical suggestions of how the kohler effect can be harnessed and used in sc settings.		[Hill, Christopher R.] Calif State Univ San Bernardino, Dept Kinesiol, San Bernardino, CA 92407 USA; [Hill, Christopher R.] Calif State Univ San Bernardino, Dept Kinesiol, San Bernardino, CA 92407 USA								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:000509685200012	19	Article; Article		
J	Uthoff, Aaron; Oliver, Jon; Cronin, John; Winwood, Paul; Harrison, Craig								Backward Running: The Why and How to Program for Better Athleticism								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				41	5			48	56		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000459			OCT 2019	2019	Backward running (BR) is a common locomotive technique used by most overground athletes during both competition and training, yet there are limited empirically based recommendations for using BR training for athletes. This article highlights the role of BR in sports context, provides insights into why BR may benefit athletes, and recommends how to integrate BR into strength and conditioning programs. Informed guidance is provided on the practical applications for athletes, which should help speed and strength coaches design and facilitate BR in a safe and progressively overloaded fashion for youth and adult athletes alike.		[Uthoff, Aaron; Oliver, Jon; Cronin, John; Winwood, Paul; Harrison, Craig] AUT Univ, Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand SPRINZ, AUT Millennium, Auckland, New Zealand; [Oliver, Jon] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Youth Phys Dev Ctr, Sch Sport, Cyncoed Campus, Cardiff, Wales; [Winwood, Paul] Toi Ohomai Inst Technol, Dept Sport & Fitness, Fac Community Wellbeing & Dev, Tauranga, New Zealand; [Uthoff, Aaron] AUT Univ, Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand SPRINZ, AUT Millennium, Auckland, New Zealand								10							Sport Sciences	WOS:000509685200006	65	Article; Article		
J	Kaplan, Kelby; Olivencia, Ovidio; Dreger, Melissa; Hanney, William J.; Kolber, Morey J.								Achilles Tendinopathy: An Evidence-Based Overview for the Sports Medicine Professional								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				41	5			24	40		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000485			OCT 2019	2019	Achilles tendinopathy (at) is a condition whereby individuals experience pain and impairments as a result of pathological changes at the achilles tendon and neighboring tissues. This article provides an evidence-based overview of the structural pathology and clinical sequela associated with at. The evidence underpinning more common treatments, with an emphasis on exercise interventions, is presented in an effort to mitigate the impairment sequela and guide sports medicine professionals in their choice of treatments for at.		[Kaplan, Kelby; Olivencia, Ovidio; Dreger, Melissa; Kolber, Morey J.] Nova Southeastern Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Ft Lauderdale, FL 33314 USA; [Hanney, William J.] Univ Cent Florida, Dept Kinesiol & Phys Therapy, Orlando, FL 32816 USA; [Kaplan, Kelby] Nova Southeastern Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Ft Lauderdale, FL 33314 USA								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:000509685200004	124	Article; Article		
J	Huffman, Christopher								Exercise Interventions for the Management of Huntington's Disease								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				41	5			62	68		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000479			OCT 2019	2019	Evaluating and improving the performance of activities of daily living is of paramount importance to maintaining the long-term physical capability of individuals with huntington's disease (HD). Because most pharmacologic and psychiatric treatments for HD are focused on the management of signs and symptoms of the disease rather than delaying progressive onset of clinical manifestation, exercise interventions may be a promising solution to provide beneficial improvements in functional capacity and neuromotor function while delaying care dependency.		[Huffman, Christopher] Volit Fitness, Garden City, ID 83714 USA; [Huffman, Christopher] Volit Fitness, Garden City, ID 83714 USA								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:000509685200008	34	Article; Article		
J	Tungate, Phil								The Bench Press: A Comparison Between Flat-Back and Arched-Back Techniques								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				41	5			86	89		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000494			OCT 2019	2019	The arch-back bench press technique is becoming more common with the rising popularity of the sport of powerlifting. This technique is best implemented by coaches who aim for their advanced athletes to handle higher loads with reduced range of motion in meso-cycles where strength and power are prioritized. Other methods are available for nonpowerlifting athletes to obtain the same results without learning this technique.		[Tungate, Phil] Catalyst Hlth, Toronto, ON, Canada; [Tungate, Phil] Catalyst Hlth, Toronto, ON, Canada								11							Sport Sciences	WOS:000509685200011	28	Article; Article		
J	Nutter, Drew L.								Considerations for Coaching Athletes With Prosthetic Limbs for Transtibial and Transfemoral Amputations								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				41	5			1	8		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000463			OCT 2019	2019	Technological and procedural advancements have made it easier for people with amputations or other impairments to engage in strength training. Although overall strength training principles do not change for these athletes, special considerations should be applied. The goal of this article is to identify and discuss those considerations and provide examples of the trial and error process that can occur to optimize and provide effective coaching for the athlete with a lower extremity prosthesis.		[Nutter, Drew L.] Kenney Orthoped, Paducah, KY 42003 USA; [Nutter, Drew L.] Kenney Orthoped, Paducah, KY 42003 USA								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:000509685200001	12	Article; Article		
J	Baiget, Ernest; Iglesias, Xavier; Fuentes, Juan Pedro; Rodriguez, Ferran A.								New Approaches for On-court Endurance Testing and Conditioning in Competitive Tennis Players								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				41	5			9	16		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000470			OCT 2019	2019	The control and quantification of internal and external training loads is essential to the correct design of training programs. In tennis, along with anaerobic, psychological, and tactical abilities, technical skills and endurance conditioning are key to competitive performance. Therefore, it could be useful to use testing and training loads and methods that include physiological and technical parameters at the same time. The aim of this review is to identify a new training load parameter, suitable for on-court use in tennis, based on technical and physiological skills, to allow control of internal and external loads.		[Baiget, Ernest; Iglesias, Xavier; Rodriguez, Ferran A.] Univ Barcelona, INEFC, Barcelona, Spain; [Baiget, Ernest] Univ Vic Cent Univ Catalonia UVic UCC, Sport Performance Anal Res Grp, Barcelona, Spain; [Iglesias, Xavier; Rodriguez, Ferran A.] Univ Barcelona, INEFC Barcelona Res Grp Sport Sci, Barcelona, Spain; [Fuentes, Juan Pedro] Univ Extremadura UEX, Sports Sci Fac, Caceres, Spain; [Baiget, Ernest] Univ Barcelona, INEFC, Barcelona, Spain; [Baiget, Ernest] Univ Vic Cent Univ Catalonia UVic UCC, Sport Performance Anal Res Grp, Barcelona, Spain								9							Sport Sciences	WOS:000509685200002	38	Article; Article		
J	Karageorghis, Costas, I; Hutchinson, Jasmin C.; Bigliassi, Marcelo; Watson, Michael P. E.; Perry, Francis A.; Burges, Lewis D.; Melville-Griffiths, Troy; Gomes-Baho, Tristan J. G.								Effects of auditory-motor synchronization on 400-m sprint performance: An applied study								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				14	6			738	748	1747954119879359	10.1177/1747954119879359			DEC 2019	2019	There is a conspicuous dearth of empirical research regarding the ergogenic and psychological effects of synchronous music when applied in a sports training context. The main purpose of this longitudinal intervention study was to investigate the ergogenic and psychological effects of synchronous music applied over a one-month period of speed endurance training. Twelve participants (six women and six men; 21.1 +/- 1.7 years) were randomly assigned to either an experimental group (sprint training coordinated with synchronous music) or a control group (conventional sprint training). Immediately after each training session and each time trial, the Feeling Scale, CR-10 Rating of Perceived Exertion Scale, and Physical Activity Enjoyment Scale were administered to each participant. No significant interaction effect of Group x Time for Rating of Perceived Exertion (p = .898) or Physical Activity Enjoyment Scale (p = .411) was identified during the training sessions. A significant Group x Time interaction was identified for Feeling Scale scores (p = .007). Nonetheless, following Bonferroni adjustment for pairwise comparisons, the between-group differences in Feeling Scale scores did not reach significance. No significant interaction effect of Group x Time or main effect of group was identified for sprint performance, although the latter effect was associated with a large effect size (eta(2)(p) = 0.35). Experimental group participants executed the 400-m time trials 5.07% faster than control group participants. This finding is noteworthy from an applied perspective, given the potential ergogenic effects associated with auditory-motor synchronization.		[Karageorghis, Costas, I; Watson, Michael P. E.; Perry, Francis A.; Burges, Lewis D.; Melville-Griffiths, Troy; Gomes-Baho, Tristan J. G.] Brunel Univ London, Dept Life Sci, Uxbridge UB8 3PH, Middx, England; [Hutchinson, Jasmin C.] Springfield Coll, Exercise Sci & Sport Studies Dept, Springfield, MA USA; [Bigliassi, Marcelo] Univ Sao Paulo, Sch Phys Educ & Sport, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Karageorghis, Costas, I] Brunel Univ London, Dept Life Sci, Uxbridge UB8 3PH, Middx, England								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000488706200001	45	Article; Article		
J	Segura, Jerome, III; Willner, Jonathan								Athleticism in NCAA D-III: It Ain't Only Football That Matters								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				20	7			929	958		10.1177/1527002519832070			OCT 2019	2019	Most D-III universities field a football team, yet little is known about how a football program can influence the quality of the student body or rate at which students graduate. To evaluate these advertising and effectiveness effects of football, we build balanced panel data sets using available private D-III universities (80-90% of all D-III universities) from 2003 through 2010. We also account for overall athletic participation. Using generalized linear model (GLM) and linear-in-means estimation procedures, we find conditional evidence of the advertising and effectiveness hypotheses of football. We find that female athletes are successful as advertising and effectiveness, while male athletes are negative advertising and of neutral to negative effectiveness.		[Segura, Jerome, III] Numbers & Nat, Stevens Point, WI USA; [Willner, Jonathan] Oklahoma City Univ, Meinders Sch Business, Oklahoma City, OK USA; [Segura, Jerome, III] 2117 Main St, Stevens Point, WI 54481 USA								2							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000483604900003	49	Article; Article		
J	Mares, Dennis; Blackburn, Emily								Major League Baseball and Crime: Opportunity, Spatial Patterns, and Team Rivalry at St. Louis Cardinal Games								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				20	7			875	902		10.1177/1527002518822702			OCT 2019	2019	Hosting professional sports teams is often seen as a financial benefit for cities. In the following analysis, we provide evidence that sports teams also carry costs. The analysis, the first examining a Major League Baseball team, finds significant increases in a variety of crimes during home game days of the St. Louis Cardinals. Adjusting for attendance and game length, this study finds that larcenies, motor vehicle thefts, minor assaults, disorderly conduct, and destruction of property increase in volume during game days. Increases concentrate especially around the immediate stadium area, but some are also observable in citywide levels of crime. Additionally, this study examines differences between the time of day a game is played and games played against its historic rival, the Chicago Cubs.		[Mares, Dennis] Southern Illinois Univ Edwardsville, Peck Hall,Box 1455, Edwardsville, IL 62026 USA; [Blackburn, Emily] St Louis Metropolitan Police Dept, Crime Anal Unit, St Louis, MO USA; [Mares, Dennis] Southern Illinois Univ Edwardsville, Peck Hall,Box 1455, Edwardsville, IL 62026 USA								29							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000483604900001	41	Article; Article		
J	Hoffer, Adam; Pincin, Jared A.								Quantifying NFL Players' Value With the Help of Vegas Point Spreads Values								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				20	7			959	974		10.1177/1527002519832060			OCT 2019	2019	This study develops a new method for converting performance statistics into marginal product by using Las Vegas sportsbooks' individual point spread values (PSVs) for National Football League players. This sarticle employs a Tobit model due to the prevalence of player PSVs that are 0. We find that quarterbacks dominate the player's values. Passing yards per game, passing touchdowns, and rushing touchdowns are the only findings that are consistently significantly related to PSVs.		[Hoffer, Adam] Univ Wisconsin La Crosse, Dept Econ, La Crosse, WI 54601 USA; [Pincin, Jared A.] Kings Coll, Sch Polit Philosophy & Econ, New York, NY USA; [Hoffer, Adam] Univ Wisconsin La Crosse, Dept Econ, La Crosse, WI 54601 USA								4							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000483604900004	26	Article; Article		
J	Guo, Mengmeng; Fu, Shihe								Running With a Mask? The Effect of Air Pollution on Marathon Runners' Performance								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				20	7			903	928		10.1177/1527002518822701			OCT 2019	2019	Using a sample of more than 0.3 million marathon runners of 56 race events in China in 2014 and 2015, we estimate the air pollution elasticity of finish time to be 0.041. Our causal identification comes from the exogeneity of air pollution on the race day because runners are required to register for a race a few months in advance and we control for confounding factors. Including individual fixed effects also provides consistent evidence. Our study contributes to the emerging literature on the effect of air pollution on short-run productivity, particularly on the performance of athletes engaging in outdoor sports.		[Guo, Mengmeng] Southwestern Univ Finance & Econ, Res Inst Econ & Management, Chengdu, Sichuan, Peoples R China; [Fu, Shihe] Xiamen Univ, Sch Econ, Gregory & Paula Chow Ctr Econ Res, 422 Siming South Rd, Xiamen 361005, Fujian, Peoples R China; [Fu, Shihe] Xiamen Univ, Sch Econ, Gregory & Paula Chow Ctr Econ Res, 422 Siming South Rd, Xiamen 361005, Fujian, Peoples R China								47							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000483604900002	46	Article; Article		
J	Crotty, Evan D.; Hayes, Kevin; Harrison, Andrew J.								Sprint start performance: the potential influence of triceps surae electromechanical delay								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				21	5			604	621		10.1080/14763141.2019.1657932			MAY 28 2022	2022	In the sprint start, a defined sequence of distinct response delays occurs before the athlete produces a movement response. Excitation of lower limb muscles occurs prior to force production against the blocks, culminating in a movement response. The time delay between muscle excitation and movement, electromechanical delay (EMD), is considered to influence sprint start response time (SSRT). This study examined the delay in sprint start performance from EMD of the triceps surae muscle and examined whether certain sprinters gain an advantage in SSRT. Nineteen experienced sprinters performed sprint starts from blocks, with SSRT measured by an International Association of Athletics Federations (IAAF)-approved starting block system. EMD times were detected during a heel-lift experiment. Using revised SSRT limits, based on concerns over the validity of the IAAF 100?ms false start limit, EMD produced a significant moderate correlation with SSRT (r =?0.572, p =?0.011). Regression analysis determined that together, EMD and signal processing time (the delay between the auditory signal and muscle excitation) accounted for 37% of the variance in SSRT. Initial results suggest EMD is part of the response time process and that certain athletes may gain a performance advantage due to reduced EMD.		[Crotty, Evan D.; Harrison, Andrew J.] Univ Limerick, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Biomech Res Unit, Limerick, Ireland; [Hayes, Kevin] Univ Coll Cork, Sch Math Sci, Cork, Ireland; [Crotty, Evan D.] Univ Limerick, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Biomech Res Unit, Limerick, Ireland								6							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000488383200001	26	Article; Article		
J	Peel, Shelby A.; Weinhandl, Joshua T.								Task but not arm restriction influences lower extremity joint mechanics during bilateral landings								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				21	5			637	653		10.1080/14763141.2019.1659394			MAY 28 2022	2022	Box and jump landing tasks are commonly used to study lower extremity injury mechanisms, such as anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) injuries. Arm restriction during these tasks is typically determined via researcher preference. Therefore, the purpose of this study was to compare three-dimensional lower extremity kinematics and kinetics during bilateral box and jump landings, and to determine the effects of arm restriction. Twenty-eight participants (14 males, 14 females) completed three bilateral landings tasks: box landings with arms unrestricted (BLA), box landings with arms restricted against the trunk (BLNA) and jump landings (JL). Right leg joint kinematics and kinetics were collected and compared between landing tasks. No statistically significant differences were found between BLA and BLNA, therefore arm restriction did not appear to influence lower extremity variables during bilateral box landings. However, specific injury-related variables, such as peak knee adduction moment differed between box and jump landings (BLNA: 0.31 +/- 0.3 Nm/(kg center dot m)); JL: 0.45 +/- 0.3 Nm/(kg center dot m); p = 0.020). Our results suggest that based on study purpose, careful consideration is needed when determining what bilateral landing task to choose during data collection.		[Peel, Shelby A.; Weinhandl, Joshua T.] Univ Tennessee, Dept Kinesiol Recreat & Sports Studies, Knoxville, TN 37996 USA; [Weinhandl, Joshua T.] Univ Tennessee, Dept Kinesiol Recreat & Sports Studies, Knoxville, TN 37996 USA								2							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000487903100001	56	Article; Article		
J	Backer, Henrik Constantin; Busko, Morgan; Krause, Fabian Gotz; Exadaktylos, Aristomenis Konstantinos; Klukowska-Roetzler, Jolanta; Deml, Moritz Caspar								Exertional rhabdomyolysis and causes of elevation of creatine kinase								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				48	2			179	185		10.1080/00913847.2019.1669410			APR 2 2020	2020	Background: Rhabdomyolysis is a potentially fatal condition that can be triggered by a variety of inciting events, including excessive muscular exertion. The purpose of this study was to investigate the causes of creatine kinase elevation (CK?1000U/L) to determine what percentage result from exRML, the etiology, and kinetics of CK levels, as well as the complications of exRML and comorbidities that may predispose an individual to this condition. Methods: We performed a cross-sectional analysis of the emergency department database for patients with CK?1000U/L between 2012 and 2017. In total, there were 1957 cases of rhabdomyolysis diagnosed based on laboratory data and documentation. Trauma was the most common cause for rhabdomyolysis (n = 726/1957; 37.1%, respectively). Results: ExRML was identified in 2.1% (n = 42/1957) of the total cases. Patients with ExRML were significantly younger (30.1 ? 10.6 years) with a significantly higher maximal level of CK compared to the non-exertional causes of rhabdomyolysis, (CK = 16,884.4 ? 41,645.6U/L; both p < 0.005). The far majority of cases were sport or exercise related (n = 35/42; 83.3%), with strength training at the gym making up the largest group of athletes (n = 16/42; 38.1%). The main complication amongst the ExRML group was acute kidney insufficiency, which was observed in 42.9% of patients. The CK levels of the patients in the ExRML cohort steadily decreased after initiation of aggressive hydration. Conclusion: ExRML may be more prevalent than the current literature predicts, which is important to recognize as it has the potential to cause kidney failure, irregular heart rhythm, and death. Therefore, physicians and active individuals should be sensitized to the signs and symptoms that may lead to earlier recognition and proper treatment in exercising individuals.		[Backer, Henrik Constantin; Krause, Fabian Gotz; Deml, Moritz Caspar] Univ Bern, Univ Hosp Bern, Inselspital Bern, Dept Orthopaed & Trauma Surg, Bern, Switzerland; [Backer, Henrik Constantin; Busko, Morgan] Columbia Univ, Presbyterian Hosp, Med Ctr, Dept Orthopaed Surg, New York, NY USA; [Exadaktylos, Aristomenis Konstantinos; Klukowska-Roetzler, Jolanta] Univ Bern, Univ Hosp Bern, Inselspital Bern, Dept Emergency Med, Bern, Switzerland; [Backer, Henrik Constantin] Univ Bern, Univ Hosp Bern, Inselspital Bern, Bern, Switzerland								22							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000488292100001	37	Article; Article		
J	Battochio, Randy C.; Stambulova, Natalia								Coping resources and strategies of Canadian ice-hockey players: An empirical National Hockey League career model								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				14	6			726	737	1747954119878853	10.1177/1747954119878853			DEC 2019	2019	Sport psychology researchers have studied careers of Canadian ice hockey players in the National Hockey League (NHL) and devised an empirical NHL career model. The model was comprised of career stages, statuses, demands and barriers to career progression without any indication of coping. The intent in the present article is to feature coping resources and strategies utilized by players during each status and career stage within the empirical model. Five rookies, 5 veterans, and 13 retirees participated in conversational interviews and the data underwent a deductive thematic analysis. Prospects seeking to gain entry into the NHL set controllable expectations rather than playing to impress coaches and staff. Most prospects played in the minor leagues where they adjusted their expectations to accept roles that they were likely to have during an NHL call-up. The career stage of developing as an NHL player was about rookies producing immediately in their role while holding off internal competition for their roster spot. In the same stage, sophomores were in their second full NHL season and they studied their opponents to avoid the sophomore slump. The stage of reaching the NHL elite involved constant pressure for point production and winning playoff games. The final stage was about seasoned veterans maintaining NHL play involvement by preserving their physique despite being worn down from long careers in a contact sport. The authors will discuss the significance of the model for sport psychology researchers and practitioners, and NHL stakeholders.		[Battochio, Randy C.] Laurentian Univ, Sch Human Kinet, 935 Ramsay Lake Rd, Sudbury, ON P3E 2C6, Canada; [Stambulova, Natalia] Halmstad Univ, Sch Hlth & Welf, Halmstad, Sweden; [Battochio, Randy C.] Laurentian Univ, Sch Human Kinet, 935 Ramsay Lake Rd, Sudbury, ON P3E 2C6, Canada								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000488708300001	29	Article; Article		
J	LiBrizzi, Christa L.; Rojas, Jorge L.; Bontrager, Nicholas C.; Srikumaran, Uma; McFarland, Edward G.								Suprascapular nerve entrapment in young kayaker: a case report								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				48	2			236	240		10.1080/00913847.2019.1662273			APR 2 2020	2020	Kayaking has become one of the most popular paddle sports throughout the world. The shoulder is the most commonly injured area of the body among kayaking participants as a result of acute traumatic events and chronic overuse injuries. Therefore, kayaking participants may often seek advice for shoulder problems and there is a scarcity of studies regarding shoulder injuries in this population. In this case report, we present a young male recreational whitewater kayaker with a severe suprascapular nerve (SSN) entrapment who presented with shoulder pain and inability to perform his sport. He was initially evaluated elsewhere and was treated with nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory medications and physical therapy for presumptive diagnosis of subacromial impingement. After 5 months of failed non-operative treatment, the patient sought a second opinion with our group. SSN entrapment diagnosis was confirmed by a thorough careful physical examination, magnetic resonance imaging and electrodiagnostic study. Given the failure of non-operative treatment, the patient was treated with arthroscopic SSN decompression and successfully returned to kayaking without symptoms. While SSN entrapment has been reported in a variety of sports, especially those involving overhead movements, this is the first case report of SSN entrapment reported which impaired participation in kayaking. This case report supports the consideration of SSN entrapment in the differential diagnosis of painful shoulder among kayaking participants and highlights the importance of undressing the patient and examining the posterior shoulder for atrophy, winging or deformity.		[LiBrizzi, Christa L.; Rojas, Jorge L.; Bontrager, Nicholas C.; Srikumaran, Uma; McFarland, Edward G.] Johns Hopkins Univ, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Div Shoulder Surg, Baltimore, MD USA; [McFarland, Edward G.] Johns Hopkins Univ, Dept Orthopaed Surg, 10753 Falls Rd,Suite 215, Lutherville Timonium, MD 21093 USA								5							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000486930100001	43	Article; Article		
J	Chandrakumaran, Jemuel								How Did the AFL National Draft Mitigate Perverse Incentives?								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				21	2			139	151	1527002519873128	10.1177/1527002519873128			FEB 2020	2020	Similar to the National Basketball Association and the National Hockey League, the reverse-order nature of the Australian Football League (AFL) national player draft has often times been speculated to induce tanking. However, a prior study found that there is no evidence of tanking within the AFL. This study tests this assumption under four periods, namely, pre-2006, 2006-2011, 2012-2014, and post-2014, to reflect the changes in rules. While the results concur with the previous study, the behavior of teams in the priority pick era of the draft finds evidence to the contrary.		[Chandrakumaran, Jemuel] RMIT Univ, Sch Econ Finance & Mkt, 124 La Trobe St, Melbourne, Vic 3001, Australia; [Chandrakumaran, Jemuel] RMIT Univ, Sch Econ Finance & Mkt, 124 La Trobe St, Melbourne, Vic 3001, Australia								5							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000485629000001	17	Article; Article		
J	van den Tillaar, Roland; Gamble, Paul								Comparison of step-by-step kinematics of resisted, assisted and unloaded 20-m sprint runs								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				18	5			539	552		10.1080/14763141.2018.1442871			SEP 3 2019	2019	This investigation examined step-by-step kinematics of sprint running acceleration. Using a randomised counterbalanced approach, 37 female team handball players (age 17.8 +/- 1.6 years, body mass 69.6 +/- 9.1 kg, height 1.74 +/- 0.06 m) performed resisted, assisted and unloaded 20-m sprints within a single session. 20-m sprint times and step velocity, as well as step length, step frequency, contact and flight times of each step were evaluated for each condition with a laser gun and an infrared mat. Almost all measured parameters were altered for each step under the resisted and assisted sprint conditions (eta(2) >= 0.28). The exception was step frequency, which did not differ between assisted and normal sprints. Contact time, flight time and step frequency at almost each step were different between 'fast' vs. 'slow' sub-groups (eta(2) >= 0.22). Nevertheless overall both groups responded similarly to the respective sprint conditions. No significant differences in step length were observed between groups for the respective condition. It is possible that continued exposure to assisted sprinting might allow the female team-sports players studied to adapt their coordination to the 'over-speed' condition and increase step frequency. It is notable that step-by-step kinematics in these sprints were easy to obtain using relatively inexpensive equipment with possibilities of direct feedback.		[van den Tillaar, Roland] Nord Univ, Dept Sport Sci & Phys Educ, Levanger, Norway; [Gamble, Paul] Auckland Univ Technol, Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand, Auckland, New Zealand; [van den Tillaar, Roland] Nord Univ, Dept Sport Sci & Phys Educ, Levanger, Norway								10							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000475439300007	35	Article; Article		
J	Atack, Alexandra; Trewartha, Grant; Bezodis, Neil E.								Assessing rugby place kick performance from initial ball flight kinematics: development, validation and application of a new measure								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				18	5			457	469		10.1080/14763141.2018.1433714			SEP 3 2019	2019	The appropriate determination of performance outcome is critical when appraising a performer's technique. Previous studies of rugby place kicking technique have typically assessed performance based on ball velocity, but this is not the sole requirement. Therefore, a mathematical model of rugby place kick ball flight was developed to yield a single measure more representative of true performance. The model, which requires only initial ball flight kinematics, was calibrated and validated using empirical place kick data, and found to predict ball position with a mean error of 4.0% after 22 m of ball flight. The model was then applied to the performances of 33 place kickers. The predicted maximum distance, a single performance measure which accounted for initial ball velocity magnitude and direction, and spin, was determined using the model and was compared against ball velocity magnitude. A moderate association in the rank-order of the kicks between these two measures (rho = 0.52) revealed that the relative success of the kicks would be assessed differently with each measure. The developed model provides a representative measure of place kick performance that is understandable for coaches, and can be used to predict changes in performance outcome under different ball launch or environmental conditions.		[Atack, Alexandra] St Marys Univ, Sch Sport Hlth & Appl Sci, Twickenham, England; [Trewartha, Grant] Univ Bath, Dept Hlth, Bath, Avon, England; [Bezodis, Neil E.] Swansea Univ, Appl Sports Technol Exercise & Med A STEM Res Ctr, Swansea, W Glam, Wales; [Atack, Alexandra] St Marys Univ, Sch Sport Hlth & Appl Sci, Twickenham, England								7							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000475439300001	27	Article; Article		
J	Schons, Pedro; Da Rosa, Rodrigo Gomes; Fischer, Gabriela; Berriel, Guilherme Pereira; Fritsch, Carolina Gassen; Nakamura, Fabio Yuzo; Baroni, Bruno Manfredini; Peyre-Tartaruga, Leonardo Alexandre								The relationship between strength asymmetries and jumping performance in professional volleyball players								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				18	5			515	526		10.1080/14763141.2018.1435712			SEP 3 2019	2019	Knee peak torque (PT) is associated to jump performance in volleyball players. It is not clear whether muscle strength imbalances of the knee joint can influence jump performance. The purpose of study was to analyse the association between PT and knee muscular imbalances with jump performance in professional volleyball players. Eleven elite male volleyball players (90.3 +/- 9.7 kg body mass and 1.94 +/- 0.06 m height) were evaluated in an isokinetic dynamometer at speeds of 60, 180 and 300 deg/s. Muscle strength imbalances were obtained through calculation of contralateral deficit between limbs and the conventional ratio (hamstrings/quadriceps). Countermovement jump (CMJ) was performed on a force plate to calculate mechanical power and height. Association was found between knee extensor PT at 180 deg/s with CMJ power (r = 0.610, p = 0.046). Conventional ratio at 300 deg/s showed negative association with CMJ (r = -0.656, p = 0.029). The optimal ratio between knee extensors PT in relation to the flexors PT is associated with the greater mechanical power in CMJ. Contralateral deficit does not seem to be associated with the CMJ performance. Considering the knee extensor PT is associated with CMJ power, our findings suggest that strength-based training in volleyball athletes should not omit the conventional muscle ratio.		[Schons, Pedro; Da Rosa, Rodrigo Gomes; Berriel, Guilherme Pereira; Peyre-Tartaruga, Leonardo Alexandre] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Sul, Sch Phys Educ Phys Therapy & Dance, Exercise Res Lab, Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil; [Schons, Pedro; Peyre-Tartaruga, Leonardo Alexandre] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Sul, Hosp Clin Porto Alegre, Pulmonol Dept, Fac Med, Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil; [Fischer, Gabriela] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Sports Ctr, Dept Phys Educ, Florianopolis, SC, Brazil; [Fritsch, Carolina Gassen; Baroni, Bruno Manfredini] Fed Univ Hlth Sci Porto Alegre, Sch Phys Therapy, Dept Phys Therapy, Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil; [Nakamura, Fabio Yuzo] James Cook Univ, Coll Healthcare Sci, Townsville, Qld, Australia; [Nakamura, Fabio Yuzo] Univ G dAnnunzio, Dept Med & Aging Sci, Pescara, Italy; [Peyre-Tartaruga, Leonardo Alexandre] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Sul, Sch Phys Educ Phys Therapy & Dance, Exercise Res Lab, Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil; [Peyre-Tartaruga, Leonardo Alexandre] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Sul, Hosp Clin Porto Alegre, Pulmonol Dept, Fac Med, Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil								43							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000475439300005	34	Article; Article		
J	Monezi, Lucas Antonio; Magalhaes, Thiago Pinguelli; Morato, Marcio Pereira; Mercadante, Luciano Allegretti; Piva da Cunha Furtado, Otavio Luis; Misuta, Milton Shoiti								Time-motion analysis of goalball players in attacks: differences of the player positions and the throwing techniques*								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				18	5			470	481		10.1080/14763141.2018.1433871			SEP 3 2019	2019	In this study, we aimed to analyse goalball players time-motion variables (distance covered, time spent, maximum and average velocities) in official goalball match attacks, taking into account the attack phases (preparation and throwing), player position (centres and wings) and throwing techniques (frontal, spin and between the legs). A total of 365 attacks were assessed using a video based method (2D) through manual tracking using the Dvideo system. Inferential non-parametric statistics were applied for comparison of preparation vs. throwing phase, wings vs. centres and, among the throwing techniques, frontal, spin and between the legs. Significant differences were found between the attack preparation versus the throwing phase for all player time-motion variables: distance covered, time spent, maximum player velocity and average player velocity. Wing players performed most of the throws (85%) and covered longer distances than centres (1.65 vs 0.31 m). The between the legs and the spin throwing techniques presented greater values for most of the time-motion variables (distance covered, time spent and maximum player velocity) than did the frontal technique in both attack phases. These findings provide important information regarding players' movement patterns during goalball matches that can be used to plan more effective training.		[Monezi, Lucas Antonio; Magalhaes, Thiago Pinguelli; Mercadante, Luciano Allegretti; Misuta, Milton Shoiti] Univ Estadual Campinas, Sch Appl Sci, Biomech & Instrumentat Lab, Limeira, Brazil; [Morato, Marcio Pereira] Univ Sao Paulo, Sch Phys Educ & Sports Ribeirao Preto, Ribeirao Preto, Brazil; [Piva da Cunha Furtado, Otavio Luis] Univ Estadual Campinas, Phys Educ Coll, Adapted Phys Act Dept, Campinas, SP, Brazil; [Piva da Cunha Furtado, Otavio Luis] Univ Estadual Campinas, Phys Educ Coll, Adapted Phys Act Dept, Campinas, SP, Brazil								16							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000475439300002	22	Article; Article		
J	Holliday, Wendy; Theo, Raymond; Fisher, Julia; Swart, Jeroen								Cycling: joint kinematics and muscle activity during differing intensities								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				22	5			660	674		10.1080/14763141.2019.1640279			MAY 4 2023	2023	Full body kinematics and electromyographic (EMG) patterns may alter based on the workloads that are encountered during cycling. Understanding the effect of differing intensities on the cyclist can guide clinicians and bike fitters in improving specific muscle strength and cycling posture to optimise training and racing. We aimed to assess changes in lower limb EMG magnitudes and full body 3D kinematics of 17 well-trained cyclists at three different exercise intensities: 60%, 80% and 90% of maximum heart rate. Significant results were demonstrated for all the joints except the hip and shoulder. Cyclists' ankle dorsiflexion and knee extension increased between 6% and 9% with higher intensities. The elbow adopted a significantly more flexed position, increasing flexion by 39% from 60% to 90% intensity, whilst the lumbar and thoracic flexion increased by 7% at the higher intensity. There were significant increases in EMG signal amplitude at higher intensities for all muscle groups measured. These results will guide clinicians in strengthening specific muscles at specific ranges of the cycling pedal revolution. Guidelines for optimal bicycle configuration should take into account the full body position of the cyclist as well as the training and racing intensity when assessing kinematics.		[Holliday, Wendy; Theo, Raymond; Fisher, Julia; Swart, Jeroen] Univ Cape Town, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Human Biol, Div Exercise Sci & Sports Med, Cape Town, South Africa; [Holliday, Wendy] Univ Cape Town, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Human Biol, Div Exercise Sci & Sports Med, Cape Town, South Africa								48							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000484685800001	45	Article; Article		
J	Ward, Brodie; Thornton, Ashleigh; Lay, Brendan; Chen, Nigel; Rosenberg, Michael								Can Proficiency Criteria Be Accurately Identified During Real-Time Fundamental Movement Skill Assessment?								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				91	1			64	72		10.1080/02701367.2019.1646852			JAN 2 2020	2020	Purpose: Fundamental movement skill (FMS) assessors in education environments rely upon real-time FMS assessment; however, the recognition of individual proficiency criteria during real-time process-oriented FMS assessment may be problematic. Few studies consider the accuracy of identifying individual proficiency criteria in process-oriented FMS assessment, even though criteria are relied upon for intervention planning. This study aimed to further understand assessors' ability to recognize proficiency criteria during real-time FMS assessment and the impact of assessor experience on assessment accuracy. Methods: 10 primary teachers, and 7 pediatric professionals assessed 10 performances of four FMSs (Jump, Hop, Kick, Throw) presented in videos and point-light displays using the Test of Gross Motor Development-2. Results: Accuracy in identifying proficiency criteria was moderate for both pediatric professionals (74.73%) and primary teachers (69.58%), with no differences between groups. In contrast, reliability of overall proficiency scores was good to excellent (ICC>0.8) in both groups. Some individual criteria may be more difficult to assess, evidenced by large average accuracy ranges within skills (e.g., 46% difference between Throw criteria 1 (34%) and 2 (80%)). Conclusions: The study reinforces the difficulty of observing proficiency criteria during real-time FMS assessment regardless of assessor experience. Results suggest that assessors can accurately score overall FMS proficiency, whilst accurate identification of proficiency criteria is problematic. Accurate criterion identification is crucial to understand skill deficiencies and inform subsequent intervention. Attentional demands during real-time assessment may be too great to allow accurate criterion identification, even by experienced assessors, which presents an important consideration for test administrators and developers.		[Ward, Brodie; Thornton, Ashleigh; Lay, Brendan; Chen, Nigel; Rosenberg, Michael] Univ Western Australia, Crawley, WA, Australia; [Ward, Brodie] Univ Western Australia, Sch Human Sci Exercise & Sport Sci, M408 35 Stirling Highway, Crawley, WA 6009, Australia								12							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000484916400001	30	Article; Article		
J	Garcia-Tabar, Ibai; Rampinini, Ermanno; Gorostiaga, Esteban M.								Lactate Equivalent for Maximal Lactate Steady State Determination in Soccer								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				90	4			678	689		10.1080/02701367.2019.1643446			OCT 2 2019	2019	Purpose: The association between an overlooked classical Lactate Threshold (LT), named "Minimum Lactate Equivalent" (LEmin), with Maximal Lactate Steady State (MLSS) has been recently described with good MLSS prediction results in endurance-trained runners. This study aimed to determine the applicability of LEmin to predict MLSS in lower aerobic-conditioned individuals compared to well-established blood lactate-related thresholds (BLTs). Method: Fifteen soccer players [velocity at MLSS (MLSSV) 13.2 +/- 1.0 km center dot h(-1); coefficient of variation (CV) 7.6%] conducted a submaximal discontinuous incremental running test to determine BLTs and 3-6 constant velocity running tests to determine MLSSV. Results: LEmin did not differ from conventional LTs (p > .05) and was 24% lower than MLSS (p < .001; ES: 3.26). Among LTs, LEmin best predicted MLSSV (r = 0.83; p < .001; SEE = 0.59 km center dot h(-1)). There was no statistical difference between MLSS and estimated MLSS using LEmin prediction formula (p = .99; ES: 0.001). Mean bias and limits of agreement were 0.00 +/- 0.58 km center dot h(-1) and +/- 1.13 km center dot h(-1), respectively. LEmin best predicted MLSSV (r = 0.92; p < .001; SEE = 0.54 km center dot h(-1)) in the pooled data of soccer players and endurance-trained runners of the previous study (n = 28; MLSSV range 11.2-16.5 km center dot h(-1); CV 9.8%). Conclusion: Results support LEmin to be one of the best single predictors of MLSS. This study is the sole study providing specific operational regression equations to estimate the impractical gold standard MLSSV in soccer players by means of a BLT measured during a submaximal single-session test.		[Garcia-Tabar, Ibai; Gorostiaga, Esteban M.] Govt Navarre, Pamplona, Spain; [Garcia-Tabar, Ibai] Univ Basque Country UPV EHU, Vitoria, Spain; [Garcia-Tabar, Ibai] Univ Basque Country UPV EHU, Fac Educ & Sport, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Portal Lasarte 71, Vitoria 01007, Spain								15							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000484916700001	44	Article; Article		
J	Coutinho, Diogo; Goncalves, Bruno; Travassos, Bruno; Folgado, Hugo; Figueira, Bruno; Sampaio, Jaime								Different Marks in the Pitch Constraint Youth Players' Performances During Football Small-sided Games								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				91	1			15	23		10.1080/02701367.2019.1645938			JAN 2 2020	2020	Purpose: This study aimed to compare players' performances when manipulating the external markings of the pitch during football small-sided games. Methods: Ten under-15 players performed a 5-a-side (plus goalkeepers) under three conditions: (i) Lines, the game was played in a pitch in which the external boundaries were painted with full lines; (ii) Dashed, the game was played in a pitch in which the external boundaries were painted with dashed lines; (iii) Corners, the game was played in a pitch were the external boundaries were delimited by one marker at each pitch corner. Players' positional data was used to compute tactical and time-motion variables. Also, technical analysis was comprised using video footage. Results: Results showed similar tactical, physical and technical performances between the Lines and Dashed conditions. In contrast, the Lines condition showed small higher effects than Corners scenario in the time spent synchronized in longitudinal and lateral displacements, game pace, total distance covered, distance covered while jogging, number successful dribbles and shots on target. The Lines scenario has also revealed a lower effective playing space, distance covered at walking and running and a lower number of passes (small effects) compared to Corners. Conclusions: These results highlight that these changes in informational perception constraints modify players movement behavior. Accordingly, pitches with more visible boundaries were likely to decrease team dispersion, which may optimize team synchrony and technical performances, while decreasing the distance covered at higher speeds. Coaches may use this information to modify the types of pitch external boundaries markings, exposing the players to different environmental information.		[Coutinho, Diogo; Goncalves, Bruno; Sampaio, Jaime] Univ Tras Os Montes & Alto Douro, Vila Real, Portugal; [Coutinho, Diogo; Goncalves, Bruno; Travassos, Bruno; Folgado, Hugo; Figueira, Bruno; Sampaio, Jaime] CIDESD Res Ctr Sports Sci, Hlth Sci & Human Dev, Vila Real, Portugal; [Travassos, Bruno] Univ Beira Interior, Covilha, Portugal; [Folgado, Hugo] Univ Evora, Evora, Portugal; [Travassos, Bruno] Lithuanian Sports Univ, Kaunas, Lithuania; [Coutinho, Diogo] Univ Tras Os Montes & Alto Douro, Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev, CIDESD, Creat Lab Res Community,Dept Sports Sci Exercis, Ap 202, P-5000911 Vila Real, Portugal								35							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000484917000001	35	Article; Article		
J	Leicht, Anthony S.; Fox, Jordan; Connor, Jonathan; Sargent, Charli; Sinclair, Wade; Stanton, Robert; Scanlan, Aaron								External Activity Demands Differ Between Referees and Players During a Sub-Elite, Men's Basketball Match								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				90	4			720	725		10.1080/02701367.2019.1645268			OCT 2 2019	2019	Match activity demands of basketball players have been well reported but little exists in terms of quantifying the demands encountered by referees during match-play. Potential differences between referees and players may identify different fitness capacities and subsequent need for different training regimes. Purpose: The aims of this brief report were to: 1) document the activity demands of sub-elite basketball referees during a match; and 2) compare referee and player match activity demands. Method: Three referees and six players participating in the same sub-elite, basketball match were monitored for external activity (PlayerLoad (TM), PL) via microsensor technology. The proportion of each quarter and entire match time spent in pre-set PL bands was also examined to develop PL profiles. Differences in activity demands between referees and players were calculated using effect size (ES) analyses (+/- 95% confidence intervals). Results: Referees experienced an absolute PL of 310 +/- 28 arbitrary units (4.2 +/- 0.4 AU.min(-1)) during the match which was similar to 40% lower than that of the players (ES = 1.14; -0.45, 2.48). Referees exhibited a match PL profile dominated by the lowest PL band (similar to 91%) with the players' PL profile shifted slightly towards higher bands. Conclusion: Sub-elite basketball referees experienced activity demands substantially lower than that of players during the same match. Limited movement patterns due to recommended court positioning may have contributed to the lower PL of referees. Differences in PL between referees and players highlight a need to develop specific training regimes to focus on key fitness capacities for each match role.		[Leicht, Anthony S.; Connor, Jonathan; Sinclair, Wade] James Cook Univ, Townsville, Qld, Australia; [Fox, Jordan; Sargent, Charli; Stanton, Robert; Scanlan, Aaron] Cent Queensland Univ, Rockhampton, Qld, Australia; [Leicht, Anthony S.] James Cook Univ, Sport & Exercise Sci, Townsville, Qld 4811, Australia								18							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000484915400001	17	Article; Article		
J	Timon, Rafael; Allemano, Silvia; Camacho-Cardenosa, Marta; Camacho-Cardenosa, Alba; Martinez-Guardado, Ismael; Olcina, Guillermo								Post-Activation Potentiation on Squat Jump Following Two Different Protocols: Traditional vs. Inertial Flywheel								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				69	1			271	281		10.2478/hukin-2019-0017			SEP 2019	2019	Post-activation potentiation (PAP) has been defined as a major enhancement of muscular performance following a preload stimulus. The eccentric actions seem to cause a potentiating effect on subsequent explosive exercises. The aim of this study was to determine whether a protocol of squat exercise using an inertial flywheel could have a potentiating effect on jump performance. Sixteen physically active volunteers participated in the study (age: 21.8 +/- 2.7 years; body mass index: 23.6 +/- 3). All participants completed two different protocols on separate days: a Traditional Protocol (using a half squat with a guided barbell) and an Inertial Flywheel Protocol (using a half squat with an inertial flywheel). Both protocols were similar and consisted of 3 x 6 reps at the load that maximized power, with a 3-minute rest interval between sets. The squat jump (SJ) was measured by a contact platform at baseline, and four, eight and twelve minutes after the PAP stimulus. A two-way ANOVA with repeated measures was performed to analyze significant differences over time. There were significant increases of SJ height (p = 0.004, d = 0.665), velocity (p = 0.003, d = 0.688) and power (p = 0.004, d = 0.682) from baseline after the inertial flywheel protocol. A significant interaction effect (time x protocol) was observed, showing that the inertial flywheel protocol had a potentiating effect on the jump performance compared to the traditional protocol, more specifically at 4 and 8 minutes after the PAP stimulus. In conclusion, the inertial flywheel protocol showed a potentiating effect on the squat jump performance, thus this preconditioning activity could be useful during the warm-up before the competition.		[Timon, Rafael; Camacho-Cardenosa, Marta; Camacho-Cardenosa, Alba; Martinez-Guardado, Ismael; Olcina, Guillermo] Univ Extremadura, Fac Sport Sci, Av Univ S-N, Caceres 10003, Spain; [Allemano, Silvia] Univ Milan, Scuola Sci Motorie, Milan, Italy; [Timon, Rafael] Univ Extremadura, Fac Sport Sci, Av Univ S-N, Caceres 10003, Spain								41							Sport Sciences	WOS:000491222600026	32	Article; Article		
J	Gryko, Karol; Stastny, Petr; Kopiczko, Anna; Mikolajec, Kazimierz; Pecha, Ondrej; Perkowski, Krzysztof								Can Anthropometric Variables and Maturation Predict the Playing Position in Youth Basketball Players?								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				69	1			109	123		10.2478/hukin-2019-0005			SEP 2019	2019	Anthropometric diagnoses predict the most appropriate on-court position for a certain player and are important in the long-term planning of basketball training programs. This study provides anthropometric characteristics and body composition profiles of Polish youth national team players (U-14, U-15, U-16 and U-18). The aim of this research was to determine the somatic characteristics of basketball players regarding particular on-court positions. The sample population consisted of 109 elite basketball players, who played in national teams in four age categories: U-14, U-16, U-18 U-20. An analysis of the obtained results revealed differences between the younger (U-14, U-15 and U-16) and older groups (U-18 and U-20) in terms of length, width and circumference measurements and body mass (3.6-9.3%), as well as subcutaneous fat measured by the skinfold thickness method (14.3-33.7%). ANCOVA with maturity offset as the covariate variable showed differences in body height (p < 0.05, R-2 = 0.74) and the arm span (p < 0.05, R-2 = 0.87) between each playing position; the somatic measurements were greater for centers than for forwards and guards, and the measurements were greater for forwards than for guards. The somatic feature measurements also increased linearly with age. We can conclude that the arm span and body height are two major somatic factors that can predict center and guard playing positions for national team basketball players in all age categories from U-14 to U-20.		[Gryko, Karol; Perkowski, Krzysztof] Jozef Pilsudski Univ Phys Educ, Dept Athlet & Team Sport Games, Warsaw, Poland; [Stastny, Petr] Charles Univ Prague, Dept Sport Games, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Prague, Czech Republic; [Kopiczko, Anna] Jozef Pilsudski Univ Phys Educ, Dept Anthropol & Hlth Promot, Warsaw, Poland; [Mikolajec, Kazimierz] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ, Dept Team Sport Games, Katowice, Poland; [Mikolajec, Kazimierz] Czech Acad Sci, Prague, Czech Republic; [Pecha, Ondrej] Czech Acad Sci, Technol Ctr, Prague, Czech Republic; [Gryko, Karol] Jozef Pilsudski Univ Phys Educ Warsaw, Fac Phys Educ, Dept Athlet & Team Sport Games, Marymoncka 34, PL-00968 Warsaw, Poland								11							Sport Sciences	WOS:000491222600011	41	Article; Article		
J	Costa, Mario J.; Cruz, Lucia; Simao, Ana; Barbosa, Tiago M.								Cardiovascular and Perceived Effort in Different Head-Out Water Exercises: Effect of Limbs' Action and Resistance Equipment								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				69	1			89	97		10.2478/hukin-2018-0099			SEP 2019	2019	The aim of this study was to compare the cardiovascular and perceived effort of head-out water exercises selecting different limb strategies and using resistance equipment. Ten young women were randomly assigned to perform at 132 bpm during five minutes different head-out aquatic exercises: (i) horizontal arms abduction (Ab); (ii) horizontal arms abduction with dumbbells (AbD); (iii) frontal kick (Fk); (iv) frontal kick with leggings (FkLeg), and; (v) aquatic skiing (Ski). Cardiovascular effort was measured by monitoring the heart rate, blood pressure and double product. Perceived effort was assessed by the Borg's scale. Within-routines comparison was computed using repeated-measures ANOVA followed-up by the Bonferroni post-hoc test. Considering the percentage of the maximal heart rate, participants reached 72.88 +/- 12.90% in the FkLeg, 65.99 +/- 10.91% in the Fk, 62.62 +/- 7.20% in Ski, 57.27 +/- 11.58% in AbD and 57.12 +/- 12.09% in Ab. Comparing exercises, higher heart rates were observed in the FkLeg (140.40 bpm) than Ab (110.30 bpm) or AbD (110.00 bpm). Significant differences were found in the systolic blood pressure when compared to the Fk (120.60 mmHg) and Ab (104.50 mmHg). Double product was higher in the FkLeg (16990) showing a meaningful difference when compared to Ab (11608) or AbD (12001). The highest perceived effort was found in the FkLeg (15.80) with meaningful variations compared to Ab (11.70), the Fk (13.70) and Ski (10.40). Thus, different head-out water exercises result in different intensities. The actions by lower limbs promote a higher cardiovascular response, whereas the upper limbs actions trigger a lower exertion. Moreover, exercising the four limbs concurrently seems to be less intense than using only two limbs with an aid.		[Costa, Mario J.; Cruz, Lucia; Simao, Ana] Polytech Inst Guarda, Sport Sci Dept, Av Dr Francisco Sa Carneiro 50, P-6300559 Guarda, Portugal; [Barbosa, Tiago M.] Nanyang Technol Univ, Natl Inst Educ, Singapore, Singapore; [Barbosa, Tiago M.] Polytech Inst Braganca, Sport Sci Dept, Braganca, Portugal; [Costa, Mario J.; Barbosa, Tiago M.] CIDESD, Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev, Vila Real, Portugal; [Costa, Mario J.] Polytech Inst Guarda, Sport Sci Dept, Av Dr Francisco Sa Carneiro 50, P-6300559 Guarda, Portugal								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:000491222600009	26	Article; Article		
J	Tucher, Guilherme; de Souza Castro, Fldvio Antonio; Garrido, Nuno Domingos; Fernandes, Ricardo Jorge								Monitoring Changes Over a Training Macrocycle in Regional Age-Group Swimmers								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				69	1			213	223		10.2478/hukin-2019-0014			SEP 2019	2019	Our aim was to analyze physiological, kinematical and performance changes induced by swimming training in regional age-group athletes. Subjects (15.7 +/- 2.2 years old) performed a 4 x 50-m front-crawl test at maximal velocity (10 s rest interval) in weeks 2, 4, 9 and 12 of a 15-week macrocycle. Descriptive statistics were used and the percentage of change and smallest worthwhile change (moderate, 0.6-1.2, and large, > 1.2) were measured. Lactate concentration in the third, seventh and twelfth minute of recovery decreased significantly between weeks 2-9 (14.1, 15.7 and 17.6%) and increased between weeks 9-12 (18.2, 18.6 and 19.8%), with the HR presenting only trivial variations during the training period. Stroke length showed a large decrease in the first 50-m trial between weeks 4-9 (6.2%) and a large increase between weeks 9-12 (3.1%). The stroke rate (in all 50-m trials) increased significantly between weeks 4-9 (3-7%) and the stroke index had a moderate to large increase in the first and third 50-m trial (3.6 and 7.1%, respectively) between weeks 9-12. The overall time decreased by 1.1% between weeks 2-12, being more evident after week 4. We concluded that physiological, kinematical and performance variables were affected by the period of training in regional age-group swimmers.		[Tucher, Guilherme] Univ Fed Rio de Janeiro, Escola Educ Fis & Desportos, Av Carlos Chagas Filho 540,Sala A-225,Cidade Univ, BR-21941599 Rio De Janeiro, Brazil; [Tucher, Guilherme] GPCEA, Aquat Sports Sci Res Grp, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil; [de Souza Castro, Fldvio Antonio] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Sul, Escola Educ Fis Fisioterapia & Danca, Aquat Sports Res Grp, Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil; [Garrido, Nuno Domingos] CIDESD, Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev, Vila Real, Portugal; [Fernandes, Ricardo Jorge] Univ Porto, Fac Sports, Ctr Res Educ Innovat & Intervent Sport CIFI2D, Porto, Portugal; [Fernandes, Ricardo Jorge] Univ Porto, Porto Biomech Lab, LABIOMEP, Porto, Portugal; [Tucher, Guilherme] Univ Fed Rio de Janeiro, Escola Educ Fis & Desportos, Av Carlos Chagas Filho 540,Sala A-225,Cidade Univ, BR-21941599 Rio De Janeiro, Brazil								6							Sport Sciences	WOS:000491222600020	39	Article; Article		
J	Ozaki, Yusuke; Ueda, Takeshi; Fukuda, Tomohiro; Inai, Tatsuya; Kido, Eri; Narisako, Daiki								Regulation of Stride Length During the Approach Run in the 400-M Hurdles								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				69	1			59	67		10.2478/hukin-2019-0019			SEP 2019	2019	This research aims to clarify the stride adjustment in the approach of the 400-m hurdles, and to examine the relationship with 400-m hurdle performance. Seven male 400-m hurdlers volunteered for this study. Participants ran three times from the start to the second hurdle. The standard deviation of toe-hurdle distance and standard deviation of stride length at each step from the start to the first hurdle were calculated. The maximum value of the standard deviation of toe-hurdle distance was defined as the position at which the athlete starts stride adjustment. The relationships between each variable, 400-m hurdle personal best, and the ratio of 400-m hurdle personal best and 400-m running personal best (400 m/400-m hurdles) were examined. Results concluded that standard deviation of toe-hurdle distance gradually increased after the start, reached the maximum value in the latter half of the approach section, and then decreased until the takeoff. Standard deviation of stride length increased significantly from 4 steps before the takeoff. From these trends, it was suggested that athletes seemed to start stride adjustment from the middle stage to the latter half of the approach by sensing stride error accumulation in the middle of the approach. The strides immediately before the takeoff were markedly involved in stride adjustment. Furthermore, the stride adjustment technique to reduce maximum accumulation error of stride evaluated in the approach section was considered associated with the smooth running of the entire 400-m hurdle race.		[Ozaki, Yusuke; Ueda, Takeshi; Fukuda, Tomohiro; Inai, Tatsuya; Kido, Eri; Narisako, Daiki] Hiroshima Univ, Grad Sch Educ, Higashihiroshima, Japan; [Ozaki, Yusuke] 1-1-1 Kagamiyama, Higashihiroshima, Hiroshima 7398524, Japan								14							Sport Sciences	WOS:000491222600006	14	Article; Article		
J	Schneider, Sven; Sauer, Johannes; Berrsche, Gregor; Schmitt, Holger								No Pain, No Gain? Prevalence, Location, Context, and Coping Strategies with Regard to Pain Among Young German Elite Basketball Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				69	1			179	189		10.2478/HUKIN-2018-0098			SEP 2019	2019	Pain among young athletes requires special attention given that symptoms occur during the ongoing development of the conditional, and in particular, the motor capacities, and while the musculoskeletal system is in a continuous process of growth. The purpose of this study was to evaluate prevalence, location, context, and coping strategies regarding pain among young athletes. We chose survey data of young elite athletes from the highest level national basketball leagues in Germany, as this meant that health implications may be observed earlier and in a more pronounced manner. The German 'Adolescents' and Children's Health in Elite Basketball study' (ACHE study), a quantitative survey, was conducted between April and June 2016. Analyses were based on elite basketball players between 13 and 19 years of age from 46 German teams (n = 182). Constant, and to some extent severe pain, was part of daily life of young elite basketball players: eight out of ten players in the highest German leagues suffered from pain at the time of the survey. Knee, leg, and back pain occurred most frequently. For most players, occasional or frequent consumption of analgesics was the norm, in some cases these were also taken "prophylactically". The consumption of multiple pharmaceutical substances, especially of cyclooxygenase inhibitors such as ibuprofen and diclofenac, is widespread among adolescent elite basketball players. Physicians involved in treating these athletes should address pain and its management preemptively. Coaches, sporting organizations and parents should be involved in this process from an early stage.		[Schneider, Sven] Heidelberg Univ, Med Fac Mannheim, Mannheim Inst Publ Hlth Social & Prevent Med MIPH, Mannheim, Germany; [Sauer, Johannes; Schmitt, Holger] ATOS Clin Heidelberg, German Joint Ctr Heidelberg, Heidelberg, Germany; [Berrsche, Gregor] Heidelberg Univ Hosp, Sect Sports Orthoped & Sports Traumatol, Ctr Orthoped Trauma Surg & Paraplegiol, Heidelberg, Germany; [Schneider, Sven] Heidelberg Univ, Med Fac Mannheim, Mannheim Inst Publ Hlth Social & Prevent Med, Ludolf Krehl Str 7-11, D-68167 Mannheim, Germany								6							Sport Sciences	WOS:000491222600017	27	Article; Article		
J	Kubayi, Alliance; Toriola, Abel								Trends of Goal Scoring Patterns in Soccer: A Retrospective Analysis of Five Successive FIFA World Cup Tournaments								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				69	1			231	238		10.2478/hukin-2019-0015			SEP 2019	2019	This study analysed the 795 goals scored during a total of 320 matches played in five successive FIFA World Cup tournaments (1998-2014). Data were obtained through YouTube videos and analysed by means of Longomatch software. The variables analysed included the number of goals scored per half (45-min period), per 15-min period, and per 30-min period of extra time, goal scoring zones, goals scored by substitutes, types of goals scored, and goals scored according to the playing position. With regard to 15-min period analysis, most goals were scored between the 76th and 90th minutes (24.7%) of the game in all five World Cup competitions. Chi-square analyses showed no significant (p > 0.05) differences in the frequency of goal scoring patterns per 45-min and 15-min periods in the five World Cup tournaments. Most goals were scored from inside the goal (23.8%) and penalty (14.6%) areas. The greatest number of goals was scored by strikers (54.2%), followed by midfielders (33.3%) and defenders (2.3%). These findings provide practical implications for improving goal-scoring performance in soccer.		[Kubayi, Alliance; Toriola, Abel] Tshwane Univ Technol, Dept Sport Rehabil & Dent Sci, ZA-0001 Pretoria, South Africa; [Kubayi, Alliance] Tshwane Univ Technol, Dept Sport Rehabil & Dent Sci, ZA-0001 Pretoria, South Africa								20							Sport Sciences	WOS:000491222600022	18	Article; Article		
J	Amatria, Mario; Maneiro, Ruben; Teresa Anguera, M.								Analysis of Successful Offensive Play Patterns by the Spanish Soccer Team								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				69	1			191	200		10.2478/hukin-2019-0011			SEP 2019	2019	Victory is the ultimate aim in soccer and therefore when a team wins an elite European or world championship, attempts will invariably be made to emulate the winning team's style of play. In this study, we performed an in-depth analysis of play by the Spanish soccer team during the 2012 UEFA European Championship, where it was crowned champion. Using observational methodology and T-pattern analysis, we identified hidden patterns of play that ended in a goal for the Spanish team. A generalizability coefficient (e2) of 0.986 demonstrated that the offensive patterns detected are robust and highly generalizable. These patterns were formed by technical actions consisting of ball control and pass, with alternations between short and long passes, in the central area of the rival pitch, with use of both wings to achieve width of play and prioritization of width over depth of play. We also found patterns showing that goals and shots at goal were made on a ball delivered from the opposite direction to the shot and were not preceded by a technical action.		[Amatria, Mario; Maneiro, Ruben] Pontifical Univ Salamanca, Dept Phys Act Sci & Sports, Edificio Luis Vives,C Henry Collet 52-70Ulloa S-N, Salamanca 37007, Spain; [Teresa Anguera, M.] Univ Barcelona, Inst Neurosci, Fac Psychol, Barcelona, Spain; [Amatria, Mario] Pontifical Univ Salamanca, Dept Phys Act Sci & Sports, Edificio Luis Vives,C Henry Collet 52-70Ulloa S-N, Salamanca 37007, Spain								20							Sport Sciences	WOS:000491222600018	32	Article; Article		
J	Mitschke, Christian; Karger, Katrin; Milani, Thomas L.								Differences in Mechanical Midsole Characteristics of Running Shoes Do Not Influence Physiological Variables in Aerobic and Anaerobic Running								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				69	1			29	38		10.2478/hukin-2019-0008			SEP 2019	2019	The purpose of this study was to determine the influence of footwear stiffness and energy loss on oxygen uptake and heart rate in athletes running under aerobic and anaerobic conditions. Four footwear conditions with identical outsoles, insoles, upper materials, but different mechanical properties regarding polyurethane midsole materials were investigated. Respective midsole material characteristics were selected to represent a wide range of running shoes. The test procedure for eighteen well-trained male runners was divided into three treadmill testing sessions: an incremental ramp protocol to estimate the individual ventilatory threshold (day 1), a test with 6-minute stages in each shoe at 70% (aerobic, day 2) and 102% (anaerobic, day 3) of the participant's ventilatory threshold. For oxygen uptake and the heart rate, no significant differences between footwear conditions were found for either running condition. Furthermore, no significant relationships between physiological variables and mechanical midsole characteristics were found. The wide range of significant stiffness differences in the rearfoot (52.7 N/mm) and forefoot areas (50.7 N/mm), as well as significant differences of the shoe midsole material energy loss in the rearfoot (18.8%) and forefoot areas (10.7%) were too low to influence physiological variables significantly when running below and slightly above the ventilatory threshold. It seems that shoe mass and shoe comfort can influence physiological variables more than the mechanical midsole characteristics of stiffness and energy loss. These results may have practical implications for shoe manufacturers, coaches, and athletes, alike.		[Mitschke, Christian; Karger, Katrin; Milani, Thomas L.] Tech Univ Chemnitz, Inst Human Movement Sci & Hlth, Dept Human Locomot, Chemnitz, Saxony, Germany; [Mitschke, Christian] Tech Univ Chemnitz, Fac Behav & Social Sci, Inst Human Movement Sci & Hlth, Human Locomot, D-09107 Chemnitz, Germany								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:000491222600003	27	Article; Article		
J	Reche-Soto, Pedro; Cardona-Nieto, Donaldo; Diaz-Suarez, Arturo; Bastida-Castillo, Alejandro; Gomez-Carmona, Carlos; Garcia-Rubio, Javier; Pino-Ortega, Jose								Player Load and Metabolic Power Dynamics as Load Quantifiers in Soccer								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				69	1			259	269		10.2478/hukin-2018-0072			SEP 2019	2019	There has recently been an increase in quantification and objective analysis of soccer performance due to improvements in technology using load indexes such as Player Load (PL) and Metabolic Power (MP). The objectives of this study were: (1) to describe the performance of PL and MP in competition according to the specific role, match-tomatch variation, periods of play, game location and match status according to game periods, and (2) to analyze the relationship between both indexes. Twenty-one national-level soccer players were distributed in the following specific positional roles: external defenders (ED) (n = 4), central defenders (CD) (n = 4), midfielders (M) (n = 5), external midfielders (EM) (n = 4) and attackers (A) (n = 4). A total of 12 matches played by a Spanish Third Division team during the 2016/2017 season were analyzed. WIMU PRO (TM) inertial devices (RealTrack System, Almeria, Spain) were used for recording the data. The main results were: (1) a performance reduction in both variables over the course of match time, (2) significant differences in both variables based on the specific position, (3) differences in physical demands during the season matches, (4) winning during a game period and the condition of being the visitor team provoked higher demands, and (5) a high correlation between both variables in soccer. In conclusion, different contextual variables influence the external load demands; both indexes are related so they could be used for external load quantification, and it is necessary to analyze physical demands of the competition for a specific and individualized load design in training sessions.		[Reche-Soto, Pedro; Diaz-Suarez, Arturo; Bastida-Castillo, Alejandro; Pino-Ortega, Jose] Univ Murcia, Dept Phys Act & Sport, Int Campus Mare Nostrum, Murcia, Spain; [Cardona-Nieto, Donaldo] Colombian Polytech Univ Jaime Isaza Cadavid, Dept Phys Educ Recreat & Sports, Medellin, Colombia; [Gomez-Carmona, Carlos; Garcia-Rubio, Javier] Univ Extremadura, Sport Sci Fac, Dept Didact Plast Mus & Body Express, Optimizat Training & Sport Performance Res Grp GO, Caceres, Spain; [Reche-Soto, Pedro] Univ Murcia, Fac Ciencias Actividad Fis & Deporte, Campus San Javier,C Argentina 19, Murcia 30720, Spain								63							Sport Sciences	WOS:000491222600025	48	Article; Article		
J	Caldwell, Sarah L.; Bilodeau, Reagan L. S.; Cox, Megan J.; Behm, David G.								Cross Education Training Effects are Evident with Twice Daily, Self-Administered Band Stretch Training								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				18	3			544	551					SEP 2019	2019	Currently there are recommendations for stretching type, repetitions and duration within a training session to improve flexibility. It is, however, unclear whether multiple daily stretch training sessions provide greater flexibility than single daily sessions. The objective was to investigate the effectiveness of single (1xday) versus twice daily (2xday) unilateral stretch training sessions on hip flexion range of motion (ROM), agonist and antagonist force and jump performance of the stretched and contralateral, non-stretched legs. Groups included a control, 1xday and 2xday stretch training groups. Static stretching (SS) involved self-administered (stretch band), unilateral, hamstrings and quadriceps stretching for 2-weeks. Pre- and post-testing involved hip flexion ROM, knee extension and flexion maximal voluntary isometric contraction (MVIC) forces and unilateral drop jumps (DJ). The 2xday group showed a 12.8% (p = 0.08) greater active ROM versus Control. The 1xday group showed a 7.5% (p=0.1) ballistic ROM increase with no significant changes with the 2xday and Control groups. The stretched leg experienced a 5.01% (p = 0.1) hip flexion ballistic ROM increase contrasting with a 2.3% increase for the contralateral leg. Twice daily training provided 7.1% (p = 0.07) and 6.6% (p = 0.01) quadriceps MVC force increases of the stretched trained and contralateral legs respectively. Contralateral DJ height improved 22.6% (p = 0.002) with 2xday training In conclusion, 1xday and 2xday stretch training tended to improved ballistic and active ROM respectively, whereas 2xday training improved MVIC force and DJ height. The findings may apply to fitness enthusiasts and rehabilitation as unilateral stretching may retain performance and active ROM of the stretched and contralateral limbs.		[Caldwell, Sarah L.; Bilodeau, Reagan L. S.; Cox, Megan J.; Behm, David G.] Mem Univ Newfoundland, Sch Human Kinet & Recreat, St John, NF A1C 5S7, Canada; [Behm, David G.] Mem Univ Newfoundland, Sch Human Kinet & Recreat, St John, NF A1C 5S7, Canada								17							Sport Sciences	WOS:000478793900019	37	Article; Article		
J	Pollock, Scott; Gaoua, Nadia; Johnston, Michael J.; Cooke, Karl; Girard, Olivier; Mileva, Katya N.								Training Regimes and Recovery Monitoring Practices of Elite British Swimmers								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				18	3			577	585					SEP 2019	2019	Consistent prescriptions for event-specific training of swimmers are lacking, which points to likely differences in training practices and a potential gap between practice and scientific knowledge. This study aimed to analyze the distance-specific training load of elite swimmers, derive a consistent training sessions' description and reflect on the current recommendations for training and recovery. The individual training regimes of 18 elite British swimmers were documented by surveying four swim and two strength and conditioning (S&C) coaches. The annual and weekly training load and content were compared between swimmers competing in sprint, middle and long-distance events. Thematic analysis of the surveys was conducted to identify key codes and general dimensions and to define a unified classification of the swimming and S&C training sessions. Weekly training loads and content of the swim (eta(2) - effect size; p = 0.016, eta(2) = 0.423) and S&C (p = 0.028, eta(2) = 0.38) sessions significantly differed between the groups. Long-distance swimmers swam significantly longer distances (mean +/- SD; 58.1 +/- 10.2 km vs. 43.2 +/- 5.3 km; p = 0.018) weekly but completed similar number of S&C sessions compared to sprinters. The annual swimming load distribution of middle-distance specialists did not differ from that of long-distance swimmers but consisted of more S&C sessions per week (4.7 +/- 0.5 vs. 2.3 +/- 2.3; p = 0.04). Sprinters and middle-distance swimmers swam similar distances per week and completed similar number of S&C sessions but with different proportional content. Whereas all coaches reported monitoring fatigue, only 51% indicated implementing individualized recovery protocols. We propose a consistent terminology for the description of training sessions in elite swimming to facilitate good practice exchanges. While the training prescription of elite British swimmers conforms to the scientific training principles, recommendations for recovery protocols to reduce the risk of injury and overtraining are warranted.		[Pollock, Scott; Gaoua, Nadia; Mileva, Katya N.] London South Bank Univ, Sport & Exercise Sci Res Ctr, Sch Appl Sci, London, England; [Johnston, Michael J.] Swansea Univ, Sch Engn, A SIEM, Swansea, W Glam, Wales; [Cooke, Karl] Sport Pk Loughborough Univ, British Swimming, Loughborough, Leics, England; [Girard, Olivier] Murdoch Univ, Murdoch Appl Sports Sci Mass Lab, Perth, WA, Australia; [Pollock, Scott] London South Bank Univ, Sport & Exercise Sci Res Ctr, Sch Appl Sci, London, England								53							Sport Sciences	WOS:000478793900023	30	Article; Article		
J	Park, Hun-Young; Park, Wonil; Lim, Kiwon								Living High-Training Low for 21 Days Enhances Exercise Economy, Hemodynamic Function, and Exercise Performance of Competitive Runners								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				18	3			427	437					SEP 2019	2019	Living high-training low (LHTL) is performed by competitive athletes expecting to improve their performance in competitions at sea level. However, the beneficial effects of LHTL remain controversial. We sought to investigate whether 21 days of LHTL performed at a 3,000 m simulated altitude (fraction of inspired oxygen [FIO2]=14.5%) and at sea level can improve hematological parameters, exercise economy and metabolism, hemodynamic function, and exercise performance compared with living low-training low (LLTL) among competitive athletes. All participants (age = 23.5 +/- 2.1 years, maximal oxygen consumption [VO(2)max] = 55.6 +/- 2.5 mL.kg(-1).min(-1), 3,000 m time trial performance=583.7 +/- 22.9 seconds) were randomly assigned to undergo LHTL (n = 12) or LLTL (n = 12) and evaluated before and after the 21 days of intervention. During the 21-day intervention period, the weekly routine for all athletes included 6-day training and 1-day rest. The daily training programs consisted of >4 hours of various exercise programs (i.e., jogging, high-speed running, interval running, and 3,000 m or 5,000-m time trial). The LHTL group resided in a simulated environmental chamber (FIO2 = 14.5%) for >12 hours per day and the LLTL group at sea level under comfortable conditions. The hematological parameters showed no significant interaction. However, LHTL yielded more improved exercise economy, metabolic parameters (oxygen consumption=-152.7 vs 32.4 mL.kg(-1) .30min(-1), eta(2)= 0.457, p = 0.000; tissue oxygenation index=6.18 vs .66%, eta(2) = 0.250, p = 0.013), and hemodynamic function (heart rate = -234.5 vs -49.7 beats.30min(-1), eta(2)= 0.172, p = 0.044; stroke volume = 136.4 vs 120.5 mL/30 min,eta(2)= 0.191, p = 0.033) during 30 minutes of submaximal cycle ergometer exercise corresponding to 80% maximal heart rate before training than did LLTL. Regarding exercise performance, LHTL also yielded more improved VO(2)max (5.40 vs 2.35 mL. kg(-1).min(-1), eta(2) = 0.527, p = 0.000) and 3,000 m time trial performance (-34.0 vs -19.5 seconds, eta(2) = 0.527, p = 0.000) than did LLTL. These results indicate that compared with LLTL, LHTL can have favorable effects on exercise performance by improving exercise economy and hemodynamic function in competitive runners.		[Park, Hun-Young; Lim, Kiwon] Konkuk Univ, Phys Act & Performance Inst, Seoul, South Korea; [Park, Wonil] Korea Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Seoul, South Korea; [Lim, Kiwon] Konkuk Univ, Dept Phys Educ, 120 Neungdong Ro, Seoul 143701, South Korea; [Lim, Kiwon] Konkuk Univ, Dept Phys Educ, 120 Neungdong Ro, Seoul 143701, South Korea								26							Sport Sciences	WOS:000478793900006	43	Article; Article		
J	Brisbine, Brooke R.; Steele, Julie R.; Phillips, Elissa J.; McGhee, Deirdre E.								The Occurrence, Causes and Perceived Performance Effects of Breast Injuries in Elite Female Athletes								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				18	3			569	576					SEP 2019	2019	Female breasts are vulnerable to direct blows or frictional injuries during sport; however, little research has investigated breast injuries experienced by female athletes. This study aimed to investigate the occurrence, causes and perceived performance effects of breast injuries in elite female athletes across a wide range of sports. A custom-designed survey was distributed to female athletes aged over 18 years who were competing nationally or internationally in their chosen sport. The survey included questions about breast injuries sustained during training and competition and any perceived performance effects of these injuries. 504 elite female athletes from 46 different sports completed the survey. 36% of participants (n = 182) reported experiencing breast injuries and 21% (n = 37) perceived that their breast injury negatively affected their performance. Contact breast injuries were reported by significantly more athletes involved in contact or combat sports and by athletes with larger breasts or a higher body mass index. Frictional breast injuries were reported by significantly more older athletes or those with larger breasts. Less than 10% of participants who experienced breast injuries reported their injury to a coach or medical professional and only half used any prevention strategies. Athletes, coaches and medical professionals associated with women's sport need to be made aware of the occurrence and potential negative effects of breast injuries. It is critical to normalise conversations around breast health so that athletes can be encouraged to report and, when necessary, receive treatment for breast injuries. Further research is also required to better understand factors that affect breast injuries in sport in order to develop evidence-based breast injury prevention strategies.		[Brisbine, Brooke R.; Steele, Julie R.; McGhee, Deirdre E.] Univ Wollongong, Biomech Res Lab, Wollongong, NSW, Australia; [Brisbine, Brooke R.] Australian Inst Sport, Appl Technol & Innovat, Canberra, ACT, Australia; [Phillips, Elissa J.] Australian Inst Sport, Performance Networks & Partnerships, Canberra, ACT, Australia; [Brisbine, Brooke R.; Steele, Julie R.; McGhee, Deirdre E.] Univ Wollongong, Fac Sci Med & Hlth, Sch Med, Biomech Res Lab, Northfields Ave, Wollongong, NSW 2522, Australia; [Brisbine, Brooke R.] Univ Wollongong, Fac Sci Med & Hlth, Sch Med, Biomech Res Lab, Northfields Ave, Wollongong, NSW 2522, Australia								38							Sport Sciences	WOS:000478793900022	45	Article; Article		
J	Cholewa, Jason M.; Atalag, Ozan; Zinchenko, Anastasia; Johnson, Kelly; Henselmans, Menno								Anthropometrical Determinants of Deadlift Variant Performance								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				18	3			448	453					SEP 2019	2019	The barbell deadlift is a popular exercise and one of the three lifts in competitive powerlifting. While muscle activation has been tested between the sumo (SDL) and conventional deadlift (CDL), the relationships between anthropometrics and deadlift performance in the two styles is not yet known. The purpose of this study was to investigate the relationships between anthropometrics and SDL versus CDL performance (SDL:CDL strength ratio). Forty-seven (n = 28 male, n = 19 female) deadlift naive subjects participated in this study. Anthropometric measurements were arm and hand length, wrist and ankle girth, seated height, thigh length, and lower leg length. Deadlift instructions for the two styles were provided on day 1 and 2. On day 3 and 4, deadlift 1RM was tested for the SDL or CDL in random order, and then deadlift repetitions to volitional fatigue with 60% of 1RM were measured. No significant differences between CDL 1RM and SDL 1RM were found. The only significant correlation found between the anthropometric predictors and the SDL:CDL strength ratio was an inverse relationship with the sitting height to total height ratio (r = 0.297, p = 0.043). Total repetitions to volitional fatigue was higher in females compared to males for both lifts (p = 0.041). Our findings suggest that the sumo deadlift may be slightly mechanically advantageous for deadlift naive individuals with longer torsos, while the conventional deadlift may be better suited for those with shorter torsos.		[Cholewa, Jason M.; Johnson, Kelly] Coastal Carolina Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Conway, SC 29528 USA; [Atalag, Ozan] Univ Hawaii, Kinesiol & Exercise Sci Dept, Hilo, HI 96720 USA; [Zinchenko, Anastasia; Henselmans, Menno] Int Sci Res Fdn Fitness & Nutr, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Cholewa, Jason M.] Coastal Carolina Univ, Coll Sci, Dept Kinesiol, POB 261954, Conway, SC 29528 USA								15							Sport Sciences	WOS:000478793900008	15	Article; Article		
J	Medic, Nikola; Muessener, Manuel; Lobinger, Babett H.; Young, Bradley W.								Constituent Year Effect in Masters Sports: An Empirical View on the Historical Development in US Masters Swimming								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				18	3			505	512					SEP 2019	2019	A participation-related constituent year effect, has been found to exist in masters sports in that relatively younger masters athletes (i.e., those in the first or second year of a 5-year age category) participate in competitions significantly more often than relatively older masters athletes (i.e., those in the fourth or fifth year of a 5-year age category). The main purpose of this study was to examine if the participation-related constituent year effect in US masters swimming always existed or if it has developed over time at different historical time periods. Using archived data, participation in the US Masters national short course swimming championships at each of the historical time periods in years 1972, 1982, 1992, 2002, 2012 and 2016 were examined as a function of an individual's constituent year within any 5-year age category and across gender and age. The results indicated the existence of a participation-related constituent year effect for each of the six time periods. In particular, a participation-related constituent year effect seemed to have existed from the inception of organized masters swimming competitions in the US but has developed more strongly over the years especially for males and older-aged masters swimmers. Generally, the tendency to participate at National swimming competitions during the first year of an age category was significantly more pronounced, whereas the tendency of participating during the fifth year of an age category was lower. Findings suggest that the 5-year age categories may not provide an equal competitive opportunity especially for relatively older athletes as for those who are relatively younger, but may encourage more strategic periodized training and participation.		[Medic, Nikola; Muessener, Manuel] Edith Cowan Univ, Ctr Exercise & Sports Sci Res, Joondalup, Australia; [Muessener, Manuel; Lobinger, Babett H.] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Psychol, Cologne, Germany; [Young, Bradley W.] Univ Ottawa, Sch Human Kinet, Ottawa, ON, Canada; [Medic, Nikola] Edith Cowan Univ, Ctr Exercise & Sports Sci Res, Joondalup, Australia								8							Sport Sciences	WOS:000478793900015	33	Article; Article		
J	Pluhar, Emily; McCracken, Caitlin; Griffith, Kelsey L.; Christino, Melissa A.; Sugimoto, Dai; Meehan, William P., III								Team Sport Athletes May Be Less Likely To Suffer Anxiety or Depression than Individual Sport Athletes								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				18	3			490	496					SEP 2019	2019	The objective of the study was to determine whether 1) the proportion of athletes with mental health diagnoses and 2) athlete motivations for playing differ between team sports and individual sports. We conducted a cross-sectional study of child and adolescent athletes assessed at a sports injury prevention center. We compared self-reported anxiety, depression, and reasons for participating in sports between athletes in individual sports (e.g. gymnastics, running, diving) and team sports (e.g. soccer, football, hockey). In addition, we categorized motivation for participating in sports as 1) for fun, with associated benefits of participation including, motives such as making friends and being part of a team or 2) for goal-oriented reasons with associated benefits of participation including motives such as obtaining scholarship or controlling weight. At the time of this analysis, 756 athletes between the ages of 6 and 18 years had undergone a sports injury prevention evaluation. Most athletes were White (85%) and there was a slight female predominance (56%). Of the total population, 8% reported suffering from anxiety or depression. A higher proportion of individual sport athletes reported anxiety or depression than team sport athletes (13% vs. 7%, p < 0.01). Individual sport athletes were more likely than athletes in team sports to play their sports for goal-oriented reasons, as opposed to for fun (30% vs. 21%, p < 0.05). Individual sport athletes are more likely to report anxiety and depression than team sport athletes. The mental health benefits of participation in organized sports may vary between individual sport athletes and those playing team sports.		[Pluhar, Emily; Meehan, William P., III] Boston Childrens Hosp, Div Adolescent Med, 333 Longwood Ave, Boston, MA 02115 USA; [Pluhar, Emily; Meehan, William P., III] Boston Childrens Hosp, Young Adult Med, Boston, MA 02115 USA; [Pluhar, Emily; Meehan, William P., III] Boston Childrens Hosp, Div Sports Med, Boston, MA 02115 USA; [Pluhar, Emily; Meehan, William P., III] Harvard Med Sch, Boston, MA 02115 USA; [McCracken, Caitlin] Oregon State Univ, Oregon Hlth Sci Univ, Coll Pharm, Corvallis, OR 97331 USA; [Griffith, Kelsey L.; Christino, Melissa A.; Sugimoto, Dai; Meehan, William P., III] Boston Childrens Hosp, Micheli Ctr Sports Injury Prevent, Boston, MA 02115 USA; [Griffith, Kelsey L.; Christino, Melissa A.; Sugimoto, Dai; Meehan, William P., III] Boston Childrens Hosp, Dept Orthoped, Div Sports Med, Boston, MA 02115 USA; [Pluhar, Emily] Boston Childrens Hosp, Div Adolescent Med, 333 Longwood Ave, Boston, MA 02115 USA								266							Sport Sciences	WOS:000478793900013	30	Article; Article		
J	Hartland, Michael C.; Davison, Kade; Nelson, Maximillian J.; Buckley, Jonathan D.; Parfitt, Gaynor; Fuller, Joel T.								A Case Study of Exercise Adherence during Stereotactic Ablative Radiotherapy Treatment in a Previously Active Male with Metastatic Renal Cell Carcinoma								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				18	3			462	470					SEP 2019	2019	Stereotactic Ablative Radiotherapy (SABR) is increasingly replacing thoracotomy for resection of lung cancers and oligometa-static lung lesions but it is not known whether exercise can be maintained during SABR, the major side-effect of which is fatigue. This case study describes a 57-year-old male who exercised regularly (above American College of Sports Medicine minimum weekly exercise guidelines) and continued to exercise during SABR for a renal cell metastasis in his left lung. His exercise program included 5x60-minute moderate intensity aerobic exercise sessions and 3x45-minute resistance exercise sessions per week for 12 weeks post-treatment. Cardiorespiratory fitness and strength, as well as self-reported fatigue, depression, anxiety, physical wellbeing and sleep quality were assessed at baseline and fortnightly. Exercise adherence was 98% and no adverse events occurred. Fatigue was elevated from Weeks 2-8, which adversely impacted exercise intensity perception. Minimal changes were observed in cardiorespiratory fitness, depression, anxiety and sleep quality, but strength decreased, and physical wellbeing was improved above baseline levels. This is the first reported clinical case of exercise during SABR for a lung carcinoma. The data suggest that exercise may be feasible for patients undergoing SABR and may improve physical wellbeing. Larger controlled studies are needed to confirm these findings.		[Hartland, Michael C.; Davison, Kade; Nelson, Maximillian J.; Buckley, Jonathan D.; Parfitt, Gaynor] Univ South Australia, Sch Hlth Sci, Sansom Inst Hlth Res, ARENA, Adelaide, SA, Australia; [Fuller, Joel T.] Macquarie Univ, Fac Med & Hlth Sci, 75 Talavera Rd, Macquarie Pk, NSW 2109, Australia; [Fuller, Joel T.] Macquarie Univ, Fac Med & Hlth Sci, 75 Talavera Rd, Macquarie Pk, NSW 2109, Australia								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:000478793900010	48	Article; Article		
J	Menz, Verena; Marterer, Natalie; Amin, Sachin B.; Faulhaber, Martin; Hansen, Alexander B.; Lawley, Justin S.								Functional Vs. Running Low-Volume High-Intensity Interval Training: Effects on VO<sub>2</sub>max and Muscular Endurance								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				18	3			497	504					SEP 2019	2019	The purpose of the study was to assess if high-intensity interval training (HIIT) using functional exercises is as effective as traditional running HIIT in improving maximum oxygen uptake (VO(2)max) and muscular endurance. Fifteen healthy, moderately trained female (n = 11) and male (n= 4) participants (age 25.6 +/- 2.6 years) were assigned to either running HIIT(HIIT-R; n = 8, 6 females, 2 males) or functional HIIT (HIIT-F; n = 7, 5 females, 2 males). Over a four-week period, both groups performed 14 exercise sessions of either HIIT-R or, HIIT-F consisting of 3-4 sets of low-volume HIIT (8x 20 s, 10 s rest; set rest: 5 min). Training heart rate (HR) data were collected throughout all training sessions. Mean and peak HR during the training sessions were significantly different (p = 0.018 and p = 0.022, respectively) between training groups, with HIIT-F eliciting lower HR responses than the HIIT-R. However, despite these differences in exercise HR, VO(2)max improved similarly (similar to 13% for the HIIT-R versus similar to 11% for the HIIT-F, p=0.300). Muscular endurance (burpees and toes to bar) significantly improved (p =0.004 and p = 0.001, respectively) independent of training modality. These findings suggest that classic running HIIT and functional HIIT both improve VO(2)max and affect muscular endurance to the same extent despite a lower cardiovascular strain in the functional protocol.		[Menz, Verena; Marterer, Natalie; Amin, Sachin B.; Faulhaber, Martin; Hansen, Alexander B.; Lawley, Justin S.] Univ Innsbruck, Dept Sport Sci, Furstenweg 185, A-6020 Innsbruck, Austria; [Menz, Verena] Univ Innsbruck, Dept Sport Sci, Furstenweg 185, A-6020 Innsbruck, Austria								69							Sport Sciences	WOS:000478793900014	26	Article; Article		
J	Peeters, Alexis; Carling, Christopher; Piscione, Julien; Lacome, Mathieu								In-Match Physical Performance Fluctuations in International Rugby Sevens Competition								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				18	3			419	426					SEP 2019	2019	It is widely recognised that the physical demands in rugby sevens are high especially in comparison to the 15-aside version. The aim of this study was to assess fluctuations in physical performance (miming and contact loads) in international rugby sevens competition. Altogether, 32 matches played by an international team in the HSBC World Sevens Series were analyzed (63 match-observations). Players wore a validated GPS device (SensorEverywhere, France) sampling at 16Hz while an operator coded every contact action (tackles, collisions, mauls, scrums) using video analysis software (SportsCode, USA). Running load was assessed using total distance travelled (m), individually determined high-speed distance (covered at velocities > maximal aerobic speed, m) and very-high speed distance (covered at velocities > 85% maximal sprinting speed, m). The frequency of accelerations (actions > 2.5 m.s(-2)) and high-intensity actions (HIA, sum of high-velocity runs, accelerations and contact-related actions, n) were also calculated A magnitude-based inferential approach to statistics was adopted and effect sizes quantified. Findings showed: 1) a small decrease in high-speed distance and number of accelerations performed during the second- versus the first-half of play suggesting a decline in running performance. (2) a moderately higher total distance and high-speed distance covered during the first and final 1-min period compared to the average for other 1-min periods, suggesting a specific reverse 'J-shape' pacing profile 3) a most likely decrease in total distance, high-speed running, and to a lesser extent the number of accelerations declined following the peak 1-min period of the game. These findings provide pertinent information on changes in running performance over the course of international sevens and have implications for physical conditioning strategies.		[Peeters, Alexis; Carling, Christopher; Piscione, Julien] Federat Francaise Rugby, Performance Dept, Marcoussis, France; [Carling, Christopher] Univ Cent Lancashire, Inst Coaching & Performance, Preston, Lancs, England; [Lacome, Mathieu] Paris St Germain FC, Performance Dept, St Germain En Laye, France; [Carling, Christopher] Univ Cent Lancashire, Inst Coaching & Performance, Preston, Lancs, England								21							Sport Sciences	WOS:000478793900005	35	Article; Article		
J	Zhou, Jiping; Liu, Chunlong; Zhang, Zhijie								Non-uniform Stiffness within Gastrocnemius-Achilles tendon Complex Observed after Static Stretching								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				18	3			454	461					SEP 2019	2019	Higher stiffness of the Achilles tendon (AT) and gastrocnemius have been found to be risk factors associated with Achilles tendinitis. Static stretching (SS) is one intervention that has been investigated to improve the flexibility and therefore reduce injury risk. Previous studies have investigated the acute effect of SS on one region for AT and gastrocnemius morphology and stiffness; however, there is a lack of knowledge about the effect of SS on other regions of the AT and gastrocnemius (e.g., proximal vs. distal, within gastrocnemius). The aims of the present study were: (1) to investigate the acute effects of SS on the shear modulus of the medial gastrocnemius muscles (MG) and lateral gastrocnemius muscles (LG) and AT for different regions; (2) to examine the differences in range of motion (ROM) before and after SS; and (3) to investigate the change of thickness of AT and fascicle length of MG and LG before and after SS. The stiffness of AT and the gastrocnemius, fascicle length of the muscles, thickness of the AT, and maximal ankle joint dorsiflexion angle were measured in thirty healthy subjects (15 males, 15 females) before(pre) and immediately after (post) 5-minute SS. Stretching effects are not homogeneous among different regions. After SS administration, the proximal, middle, and distal regions of MG stiffness decreased by 34.12%, 22.45%, and 25.27%, respectively (p = 0.000), and LG stiffness decreased by 37.71%, 30.47%, and 22.13%, respectively (p = 0.000), whereas AT stiffness increased by 25.73%, 17.01%, and 19.53%, respectively (p= 0.000). ROM of ankle joint increased by 8.02% (p=0.00). Nevertheless, there were no changes in the thickness of AT and fascicle length of the gastrocnemius. These results suggest that non-uniform behaviour is consistently present within the gastrocnemius and AT, and the gastrocnemius heterogeneity is reduced after SS. The stretching maneuver could be effective to increase the flexibility.		[Zhou, Jiping; Liu, Chunlong] Guangzhou Univ Chinese Med, Clin Med Coll Acupuncture Moxibust & Rehabil, Guangzhou, Guangdong, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Zhijie] Luoyang Orthoped Hosp Henan Prov, Luoyang, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Zhijie] 82 Qiming South Rd, Luoyang, Henan, Peoples R China								29							Sport Sciences	WOS:000478793900009	37	Article; Article		
J	Tong, Tomas K.; Baker, Julien S.; Zhang, Haifeng; Kong, Zhaowei; Nie, Jinlei								Effects of Specific Core Re-Warm-Ups on Core Function, Leg Perfusion and Second-Half Team Sport-Specific Sprint Performance: A Randomized Crossover Study								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				18	3			479	489					SEP 2019	2019	This study examined the effects of a specific core exercise program, as a re-warm-up regime during the half-time period, on inspiratory (IM) and core (CM) muscle functions, leg perfusion and the team sport-specific sprint performance in the initial stage of the second half of a simulated exercise task. Nine team-sports players performed a simulated team-sport intermittent exercise protocol (IEP) in two phases, on a non-motorized treadmill, inter-spersed by a 15-min half-time break. During the half-time period subsequent to the 25-min Phase-1 IEP, the players either rested passively or performed 4-min CM exercise concomitant with inspiratory loaded breathing following 11-min passive recovery. The changes in IM and CM functions, leg perfusion and repeated-sprint ability mediated by the two recovery modes were compared. Following Phase-1 IEP, there was a significant decline in IM and CM functions respectively, revealed by the decreases in maximal inspiratory pressure (PImax: -8.1%) and performance of a sport-specific endurance plank test (SEPT: -29.7%, p < 0.05). With the 15-min passive recovery, the decline in IM and CM functions from pre-exercise levels were not restored satisfactorily (PImax: -6.4%, SEPT: -19.0%, p < 0.05). Moreover, repeated-sprint ability during the Phase-2 IEP tended to decrease (peak velocity: -2.3%, mean velocity: -2.1%) from the levels recorded in Phase-1. In contrast, following the re-warm-up exercises during half-time, the restoration of IM and CM function was accelerated (PImax: -0.9%, SEPT: -3.3%, p <0 .05). This was associated with enhanced repeated-sprint ability (peak velocity: +3.0%, mean velocity: +2.0%, p < 0.05) in Phase-2 IEP. Nevertheless, the changes in the anterior thigh muscle perfusion assessed by near-infrared spectroscopy following the re-warm-up exercises was not different from that of passive recovery (p > 0.05). The findings suggest that a brief inspiratory-loaded CM exercise regime appears to be an effective re-warm-up strategy that optimizes second-half repeated-sprint performance and core function of players in team sports.		[Tong, Tomas K.] Hong Kong Baptist Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [Baker, Julien S.] Univ West Scotland, Sch Sci, Inst Clin Exercise & Hlth Sci, Hamilton, Scotland; [Zhang, Haifeng] Hebei Normal Univ, Phys Educ Coll, Shijiazhuang, Hebei, Peoples R China; [Kong, Zhaowei] Univ Macau, Fac Educ, Macau, Peoples R China; [Nie, Jinlei] Macao Polytech Inst, Sch Phys Educ & Sports, Macau, Peoples R China; [Tong, Tomas K.] Hong Kong Baptist Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Kowloon Tong, AAB935,Acad & Adm Bldg,Shaw Campus,Renfrew Rd, Hong Kong, Peoples R China								11							Sport Sciences	WOS:000478793900012	42	Article; Article		
J	Vidmar, Marlon Francys; Baroni, Bruno Manfredini; Michelin, Alexandre Froes; Mezzomo, Marcio; Lugokenski, Ricardo; Pimentel, Gilnei Lopes; Silva, Marcelo Faria								Isokinetic eccentric training is more effective than constant load eccentric training on the quadriceps rehabilitation following partial meniscectomy: A randomized clinical trial								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				39				120	125		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.07.005			SEP 2019	2019	Objectives: To compare the effects of conventional (constant load) eccentric training and isokinetic eccentric training on quadriceps muscle mass, strength and functionality of recreational athletes following partial meniscectomy. Design: Randomized controlled trial. Setting: XXXX, Brazil. Participants: 32 recreational male athletes (similar to 27 years old) who underwent partial meniscectomy performed a 6-week quadriceps strength training program in one of the experimental groups: conventional group (CG) or icokinetic group (IG). Main outcome measures: Quadriceps muscle mass, strength, and patients' objective and self-reported function. Results: Both groups enhanced muscle mass, strength and functionality outcomes. The IG presented higher increases than CG for muscle mass (ES = 0.99-1.41), strength (ES = 1.48-2.35), and Lysholm score (ES = 1.0). The magnitude-based inference supports that results 'very likely' or 'almost certainly' favour IG compared to CG for all outcomes, except for the single leg hop test (i.e., between-group similar change). Conclusion: After partial meniscectomy, isokinetic eccentric training is more effective than conventional eccentric training to restore quadriceps muscle mass, strength, and functional capacity. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Vidmar, Marlon Francys; Baroni, Bruno Manfredini; Silva, Marcelo Faria] UFCSPA, Phys Therapy Dept, Grad Program Rehabil Sci, Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil; [Vidmar, Marlon Francys; Michelin, Alexandre Froes; Mezzomo, Marcio; Lugokenski, Ricardo] HO, Passo Fundo, RS, Brazil; [Pimentel, Gilnei Lopes] Univ Passo Fundo, Phys Therapy Dept, Passo Fundo, RS, Brazil; [Vidmar, Marlon Francys] Hosp Ortoped, Setor Fisioterapia, Av Sete Setembro 817, BR-99010121 Passo Fundo, RS, Brazil								8							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000487174600018	44	Article; Article		
J	Moriarty, Christopher; Charnoff, Jesse; Felix, Elizabeth Roy								Injury rate and pattern among Brazilian jiu-jitsu practitioners: A survey study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				39				107	113		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.06.012			SEP 2019	2019	Objective: To determine the 6-month incidence rate and pattern of Brazilian jiu-jitsu (BB)-related injuries and characterize associations between injuries and experience level, demographic factors, and training variables. Design: Descriptive epidemiology study. Setting: Online survey. Participants: 1287 adult BJJ practitioners. Outcome measures: 6-month BJJ-related injury incidence, anatomical pattern of injuries, and injury-associated demographic and training variable identification. Results: 59.2% of practitioners reported at least one injury over 6 months. The knee was the most common site. Logistic regression analysis demonstrated 6-month injury incidence was negatively associated with years of training and body weight, and positively associated with training days per week and instructor status. More experienced athletes were more likely to report low back injury, while less experienced athletes more frequently reported head, upper extremity, and elbow injuries. None of the following variables were predictive of injury risk: gi preference, instruction on break-falling, and participation in a structured beginner's program. Conclusions: The risk factor analysis is applicable to BJJ instructors interested in reducing student injury risk. The widespread pattern of injuries and the distinction between types of injuries sustained at different levels of experience are notable findings that sports medicine practitioners should keep in mind when working with BJJ athletes. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Moriarty, Christopher; Charnoff, Jesse; Felix, Elizabeth Roy] Univ Miami, Dept Phys Med & Rehabil, Sch Med, Coral Gables, FL 33124 USA; [Moriarty, Christopher] Ryder Trauma Ctr, 1800 NW 10th Ave,4th Floor,Room T-405, Miami, FL 33136 USA								19							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000487174600016	23	Article; Article		
J	Linek, Pawel; Booysen, Nadine; Sikora, Damian; Stokes, Maria								Functional movement screen and Y balance tests in adolescent footballers with hip/groin symptoms								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				39				99	106		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.07.002			SEP 2019	2019	Objectives: To assess the correlation between the functional movement screen (FMS) and Y balance test (Y-BT) performance, and the self-reported hip/groin problems, and to compare healthy with hip/groin pain participants. Design: a cross-sectional study. Setting: Sports hall in a football club. Participants: 43 elite adolescent football (soccer) players. Main outcome: The Copenhagen Hip and Groin Outcome Score (HAGOS), Anterior, posterolateral and posteromedial distance of Y-BT, FMS score. Measures: Y balance and FMS test kit, HAGOS questionnaire. Results: The posterolateral, posteromedial distance and composite reach score of the Y-BT were lower in participants with hip/groin problems (p < 0.05). FMS performance was similar in healthy and hip/groin groups. There was a weak correlation (r = 0.32, p = 0.03) between the HAGOS Activities of Daily Living subscale and FMSstabil. In the Y-BT the posterolateral reach was weakly correlated with Symptoms (r = 0.35-0.44, p < 0.02) and moderately correlated with Pain (r = 0.44, p < 0.01) subscales. Posteromedial direction reach with the right leg was weakly correlated with Symptoms (r = 0.32, p = 0.04) and Pain (r = 0.39, p = 0.01). The Y-BT composite score was moderately correlated with Symptoms and Pain (r = 0.42-0.44, p < 0.01). Conclusions: The Y-BT and the FMS subtests were weakly or moderately correlated with self-reported hip/groin problems. Thus, these tests should be investigated further in adolescent footballers because they may have potential to predict hip and groin problems. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Linek, Pawel] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ, Inst Physiotherapy & Hlth Sci, Musculoskeletal Elastogmphy & Ultrasonog Lab, Mikolowska 72B, PL-40065 Katowice, Poland; [Linek, Pawel; Booysen, Nadine; Stokes, Maria] Univ Southampton, Sch Hlth Sci, Southampton, Hants, England; [Sikora, Damian] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ, Dept Kinesitherapy & Special Methods Physiotherap, Katowice, Poland; [Booysen, Nadine; Stokes, Maria] Ctr Sport Exercise & Osteoarthrit Res Versus Arth, Nottingham, England; [Linek, Pawel] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ, Inst Physiotherapy & Hlth Sci, Musculoskeletal Elastogmphy & Ultrasonog Lab, Mikolowska 72B, PL-40065 Katowice, Poland								23							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000487174600015	46	Article; Article		
J	Beuchat, Andre; Maffiuletti, Nicola A.								Foot rotation influences the activity of medial and lateral hamstrings during conventional rehabilitation exercises in patients following anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				39				69	75		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.06.010			SEP 2019	2019	Objectives: To investigate the influence of internal and external foot rotation on medial and lateral hamstring electromyographic (EMG) activity during conventional hamstring exercises in patients following anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) reconstruction. Design: Cross-sectional study. Setting: EMG activity of medial and lateral hamstrings was recorded during prone leg curl, single-leg bridge and Nordic hamstring exercises with three different foot positions (neutral, internal rotation, external rotation), randomly presented. Participants: Twenty patients 9-15 months after ACL reconstruction with the semitendinosus-gracilis graft. Main outcome measures: Concentric and eccentric EMG activity normalized to the EMG activity recorded during a maximal voluntary contraction (MVC). Results: Compared to the neutral position, the EMG activity of the medial hamstring during prone leg curl exercise was significantly increased by internal foot rotation (concentric: +8.7% MVC; eccentric: +5.9% MVC; p < 0.01; d = 0.88-0.99) and decreased by external rotation (concentric: 5.8% MVC; eccentric: 5.2% MVC; p < 0.05; d = 0.67-0.92). Foot position did not significantly affect hamstring EMG activity during single-leg bridge and Nordic hamstring exercises. Conclusions: Active internal rotation of the foot during prone leg curl exercise can help selectively maximize muscle activity of the medial hamstring portion. This may have implications for post-operative rehabilitation of ACL patients with a semitendinosus-gracilis graft. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Beuchat, Andre] Schulthess Clin, Sport Phys Therapy, Zurich, Switzerland; [Maffiuletti, Nicola A.] Schulthess Clin, Human Performance Lab, Zurich, Switzerland; [Beuchat, Andre] Schulthess Clin, Sport Phys Therapy, Zurich, Switzerland								9							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000487174600011	21	Article; Article		
J	Setuain, Igor; Bikandi, Eder; Antonio Amu-Ruiz, Francisco; Izquierdo, Mikel								Horizontal jumping biomechanics among elite male handball players with and without anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction. An inertial sensor unit-based study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				39				52	63		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.06.009			SEP 2019	2019	Objectives: Anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) tears are one of the most devastating injuries that any handball player can suffer during landing and pivoting actions. The aim of this study was to analyze the horizontal jumping biomechanics among male elite handball players with or without previous ACLR. Design: Descriptive study. Setting: Spanish elite male handball players. Participants: Twenty-six male participants (6 ACL-R and 20 uninjured controls) were recruited. Main outcome measures: Two horizontal hopping tasks were evaluated using an inertial sensor unit (ISU)-based technology to assess jumping biomechanics through a direct mechanics-based approach. Results: Non-significant differences were found in relation to any of the biomechanical or performance related analyzed variables. Conclusions: Previously ACL-R elite male handball players who have returned to the top level of sports participation do not seem to possess lasting biomechanical and/or performance deficits 6 years after the original surgical ligament repair. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Setuain, Igor; Bikandi, Eder; Antonio Amu-Ruiz, Francisco; Izquierdo, Mikel] Univ Publ Navarra, Dept Hlth Sci, Campus Tudela Navarra,Av Tarazona S-N, Navarra 31500, Spain; [Setuain, Igor] TDN Adv Rehabil Ctr, Clin Res Dept, Calle 5,3, Navarra 31192, Spain; [Bikandi, Eder] Athlet Club, Mazarredo Zumarkalea 23, Bilbao 48009, Bizkaia, Spain; [Antonio Amu-Ruiz, Francisco] Univ Valle, Dept Sports Sci, Cali, Colombia; [Izquierdo, Mikel] Univ Publ Navarra, Dept Hlth Sci, Campus Tudela Navarra,Av Tarazona S-N, Navarra 31500, Spain								7							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000487174600009	47	Article; Article		
J	Olds, Margie; Coulter, Cade; Marant, Dan; Uhl, Tim								Reliability of a shoulder arm return to sport test battery								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				39				16	22		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.06.001			SEP 2019	2019	Objectives: To establish the reliability and responsiveness of a clinical test battery developed to determine readiness to return to sport after an upper extremity injury. A second objective was to examine the limb symmetry in single limb tests. Design: Methodological study. Participants: Forty healthy participants (20 male) were tested weekly on three occasions. Main outcome measures: Learning effect, inter-rater and intra-rater reliability was calculated for each test in the Shoulder Arm Return to Sports (SARIS) battery with repeated measures ANOVA and intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC). Measurement error and responsiveness were determined using Standard Error of Measure (SEM) and Minimal Detectable Change (MDC). Results: Drop Catches and Ball Taps showed a learning effect between Days 2-3. Intra-rater reliability for the remaining six tests between Days 2-3 ranged between 0.78 (95%CI 0.63-0.88) and 0.96 (95%CI 0.92-0.98) while inter-rater reliability on Day 2 ranged between ICC = 0.96 (95%CI 0.94-0.98) and ICC = 0.99 (95%CI 0.98-0.98). Two tests (BABER (91%) and Drop Catches (93%)) were significantly decreased on the non-dominant side (p = 0.05). Conclusions: Six of the eight tests in the SARIS test battery demonstrate good psychometric properties to evaluate both open and closed chain upper extremity activities indicating their readiness for clinical use. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Olds, Margie] Flawless Mot, 7-88 Cook St, Auckland, New Zealand; [Coulter, Cade; Marant, Dan; Uhl, Tim] Univ Kentucky, Coll Hlth Sci, Dept Rehabil Sci, Div Athlet Training, Lexington, KY USA; [Olds, Margie] 7-88 Cook St, Auckland, New Zealand								30							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000487174600003	20	Article; Article		
J	Simpson, Jeffrey D.; Rendos, Nicole K.; Stewart, Ethan M.; Turner, Alana J.; Wilson, Samuel J.; Macias, David M.; Chander, Harish; Knight, Adam C.								Bilateral spatiotemporal postural control impairments are present in participants with chronic ankle instability								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				39				1	7		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.06.002			SEP 2019	2019	Objectives: This study evaluated center-of-pressure (COP) and time-to-boundary (TTB) measures of postural control during a Lateral Step-Down Test in participants with chronic ankle instability (CAI). Design: Cohort study. Setting: Biomechanics laboratory. Participants: Physically active adults with CAI (n = 15) and matched controls (n = 15). Main outcome measures: Traditional COP and TTB measures of postural control were computed in the medial/lateral (ML) and anterior/posterior (AP) directions. Results: No significant results were found for the traditional COP measures (p > 0.05). The CAI group exhibited a lower TUB ML absolute minimum on their affected limb compared to the matched limb of the control group (p < 0.001). Additionally, on average the CAI group displayed significantly lower TUB ML mean of minima (p = 0.004) and TTB standard deviation of minima in the ML (p < 0.001) and AP directions (p = 0.002) regardless of limb. Conclusions: Sensorimotor impairments associated with CAI negatively alter spatiotemporal postural control and may cause a maladaptive reorganization of centrally mediated motor control strategies that results in bilateral postural control deficits during the Lateral Step-Down Test. In addition, traditional COP measures did not reveal any postural control deficits suggesting that a spatiotemporal analysis should be used when assessing postural control in participants with CAI. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Simpson, Jeffrey D.; Rendos, Nicole K.] Univ West Florida, Dept Movement Sci & Hlth, Sports Med & Neuromech Lab, Pensacola, FL 35214 USA; [Stewart, Ethan M.; Turner, Alana J.; Macias, David M.; Chander, Harish; Knight, Adam C.] Mississippi State Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Neuromech Lab, Mississippi State, MS 39762 USA; [Wilson, Samuel J.] Georgia Southern Univ, Dept Hlth Sci & Kinesiol, Biomech Lab, Statesboro, GA USA; [Macias, David M.] Columbus Orthopaed, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Columbus, MS USA; [Simpson, Jeffrey D.] Univ West Florida, Dept Movement Sci & Hlth, 11000 Univ Pkwy Bldg 72,Rm 216, Pensacola, FL 35214 USA								21							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000487174600001	41	Article; Article		
J	Wiegand, Kristyne; Mercer, John A.; Navalta, James W.; Pharr, Jennifer; Tandy, Richard; Silvernail, Julia Freedman								Running status and history: A self-report study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				39				8	15		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.06.003			SEP 2019	2019	Objectives: The purpose of the current study was to compare injury and running history among current and former runners who consider themselves either injured or uninjured. Design: Cross-sectional survey. Setting: Online survey, available to any individuals over the age of 18 who currently run (runners) or who once ran regularly but are no longer running (former runners). Participants: 312 participants (age 38 +/- 12 years, 219 males, 89 females, 4 did not disclose) completed the survey. Main outcome measures: This study assessed injury incidence, consequences of injury such as time off, and reported injury diagnoses and treatments. Chi-square and frequency analyses were calculated to describe running status, injury counts, and response to injury. Results: Most participants (80%) reported 1 + running injury. 775 total injuries were reported. The four most common injuries were iliotibial band syndrome (34%), plantar fasciitis (30%), strained thigh/hip muscle (25%), and medial tibial stress syndrome (22%). About 40% of participants continued to run with these injuries. Conclusions: Injury frequencies (80%) agreed with those reported in the literature. The results of this study also support the notion that running injuries exist on a continuum of severity and that the individual response to injury is complex and determined by various factors. (C) 2019 Published by Elsevier Ltd.		[Wiegand, Kristyne; Mercer, John A.; Navalta, James W.; Pharr, Jennifer; Tandy, Richard; Silvernail, Julia Freedman] Univ Nevada, Las Vegas, NV 89154 USA; [Silvernail, Julia Freedman] 4505 S Maryland Pkwy, Las Vegas, NV 89154 USA								12							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000487174600002	22	Article; Article		
J	Severin, Anna C.; Tackett, Stewart A.; Barnes, C. Lowry; Mannen, Erin M.								Three-dimensional kinematics in healthy older adult males during golf swings								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				21	2			165	178		10.1080/14763141.2019.1649452			FEB 7 2022	2022	The biomechanics of the golf swing have received considerable attention in previous research. However, existing studies have focused on young athletes, while the kinematics of older golfers remain poorly documented. This study presents kinematic data for healthy senior golfers during swings performed with a driver and six-iron. Seventeen male golfers (62.2 +/- 8.8 years) volunteered for participation and a 10-camera Vicon system (Oxford, UK) recorded kinematic data (500 Hz). A launch monitor (TrackMan, Vedb AE k, Denmark) recorded club head speed and initial ball speed. Joint angles and peak velocities of the trunk and lower body were extracted at the top of the backswing, ball contact, and end of the swing. Intraclass correlations and standard error of measurement determined reliability, and pairwise statistics determined between-club differences. Swings with the driver had 7.3 degrees less trunk extension and 4.3 degrees less X-factor at backswing, and 10.5 degrees less trunk flexion and 3.2 degrees less X-factor at ball impact. Older adults portray several differences in lower body kinematics between a six-iron and driver but maintain good to excellent reliability (0.728-0.997) during the swings. Comparisons with previous research also showed senior athletes produce slower club head and ball speeds than younger golfers, and that kinematic differences exist between the populations.		[Severin, Anna C.; Tackett, Stewart A.; Barnes, C. Lowry; Mannen, Erin M.] Univ Arkansas Med Sci, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Little Rock, AR 72205 USA; [Mannen, Erin M.] Univ Arkansas Med Sci, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Little Rock, AR 72205 USA								4							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000483484600001	34	Article; Article		
J	Glanzer, Joshua A.; Diffendaffer, Alek Z.; Slowik, Jonathan S.; Drogosz, Monika; Lo, Nicholas J.; Fleisig, Glenn S.								The relationship between variability in baseball pitching kinematics and consistency in pitch location								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				20	7			879	886		10.1080/14763141.2019.1642378			OCT 3 2021	2021	The purpose of this study was to explore the relationship between variability in pitching kinematics and consistency in pitch location. Data were collected for 47 healthy baseball pitchers throwing ten full-effort fastballs to the centre of the strike zone. For each pitch, 20 kinematic parameters were calculated with an automated motion capture system while pitch location was measured with a PITCHf/x system. Variability of each kinematic parameter was defined for each pitcher as the standard deviation among his fastballs thrown. For calculating consistency, each pitcher's mean pitch location was first calculated. The distances from each individual pitch to the mean pitch location were then found for each pitcher tested. A consistency metric was then calculated for each pitcher by averaging these distances. A multiple linear regression model was developed using stepwise regression with backwards elimination. The resulting model explained 58% of the variance in the consistency metric and included five parameters, three at foot contact (upper trunk tilt, shoulder abduction, and shoulder horizontal abduction) and two at time of maximum shoulder external rotation (shoulder external rotation and shoulder horizontal adduction). Reducing variability at the shoulder during the early portions of the pitching motion may improve consistency of ball location.		[Glanzer, Joshua A.; Diffendaffer, Alek Z.; Slowik, Jonathan S.; Drogosz, Monika; Lo, Nicholas J.; Fleisig, Glenn S.] Amer Sports Med Inst, Birmingham, AL 35205 USA; [Fleisig, Glenn S.] Amer Sports Med Inst, Birmingham, AL 35205 USA								23							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000483483800001	21	Article; Article		
J	May, Tamara; Sivaratnam, Carmel; Williams, Katrina; McGillivray, Jane; Whitehouse, Andrew; Rinehart, Nicole J.								'Everyone gets a kick': Coach characteristics and approaches to inclusion in an Australian Rules Football program for children								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				14	5			607	616	1747954119870294	10.1177/1747954119870294			OCT 2019	2019	This study aimed to understand coaches' approaches to including children with disabilities in a community-based Australian rules football program for children. Football coaches for the program, called Auskick, completed an online survey providing qualitative and quantitative information about their experiences of inclusive coaching. Coaches (N = 130) completed the survey over 2016/2017. The average years of coaching experience was 3.3 (range 0-19 years). While 79% of coaches had experienced a child with a disability attending their football centre, only 31% of coaches (56% of paid coaches and 27% of volunteer coaches) had completed disability training. Autism, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder and intellectual disability were the most common types of developmental disabilities, and asthma, vision and hearing problems were the most common physical disabilities of children attending the coaches' centres. Eighty-nine coaches provided examples of inclusive approaches. The most common was having an inclusive attitude, asking the parents for help, making adaptations to suit the child, giving extra time, getting additional help and staff training. Community football coaches frequently work with children who have a broad range of developmental and physical disabilities. Coach disability training is needed to support children with disabilities attending these types of sporting programs in the community.		[May, Tamara; Sivaratnam, Carmel; McGillivray, Jane; Rinehart, Nicole J.] Deakin Univ, Sch Psychol, Burwood, Vic, Australia; [May, Tamara; Williams, Katrina] Murdoch Childrens Res Ctr, Parkville, Vic, Australia; [Williams, Katrina] Univ Melbourne, Dept Paediat, Parkville, Vic, Australia; [Williams, Katrina] Royal Childrens Hosp Melbourne, Parkville, Vic, Australia; [Whitehouse, Andrew] Univ Western Australia, Telethon Kids Inst, Perth, WA, Australia; [May, Tamara] Monash Univ, Dept Paediat, Monash Childrens Hosp, Level 5,246 Clayton Rd, Clayton, Vic 3168, Australia								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000483670600001	20	Article; Article		
J	Sacko, Ryan; McIver, Kerry; Brazendale, Keith; Pfeifer, Craig; Brian, Ali; Nesbitt, Danielle; Stodden, David F.								Comparison of Indirect Calorimetry- and Accelerometry-Based Energy Expenditure During Children's Discrete Skill Performance								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				90	4			629	640		10.1080/02701367.2019.1642440			OCT 2 2019	2019	Purpose: To compare children's energy expenditure (EE) levels during object projection skill performance (OPSP; e.g., kicking, throwing, striking) as assessed by hip- and wrist-worn accelerometers. Method: Forty-two children (female n = 20, Mage = 8.1 +/- 0.8 years) performed three, nine-minute sessions of kicking, over-arm throwing, and striking at performance intervals of 6, 12, and 30 seconds. EE was estimated using indirect calorimetry (COSMED k4b2) and accelerometers (ActiGraph GT3X+) worn on three different locations (hip, dominant-wrist, and non-dominant-wrist) using four commonly used cut-points. Bland-Altman plots were used to analyze the agreement in EE estimations between accelerometry and indirect calorimetry (METS). Chi-square goodness of fit tests were used to examine the agreement between accelerometry and indirect calorimetry. Results: Hip- and wrist-worn accelerometers underestimated EE, compared to indirect calorimetry, during all performance conditions. Skill practice at a rate of two trials per minute resulted in the equivalent of moderate PA and five trials per minute resulted in vigorous PA (as measured by indirect calorimetry), yet was only categorized as light and/or moderate activity by all measured forms of accelerometry. Conclusion: This is one of the first studies to evaluate the ability of hip- and wrist-worn accelerometers to predict PA intensity levels during OPSP in children. These data may significantly impact PA intervention measurement strategies by revealing the lack of validity in accelerometers to accurately predict PA levels during OPSP in children.		[Sacko, Ryan] The Citadel, Charleston, SC USA; [McIver, Kerry; Brian, Ali; Nesbitt, Danielle; Stodden, David F.] Univ South Carolina, Columbia, SC 29208 USA; [Brazendale, Keith] Univ Cent Florida, Orlando, FL 32816 USA; [Pfeifer, Craig] Univ Gloucestershire, Cheltenham, Glos, England; [Sacko, Ryan] The Citadel, Dept Hlth & Human Performance, 171 Moultrie St, Charleston, SC 29409 USA								12							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000483209800001	50	Article; Article		
J	Strohacker, Kelley; Zakrajsek, Rebecca A.; Schaltegger, Ethan T.; Springer, Cary M.								Readiness to Perform Aerobic Activity in Adults With Obesity: A Thematic Analysis of Online Surveys								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				90	4			619	628		10.1080/02701367.2019.1642439			OCT 2 2019	2019	Flexible nonlinear periodization (FNLP) was designed to optimize sport-specific resistance training by matching bout demand to pre-exercise mental and physical states ("readiness to train"). Before applying this participant-responsive framework to aerobic prescriptions for inactive adults, operational definitions of readiness are needed. Purpose: To identify themes underlying readiness to perform aerobic bouts considered to be low-demand bouts (LDB) and high-demand bouts (HDB) in adults with obesity. Method: Using Qualtrics, 1,059 respondents initiated the online survey. Quality responses from adults with obesity (N = 112) were analyzed. Respondents described physical and mental states necessary to complete an LDB (10-min slow stroll) and an HDB (60-min jog). Data were assessed using content and thematic analyses. Results: Respondents (57% female) could be classified with class II obesity (35 +/- 5 kg/m(2)) and were 48 +/- 12 years old. One theme, body integrity (no pain//illness) emerged for both the LDB and HDB. Regarding affect/arousal, both bouts required the need to feel rested and in a positive mood, but the HDB required higher states of arousal ("pumped up"). Specific to the LDB, a recurring theme suggested that it could be completed under normal or worse (hungry, sick) circumstances. Specific to the HDB were themes relating to physical fitness, proper fueling ("hydrated," "not hungry but not too full"), and enhanced motivation ("determination," "focus," "confidence"). Conclusions: These uncovered themes provide empirical evidence to guide the construction of a readiness checklist that can be further validated and applied in adults with obesity undergoing an FNLP-based aerobic exercise prescription.		[Strohacker, Kelley; Zakrajsek, Rebecca A.; Schaltegger, Ethan T.; Springer, Cary M.] Univ Tennessee, Knoxville, TN USA; [Strohacker, Kelley] Univ Tennessee, Dept Kinesiol Recreat & Sport Studies, 1914 Andy Holt Ave, Knoxville, TN 37996 USA								8							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000482720000001	35	Article; Article		
J	Menting, Stein Gerrit Paul; Elferink-Gemser, Marije Titia; Edwards, Andrew Mark; Hettinga, Florentina Johanna								Effects of Experience and Opponents on Pacing Behavior and 2-km Cycling Performance of Novice Youths								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				90	4			609	618		10.1080/02701367.2019.1640840			OCT 2 2019	2019	Purpose: To study the pacing behavior and performance of novice youth exercisers in a controlled laboratory setting. Method: Ten healthy participants (seven male, three female, 15.8 +/- 1.0 years) completed four, 2-km trials on a Velotron cycling ergometer. Visit 1 was a familiarization trial. Visits 2 to 4 involved the following conditions, in randomized order: no opponent (NO), a virtual opponent (starting slow and finishing fast) (OP-SLOWFAST), and a virtual opponent (starting fast and finishing slow) (OP-FASTSLOW). Repeated measurement ANOVAs (p < .05) were used to examine differences in both pacing behavior and also performance related to power output, finishing- and split times, and RPE between the four successive visits and the three conditions. Expected performance outcome was measured using a questionnaire. Results: Power output increased (F-3,F-27 = 5.651, p = .004, eta(2)(p) = .386) and finishing time decreased (F-3,F-27 = 9.972, p < .001, eta(2)(p) = .526) between visit 1 and visits 2, 3 and 4. In comparison of the first and second visit, the difference between expected finish time and actual finishing time decreased by 66.2%, regardless of condition. The only significant difference observed in RPE score was reported at the 500 m point, where RPE was higher during visit 1 compared to visits 3 and 4, and during visit 2 compared to visit 4 (p < .05). No differences in pacing behavior, performance, or RPE were found between conditions (p > .05). Conclusion: Performance was improved by an increase in experience after one visit, parallel with the ability to anticipate future workload.		[Menting, Stein Gerrit Paul; Elferink-Gemser, Marije Titia] Univ Groningen, Univ Med Ctr Groningen, Groningen, Netherlands; [Menting, Stein Gerrit Paul; Hettinga, Florentina Johanna] Univ Essex, Colchester, Essex, England; [Edwards, Andrew Mark] Canterbury Christ Church Univ, Canterbury, Kent, England; [Hettinga, Florentina Johanna] Northumbria Univ, Newcastle Upon Tyne, Tyne & Wear, England; [Hettinga, Florentina Johanna] Northumbria Univ, Fac Hlth & Life Sci, Dept Sport Exercise & Rehabil, Room 238,Northumberland Bldg, Newcastle Upon Tyne NE1 8ST, Tyne & Wear, England								8							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000482719800001	37	Article; Article		
J	Reichter, Alison Phillips; Weiss, Maureen R.								Conceptions of Adolescent Friendship Quality in Sport and Music Domains								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				90	4			534	546		10.1080/02701367.2019.1632412			OCT 2 2019	2019	Purpose: The purposes of the present study were to (a) compare context-specific conceptions of friendship quality in youth sport and music, and (b) determine how friendship quality is related to motivational beliefs in sport and music. Method: Adolescents (N = 366; M-age = 12.9, SD = 1.0) who were involved in both organized sport and music completed measures of domain-specific friendship quality, perceived competence, enjoyment, anxiety, and motivational orientation. Results: For purpose one, a repeated-measures MANOVA revealed that (a) boys and girls rated their best sport friends higher in self-esteem enhancement and supportiveness than their best music friends, (b) boys rated their best sport friends higher in loyalty and intimacy, things in common, companionship and pleasant play, and conflict resolution than their best music friends, (c) girls rated positive friendship quality dimensions higher than boys, and (d) there were no domain or gender differences in friendship conflict. For purpose two, structural equation modeling revealed that (a) for sport, positive friendship quality dimensions were directly associated with perceived competence and indirectly associated with enjoyment, anxiety, and motivational orientation, and (b) for music, positive friendship quality and friendship conflict were related to competence motivation variables. Conclusion: Collectively, findings indicate domain differences in friendship quality and the relationship between friendship quality and motivational outcomes in sport and music. Despite some domain differences, findings demonstrate the significance of friendship quality for adolescents involved in sport and music.		[Reichter, Alison Phillips] Univ Iowa, Iowa City, IA 52242 USA; [Weiss, Maureen R.] Univ Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN USA; [Reichter, Alison Phillips] Univ Iowa, Dept Hlth & Human Physiol, Iowa City, IA 52242 USA								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000481199800001	48	Article; Article		
J	Roldan, Ainoa; Cordellat, Ana; Monteagudo, Pablo; Garcia-Lucerga, Consolacion; Blasco-Lafarga, Nieves M.; Carmen Gomez-Cabrera, Ma; Blasco-Lafarga, Cristina								Beneficial Effects of Inspiratory Muscle Training Combined With Multicomponent Training in Elderly Active Women								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				90	4			547	554		10.1080/02701367.2019.1633009			OCT 2 2019	2019	Purpose: This study aims to analyze changes in Maximum Inspiratory Pressure (MIP), lung function, cardiorespiratory fitness, and blood pressure, in 10 healthy active elderly women, following 7 weeks of inspiratory muscle training (IMT) combined with a multicomponent training program (MCTP). The association among these health parameters, their changes after training (deltas), and the influence of MIP at baseline (MIPpre) are also considered. Methods: IMT involved 30 inspirations at 50% of the MIP, twice daily, 7 days a week, while MCTP was 1 hr, twice a week. MIP, lung function (FVC, FEV1, FEV1/FVC, FEF25-75%, PEF), 6MWT, and blood pressure (SBP, DBP), jointly with body composition, were assessed before and after the intervention. Results: Seven weeks were enough to improved MIP (p = .019; d = 1.397), 6MWT (p = .012; d = .832), SBP (p = .003; d = 1.035) and DBP (p = .024; d = .848). Despite the high physical fitness (VO2 peak: M = 23.38, SD = 3.39 ml center dot min center dot Kg(-1)), MIPpre was low (M = 39.00, SD = 7.63 cmH(2)O) and displayed a significant negative correlation with Delta MIPpre-post (r = -.821; p < .004), showing that women who started the intervention with lower MIP achieved higher improvements in inspiratory muscle strength after training. Conclusions: No significant changes in spirometric parameters may signal that lung function is independent of early improvements in inspiratory muscles and cardiorespiratory fitness. Absence of correlation between physical fitness and respiratory outcomes suggests that being fit does not ensure cardiorespiratory health in active elderly women, so IMT might be beneficial and should supplement the MCTP in this population.		[Roldan, Ainoa; Cordellat, Ana; Monteagudo, Pablo; Garcia-Lucerga, Consolacion; Blasco-Lafarga, Nieves M.; Carmen Gomez-Cabrera, Ma; Blasco-Lafarga, Cristina] Univ Valencia, Valencia, Spain; [Roldan, Ainoa] Univ Valencia, Dept Phys Educ & Sports, C Gasco Oliag 3, Valencia 46010, Spain								16							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000481208700001	35	Article; Article		
J	Yamaguchi, Taichi; Takizawa, Kazuki; Shibata, Keisuke; Tomabechi, Nobuyasu; Samukawa, Mina; Yamanaka, Masanori								Effect of General Warm-Up Plus Dynamic Stretching on Endurance Running Performance in Well-Trained Male Runners								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				90	4			527	533		10.1080/02701367.2019.1630700			OCT 2 2019	2019	Purpose: The purpose of this study was to compare the acute effects of general warm-up (GWU) and GWU plus dynamic stretching (GWU + DS) on endurance running performance in well-trained male runners. Method: The endurance running performances of eight well-trained long-distance male runners were assessed on a treadmill after 2 types of intervention for 5 min after running on the treadmill at a velocity equivalent to 70% maximal oxygen uptake (V?O(2)max) in each athlete for 15 min. The interventions were GWU and GWU + DS. In the GWU + DS intervention, dynamic stretching was performed for ten repetitions as quickly as possible for the five muscle groups of the lower extremities. The total duration of the dynamic stretching was 3 min and 45 s. Endurance running performance was assessed at 1 min 15 s after the dynamic stretching. The endurance running performance was evaluated by the time to exhaustion (TTE) during running at a velocity equivalent to 90% O(2)max in each athlete. Results: The TTE (640.6 +/- 220.4 s) after GWU + DS intervention was significantly (d = 1.02, p = .03) shorter than that (760.6 +/- 249.1 s) after GWU intervention. Conclusions: The results demonstrated that GWU + DS intervention impaired immediate endurance performance of running at a velocity equivalent to 90% O(2)max in well-trained male runners compared with GWU intervention. Thus, we are not able to recommend that well-trained runners and their coaches use the protocol for GWU + DS described in this study during actual warm-ups.		[Yamaguchi, Taichi; Shibata, Keisuke] Rakuno Gakuen Univ, Ebetsu, Hokkaido, Japan; [Takizawa, Kazuki] Inst Phys Dev Res, Sapporo, Hokkaido, Japan; [Shibata, Keisuke; Tomabechi, Nobuyasu; Samukawa, Mina; Yamanaka, Masanori] Hokkaido Univ, Sapporo, Hokkaido, Japan; [Tomabechi, Nobuyasu] Nippon Sport Sci Univ, Tokyo, Japan; [Yamanaka, Masanori] Hokkaido Chitose Coll Rehabil, Chitose, Hokkaido, Japan; [Yamaguchi, Taichi] Rakuno Gakuen Univ, Coll Agr Food & Environm Sci, Dept Food Sci & Human Wellness, Lab Food Ecol & Sports Sci, 582 Bunkyodai Midorimachi, Ebetsu, Hokkaido 0698501, Japan								9							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000481077600001	18	Article; Article		
J	Johnson, Jerraco L.; Rudisill, Mary E.; Hastie, Peter; Wadsworth, Danielle; Strunk, Kamden; Venezia, Alexandra; Sassi, Julia; Morris, Michael; Merritt, Monaye								Changes in Fundamental Motor-Skill Performance Following a Nine-Month Mastery Motivational Climate Intervention								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				90	4			517	526		10.1080/02701367.2019.1628909			OCT 2 2019	2019	Purpose: Children who do not learn their fundamental motor skills (FMS) are more likely to be unskilled, sedentary adults. By consequence, it behooves those teaching physical education to put in place mechanisms that promote as well as motivate children to master their FMS. One approach to achieving this goal is through the adoption of mastery motivational climates (MMC) in physical education. The purpose of this study was to determine the effects of a year-long (9-month) MMC physical education program on preschool children's FMS learning. Method: Participants (N = 96, MMC = 58, Comparison = 38) completed the Test of Gross Motor Development-Third Edition prior to and after intervention. Intact classrooms were randomly assigned to either a MMC or comparison group. A repeated measures nested MANOVA was used to test changes by group. Follow-up measurements included univariate repeated measures and simple effects analyses. Results: There were no significant multivariate differences based on class membership (p = .249), indicating the nested structure was not associated with any meaningful differences in test scores. There was a significant multivariate difference based on the interaction of time (pre- versus post-test) and group (p < .001). Both locomotor and ball skills significantly varied between groups and across time. Children in both groups improved from pre-test to post-test, but the rate of improvement was significantly greater for the MMC group. Conclusions: A year-long MMC intervention is beneficial for improving children's FMS.		[Johnson, Jerraco L.; Rudisill, Mary E.; Hastie, Peter; Wadsworth, Danielle; Strunk, Kamden; Venezia, Alexandra; Sassi, Julia; Morris, Michael; Merritt, Monaye] Auburn Univ, Auburn, AL 36849 USA; [Johnson, Jerraco L.] Auburn Univ, Sch Kinesiol, 301 Wire Rd, Auburn, AL 36849 USA								30							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000481084600001	35	Article; Article		
J	Taniyev, Olzhas; Gordon, Brian S.								Crafting a legacy: investigating the retired athlete brand image								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				20	3			390	406		10.1108/IJSMS-02-2018-0018			AUG 5 2019	2019	Purpose The purpose of this paper exploratory study is to decipher sport consumer associations and sentiments connected to the brand image of retired athletes. Design/methodology/approach In total, 14 sport consumers, who demonstrated an in-depth knowledge of throwback branding tactics and expertise in athlete brand promotion, participated in in-depth semi-structured interviews. Findings The findings indicate there are three prevalent themes across the present data (i.e. epoch epitome, athlete-team connection and off-the-field persona). Originality/value While the proliferation of throwback merchandise and affinity for brands of retired athletes is evident, the internalization of associations related to retired athletes has escaped empirical investigation. Numerous questions concerning how specific facets of a retired athlete's image (e.g. athletic skills or life off the field) activate nostalgic feelings, drive consumer loyalty and establish market permanence remain unanswered. The current study contributes to the understanding of the brand image of the retired athlete and the existing literature concerning athlete branding.		[Taniyev, Olzhas] Roanoke Coll, Dept Hlth & Human Performance, Salem, VA 24153 USA; [Gordon, Brian S.] Univ Kansas, Dept Hlth Sport & Exercise Sci, Lawrence, KS 66045 USA; [Taniyev, Olzhas] Roanoke Coll, Dept Hlth & Human Performance, Salem, VA 24153 USA								13							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000491475500002	65	Article; Article		
J	Foroughi, Behzad; Shah, Khairul Anuar Mohammad; Ramayah, Thurasamy; Iranmanesh, Mohammad								The effects of peripheral service quality on spectators' emotions and behavioural intentions								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				20	3			495	515		10.1108/IJSMS-08-2018-0082			AUG 5 2019	2019	Purpose The purpose of this paper is to investigate the impacts of peripheral service quality on football match spectators' emotions and behavioural intention. Design/methodology/approach Data were obtained from a survey of 342 spectators of professional league football in Malaysia and analysed using the partial least squares technique. Findings The results illustrated the significant role of both pleasant and unpleasant emotions in forming spectators' behavioural intentions. Furthermore, they demonstrated that the drivers of pleasant and unpleasant emotions are different. While entertainment, electronic devices and stadium announcers have positive effects on pleasant emotion, facilities and electronic devices have negative effects on unpleasant emotion. Entertainment, electronic devices and stadium announcers have indirect effects on behavioural intentions through pleasant emotions. Unpleasant emotions mediated the effects of facilities and electronic devices on behavioural intentions. Originality/value The findings of this study suggest that football marketers must understand the crucial role of peripheral service quality and spectators' emotions. Through stimulating pleasant emotions in spectators and preventing unpleasant emotions from arising, football marketers can ensure that these spectators will attend football stadiums.		[Foroughi, Behzad; Iranmanesh, Mohammad] Univ Sains Malaysia, Grad Sch Business, Minden, Malaysia; [Shah, Khairul Anuar Mohammad; Ramayah, Thurasamy] Univ Sains Malaysia, Sch Management, Minden, Malaysia; [Foroughi, Behzad] Univ Sains Malaysia, Grad Sch Business, Minden, Malaysia								35							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000491475500008	109	Article; Article		
J	Foroughi, Behzad; Iranmanesh, Mohammad; Gholipour, Hassan F.; Hyun, Sunghyup Sean								Examining relationships among process quality, outcome quality, delight, satisfaction and behavioural intentions in fitness centres in Malaysia								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				20	3			374	389		10.1108/IJSMS-08-2018-0078			AUG 5 2019	2019	Purpose The purpose of this paper is to investigate the effects of process and outcome quality on fitness members' delight and satisfaction. Furthermore, the relationships between delight, satisfaction and behavioural intention are investigated. Design/methodology/approach Data were obtained from a survey of 379 members of fitness centres in Malaysia and analysed using the partial least squares technique. Findings The results indicated that process quality and outcome quality had a significant effect on customer delight and satisfaction. Furthermore, customer delight influenced customers' satisfaction and behavioural intentions. Originality/value This study is the first attempt to investigate the importance of outcome quality and customer delight in the fitness industry.		[Foroughi, Behzad; Iranmanesh, Mohammad] Univ Sains Malaysia, Grad Sch Business, Minden, Malaysia; [Gholipour, Hassan F.] Swinburne Univ Technol, Swinburne Business Sch, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Hyun, Sunghyup Sean] Hanyang Univ, Sch Tourism, Seoul, South Korea; [Hyun, Sunghyup Sean] Hanyang Univ, Sch Tourism, Seoul, South Korea								66							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000491475500001	96	Article; Article		
J	Yuan, Shaofeng; Huo, Chunhui; Malik, Tariq H.								The negative spillover effect in sports sponsorship An experiment examining the impact of team performance on sponsor's brand trust								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				20	3			477	494		10.1108/IJSMS-01-2018-0003			AUG 5 2019	2019	Purpose The purpose of this paper is to examine a possible negative spillover effect in sports sponsorship to answer whether the sponsored team's poor performance will have a negative effect on audiences' trust in its sponsor's brand. The authors further analysed whether the audience's attitude towards the team plays a mediating role and whether the audience's personality type (active vs passive) plays a moderating role in this negative spillover effect. Design/methodology/approach Three experimental studies were conducted with 380 Chinese undergraduates and MBA student participants over two years. The authors designed the experiment as a computer-mediated intervention in which good, poor and neutral performance groups were compared. After the respondents were exposed to the intervention, we asked them to answer questions using a computer terminal. We analysed the data from the three experiments through analysis of variance (ANOVA), regression analysis and a bootstrap. Findings The audiences who were exposed to a team's poor performance condition reported less trust in the sponsor's brand relative to those exposed to a good performance condition, and the brand trust was even lower than for those who were exposed to a control condition (no performance information). Further, the audience's negative attitude towards the sports team mediated the negative effect of the team's poor performance on its sponsor's brand trust. The negative effect was more obvious for individuals with Type A personalities (active) than for those with Type B personalities (passive). Originality/value The prior literature has neglected a possible negative effect of a sports team's performance on its sponsor's brand trust. In particular, questions of whether, how and when this negative effect occurs are critical for sponsors, teams, and audiences. Since sports team sponsorship is burgeoning in China, the negative implications are unclear in this new context. Thus, the revelation that the negative spillover effects of a team's poor performance on audiences' trust in the sponsor's brand provides two original contributions. First, the negative effect reveals value for multiple sponsorship stakeholders. Second, the Chinese context in this study adds value for future research and practice regarding both Chinese-foreign and domestic Chinese decisions.		[Yuan, Shaofeng; Huo, Chunhui] Liaoning Univ, Business Sch, Shenyang, Liaoning, Peoples R China; [Malik, Tariq H.] Liaoning Univ, Int Ctr Org & Innovat Studies, Shenyang, Liaoning, Peoples R China; [Huo, Chunhui] Liaoning Univ, Business Sch, Shenyang, Liaoning, Peoples R China								9							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000491475500007	65	Article; Article		
J	Fujimoto, Masaki								Equal Revenue Sharing and the Optimal Distribution of Talent in the N-Team Leagues								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				21	2			103	114	1527002519867368	10.1177/1527002519867368			FEB 2020	2020	This article shows that if a certain symmetric property of contests is assumed, then the ratio of equilibrium talent levels under equal revenue sharing maximizes the total league revenue and profits in the n-team model. This result holds irrespective of the types of conjectural variations, "Walrasian" or "Nash."		[Fujimoto, Masaki] Kindai Univ, Econ, Higashiosaka, Osaka, Japan; [Fujimoto, Masaki] Kindai Univ, 3-4-1 Kowakae, Higashiosaka, Osaka 5778502, Japan								4							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000480318900001	16	Article; Article		
J	Machek, Steven B.; Willoughby, Darryn S.								Non-nutritive Sweeteners: Implications for Consumption in Athletic Populations								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				41	4			112	126		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000469			AUG 2019	2019	Non-nutritive sweeteners (nns) are commercially used to enhance palatability without increased sugar and/or calories in an attempt to control body weight and/or blood glucose. recently, athletes and fitness enthusiasts are consuming more nns; however, not without concern for satiety, glucose control, and general physiological adaptations. This article aims to comprehensively evaluate the metabolic impacts of nns in cell culture, animal models, and humans, as well as establishing considerations for those seeking optimal performance and body composition. Approximately 80 articles were identified and reviewed using 29 search terms. Overall, nns consumption has the propensity to either augment or hinder exercise adaptation.		[Machek, Steven B.; Willoughby, Darryn S.] Baylor Univ, Robbins Coll Hlth & Human Sci, Dept Hlth Human Performance & Recreat, Exercise & Biochem Nutr Lab, Waco, TX 76798 USA; [Willoughby, Darryn S.] Baylor Univ, Robbins Coll Hlth & Human Sci, Dept Hlth Human Performance & Recreat, Exercise & Biochem Nutr Lab, Waco, TX 76798 USA								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:000509684300011	83	Article; Article		
J	Hutchison, Randolph E.; Caterisano, Anthony								Comparison of Peak Ground Reaction Force, Joint Kinetics and Kinematics, and Muscle Activity Between a Flexible and Steel Barbell During the Back Squat Exercise								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				68	1			99	108		10.2478/hukin-2019-0059			AUG 2019	2019	The flexible barbell is purported to improve training gains compared with an Olympic steel barbell (SB) during the back squat exercise with Division I collegiate American football programs. The two bars loaded at 30% 1-repetition maximum were compared with ten trained Division I American football players (n = 10; age = 19.5 years; body mass = 89.4 kg; body height = 182.0 cm) completing 10 repetitions of the back squat exercise. Analysis included integrated-peak values of electromyography of the rectus femoris, biceps femoris, rectus abdominis, erector spinae, external oblique, vastus lateralis, ground reaction forces, and joint kinematics and kinetics of the hip, knee, and ankle. The flexible bar elicited significant increases in peak joint kinetics (Hip Moment: 229 +/- 54 Nm vs. 209 +/- 52 Nm; Hip Power: 494 +/- 151 W vs. 382 +/- 134 W; Knee Power: 305 +/- 108 W vs. 241 +/- 63 W), peak vertical ground reaction forces (1195 +/- 209 N vs. 1120 +/- 203 N), and muscle activity (Vastus Lateralis: 75.7 vs. 66.5%, Rectus Abdominis: 190 vs. 115%, Rectus Femoris: 69.8 vs. 59.9%, External Oblique: 115 vs. 69.0%). Greater vertical ground reaction forces, hip moment, hip power, knee power, and muscle activity of the vastus lateralis, rectus abdominis, rectus femoris, and external oblique suggest the FB provides biomechanical and physiological mechanisms for training gains over the SB for 30% of 1-repetition maximum loads.		[Hutchison, Randolph E.; Caterisano, Anthony] Furman Univ, Dept Hlth Sci, 3300 Poinsett Hwy, Greenville, SC 29613 USA; [Hutchison, Randolph E.] Furman Univ, Dept Hlth Sci, 3300 Poinsett Hwy, Greenville, SC 29613 USA								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:000487060000008	40	Article; Article		
J	Jukic, Ivan; Tufano, James J.								Rest Redistribution Functions as a Free and Ad-Hoc Equivalent to Commonly Used Velocity-Based Training Thresholds During Clean Pulls at Different Loads								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				68	1			5	16		10.2478/hukin-2019-0052			AUG 2019	2019	This study determined whether redistributing total rest time into shorter, but more frequent rest periods could maintain velocity and power output during 3 traditional sets of 6 clean pulls using 80% (TS80), 100% (TS100) and 120% (TS120) of power clean 1RM with 180 seconds of inter-set rest and during 3 "rest redistribution" protocols of 9 sets of 2 clean pulls using 80% (RR80), 100% (RR100) and 120% (RR120) of power clean 1RM with 45 seconds of inter-set rest. The total number of repetitions performed above 10 and 20% velocity loss thresholds, mean and peak velocity maintenance (the average of all 18 repetitions relative to the best repetition; MVM, PVM), and decline (the worst repetition relative to the best repetition; MVD, PVD) were calculated. For MVM, PVM, MVD, and PVD, there were small-to-moderate effect sizes in favour of RR80 and RR100, but large effects favouring RR120, compared to their respective TS protocols. The number of repetitions within a 20% velocity loss threshold was 17.7 +/- 0.6 during RR and 16.5 +/- 2.4 during TS (effect size 0.69); and the number of repetitions within a 10% velocity loss threshold was about 13.1 +/- 3.7 during RR and 10.7 +/- 3.6 during TS (effect size 0.66). Therefore, RR generally allowed for a better overall maintenance of velocity and power, especially at heavy loads. Coaches who wish to implement velocity-based training, but who do not wish to purchase or use the associated equipment, may consider rest-redistribution to encourage similar training stimuli.		[Jukic, Ivan] Auckland Univ Technol, SPRINZ, Auckland, New Zealand; [Tufano, James J.] Charles Univ Prague, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Prague, Czech Republic; [Jukic, Ivan] SPRINZ, 17 Antares Pl, Auckland, New Zealand								22							Sport Sciences	WOS:000487060000001	26	Article; Article		
J	Wilk, Michal; Gepfert, Mariola; Krzysztofik, Michal; Golas, Artur; Mostowik, Aleksandra; Maszczyk, Adam; Zajac, Adam								The Influence of Grip Width on Training Volume During the Bench Press with Different Movement Tempos								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				68	1			49	57		10.2478/hukin-2019-0055			AUG 2019	2019	The aim of the study was to determine the effect of the wide-grip bench press (WGBP) and the close-grip bench press (CGBP) on the number of performed repetitions (REPs) and time under tension (TUT) using a variable tempo of movement. Twenty (20) women experienced in resistance training were enrolled in the study (1RM-CGBP = 55.2 +/- 9.5 kg; 1RM-WGBP = 52.7 +/- 8.5 kg). Participants performed 5 sets of the BP with a maximal number of REPs at 70%1RM. Different tempos of movement, i.e., slow (6/0/X/0) and fast (2/0/X/0), and grip widths, i.e., the CGBP and the WGBP, were employed. The following variables were registered: maximal number of repetitions in every set (REPSet1-5), total number of repetitions performed in 5 sets (TREP), maximal time under tension in every set (TUTSet1-5) and total time under tension in 5 sets (TTUT). The two-way ANOVA revealed statistically significant differences between the WGBP(FAST) and the WGBP(SLOW) in TUTSet1-5 (p < 0.05) and TTUT (p < 0.01), as well as between the CGBP(FAST) and the CGBP(SLOW) in TUTSet1-5 (p < 0.01) and TTUT (p < 0.01). Significant differences between the WGBP(FAST) and the WGBP(SLOW) were also observed in REPSet1-5 (p < 0.01) and TREP (p < 0.01) as well as between the CGBP(FAST) and the CGBP(SLOW) in REPSet1-5 (p < 0.01) and TREP (p < 0.01). No significant differences between the WGBP(SLOW) and the CGBP(SLOW) nor the WGBP(FAST) and the CGBP(FAST) were found. The study demonstrates that the tempo of movement, regardless of the width grip, has a significant effect on the volume of effort in resistance training.		[Wilk, Michal; Gepfert, Mariola; Krzysztofik, Michal; Golas, Artur; Mostowik, Aleksandra; Zajac, Adam] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Dept Sports Training, Ul Mikolowska 72a, PL-40065 Katowice, Poland; [Maszczyk, Adam] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Dept Stat & Methodol, Katowice, Poland; [Wilk, Michal] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Dept Sports Training, Ul Mikolowska 72a, PL-40065 Katowice, Poland								35							Sport Sciences	WOS:000487060000004	38	Article; Article		
J	Romero-Moraleda, Blanca; Del Coso, Juan; Gutierrez-Hellin, Jorge; Ruiz-Moreno, Carlos; Grgic, Jozo; Lara, Beatriz								The Influence of the Menstrual Cycle on Muscle Strength and Power Performance								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				68	1			123	133		10.2478/hukin-2019-0061			AUG 2019	2019	This study aimed to investigate the fluctuations of muscle performance in the Smith machine half-squat exercise during three different phases of the menstrual cycle. Thirteen resistance-trained and eumenorrheic women volunteered to participate in the study (58.6 +/- 7.8 kg, 31.1 +/- 5.5 years). In a pre-experimental test, the half-squat one-repetition maximum (1RM) was measured. Body mass, tympanic temperature and urine concentration of the luteinizing hormone were estimated daily for -30 days to determine the early follicular phase (EFP), the late follicular phase (LFP), and the mid-luteal phase (MLP) of the menstrual cycle. On the second day of each phase, performance of the Smith machine ha l f-squats was assessed using 20, 40, 60 and 80% of one repetition maximum (1RM). In each load, force, velocity, and power output were measured during the concentric phase of the exercise by means of a rotatory encoder. The data were analyzed using one-way repeated measures ANOVA coupled with magnitude-based inferences. Overall, force, velocity and power output were very similar in all menstrual cycle phases with unclear differences in most of the pairwise comparisons and effect sizes >0.2. The results of this investigation suggest that eumenorrheic females have similar muscle strength and power performance in the Smith machine half-squat exercise during the EFP, LFP, and MLP phases of the menstrual cycle.		[Romero-Moraleda, Blanca; Del Coso, Juan; Gutierrez-Hellin, Jorge; Ruiz-Moreno, Carlos; Lara, Beatriz] Camilo Jose Cela Univ, Exercise Physiol Lab, Madrid, Spain; [Grgic, Jozo] Victoria Univ, Inst Hlth & Sport IHES, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Del Coso, Juan] Camilo Jose Cela Univ, C Castillo Alarcon 49, Villafranca Del Castillo 28692, Spain								82							Sport Sciences	WOS:000487060000010	26	Article; Article		
J	Lockie, Robert G.; Balfany, Katherine; Denamur, Jenna K.; Moreno, Matthew R.								A Preliminary Analysis of Relationships between a 1RM Hexagonal Bar Load and Peak Power with the Tactical Task of a Body Drag								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				68	1			157	166		10.2478/hukin-2019-0064			AUG 2019	2019	A critical job task for law enforcement officers that should be influenced by strength is the body drag. This study analyzed relationships between absolute and relative strength measured by a one-repetition maximum hexagonal bar deadlift (1RM HBD), with body drags completed with 74.84 kg and 90.72 kg dummies. Twenty recreationally-trained individuals completed the 1RM HBD in one session, with peak power measured via a linear position transducer. Over two subsequent sessions, participants dragged the 74.84 kg and 90.72 kg dummies with two techniques. The first technique followed Californian standards, where participants wrapped their arms around the dummy and lifted it to standing before timing commenced. In the adapted technique, timing included the initial manipulation of the dummy. Participants dragged the dummy as quickly as possible over a 9.75 m distance. Partial correlations and linear regression (controlling for sex; p < 0.05) analyzed relationships between the HBD and body drags. The standard 74.84 kg body drag correlated with every HBD variable (r = -0.477 to -0.666), and was predicted by the absolute 1RM HBD (r(2) = 0.467). The adapted 74.84 kg drag correlated with all HBD variables (r = -0.535 to 0.754), and was predicted by peak power and the 1RM HBD (r(2) = 0.758). Both 90.72 kg drags correlated with absolute and relative 1RM HBD (r = -0.517 to -0.670). Strength related to all body drags; peak power may be more important for drags with lighter loads. Strength training should be a focus in law enforcement to enhance drag performance.		[Lockie, Robert G.; Balfany, Katherine; Denamur, Jenna K.; Moreno, Matthew R.] Calif State Univ Fullerton, Dept Kinesiol, 800 N State Coll Blvd, Fullerton, CA 92831 USA; [Lockie, Robert G.] Calif State Univ Fullerton, Dept Kinesiol, 800 N State Coll Blvd, Fullerton, CA 92831 USA								24							Sport Sciences	WOS:000487060000013	30	Article; Article		
J	Paoli, Antonio; Cancellara, Pasqualina; Pompeii, Pierluigi; Moro, Tatiana								Ketogenic Diet and Skeletal Muscle Hypertrophy: a Frenemy Relationship?								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				68	1			233	247		10.2478/hukin-2019-0071			AUG 2019	2019	Ketogenic diet (KD) is a nutritional regimen characterized by a high fat and an adequate protein content and a very low carbohydrate level (less than 20 g per day or 5% of total daily energy intake). The insufficient level of carbohydrates forces the body to primarily use fat instead of sugar as a fuel source. Due to its characteristic, KD has often been used to treat metabolic disorders, obesity, cardiovascular disease, and type 2 diabetes. Skeletal muscle constitutes 40% of total body mass and is one of the major sites of glucose disposal. KD is a well-defined approach to induce weight loss, with its role in muscle adaptation and muscle hypertrophy less understood. Considering this lack of knowledge, the aim of this review was to examine the scientific evidence about the effects of KD on muscle hypertrophy. We first described the mechanisms of muscle hypertrophy per se, and secondly, we discussed the characteristics and the metabolic function of KD. Ultimately, we provided the potential mechanism that could explain the influence of KD on skeletal muscle hypertrophy.		[Paoli, Antonio; Cancellara, Pasqualina] Univ Padua, Dept Biomed Sci, Padua, Italy; [Paoli, Antonio] Catholic Univ Murcia, Res Ctr High Performance Sport, UCAM, Murcia 30107, Spain; [Pompeii, Pierluigi] Univ Camerino, Unit Pharmacol, Sch Pharm, Camerino, Italy; [Moro, Tatiana] Univ Texas Med Branch, Sealy Ctr Aging, Galveston, TX 77555 USA; [Moro, Tatiana] Univ Texas Med Branch, Dept Nutr & Metab, Galveston, TX 77555 USA; [Paoli, Antonio] Univ Padua, Dept Biomed Sci, Padua, Italy; [Paoli, Antonio] Catholic Univ Murcia, Res Ctr High Performance Sport, UCAM, Murcia 30107, Spain								32							Sport Sciences	WOS:000487060000020	121	Article; Article		
J	Banda, Daveena S.; Beitzel, Maria M.; Kammerer, Joseph D.; Salazar, Isaac; Lockie, Robert G.								Lower-Body Power Relationships to Linear Speed, Change-of-Direction Speed, and High-Intensity Running Performance in DI Collegiate Women's Basketball Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				68	1			223	232		10.2478/hukin-2019-0067			AUG 2019	2019	Basketball players need to sprint and change direction, and lower-body power (often measured by jump tests) should contribute. How different jumps relate to linear and change-of-direction (COD) speed, and high-intensity running has not been analyzed in Division I (DI) collegiate women's basketballers. Twelve players completed the vertical jump (VJ), two-step approach jump (AppJ), and standing broad jump (SBJ). Average (AvgP) and peak power (PeakP), and PeakP: body mass (P:BM) were derived from VI height; relative SBJ was derived from SBJ distance. Players also completed: 10 m and 3/4 court sprints (linear speed), the pro-agility shuttle (COD speed), and the Yo-Yo Intermittent Recovery Test Level 1 (YYIRT1; high-intensity running). Pearson's correlations (p < 0.05) calculated relationships between the jump and running tests. The AppJ correlated to the 3/4 court sprint and pro-agility shuttle (r = -.663 to -.805). AvgP and PeakP correlated to the 10 m sprint, 3/4 court sprint, and pro-agility shuttle (r = .589-.766). P:BM and relative SBJ correlated with all running tests (linear and COD speed r = -.620 to -.805; YYIRT1 r = .622-.803). The AppJ stresses the stretch-shortening capacities of the legs, and this quality is important for faster linear and COD speed. AvgP and PeakP are influenced by body mass; while larger athletes produce greater power, they also may display slower 10 m sprint and pro-agility shuttle times, and lesser YYIRT1 performance. Strength coaches should ensure players can generate high relative power (i.e. P:BM, relative SBJ) for faster linear and COD speed, and high-intensity running.		[Banda, Daveena S.; Beitzel, Maria M.; Kammerer, Joseph D.; Lockie, Robert G.] Calif State Univ Fullerton, Ctr Sport Performance, Dept Kinesiol, Fullerton, CA 92831 USA; [Kammerer, Joseph D.; Salazar, Isaac] Calif State Univ Fullerton, Strength & Conditioning, Dept Intercollegiate Athlet, Fullerton, CA 92831 USA; [Lockie, Robert G.] Calif State Univ Fullerton, Dept Kinesiol, 800 N State Coll Blvd, Fullerton, CA 92831 USA								33							Sport Sciences	WOS:000487060000019	31	Article; Article		
J	Freitas, Tomas T.; Pereira, Lucas A.; Alcaraz, Pedro E.; Arruda, Ademir F. S.; Guerriero, Aristide; Azevedo, Paulo H. S. M.; Loturco, Irineu								Influence of Strength and Power Capacity on Change of Direction Speed and Deficit in Elite Team-Sport Athletes								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				68	1			167	176		10.2478/hukin-2019-0069			AUG 2019	2019	The aim of the present study was to investigate the influence of maximum strength and power levels on change of direction (COD) ability and deficit in elite soccer and rugby players. Seventy-eight elite athletes (soccer, n = 46; rugby, n = 32) performed the following assessments: squat and countermovement jumps (SJ and CMJ), 1 repetition-maximum in the half-squat exercise (HS 1RM), peak power (PP) in the jump-squat exercise, and 20-m linear sprint and Zigzag COD tests. Utilizing the median split analysis, athletes were divided into two groups according to their HS/RM and PP JS (e.g., higher and lower HS/RM and higher and lower PP JS). The magnitude-based inference method was used to analyze the differences between groups in the physical performance tests. Athletes in the high strength and power groups outperformed their weaker and less powerful counterparts in all speed and power measurements (i.e., 5-, 10-, and 20-m sprint velocity, Zigzag COD speed, and CMJ and SJ height). In contrast, stronger and more powerful athletes displayed greater COD deficits. The present data indicate that players with superior strength-power capacity tend to be less efficient at changing direction, relative to maximum sprinting speed, despite being faster in linear trajectories. From these results, it appears that current strength and power training practices in team-sports are potentially not the "most appropriate" to increase the aptitude of a given athlete to efficiently utilize his/her neuromuscular abilities during COD maneuvers. Nevertheless, it remains unknown whether more multifaceted training programs are effective in decreasing COD deficits.		[Freitas, Tomas T.; Alcaraz, Pedro E.] Catholic Univ Murcia, Res Ctr High Performance Sport, Murcia, Spain; [Freitas, Tomas T.; Pereira, Lucas A.; Loturco, Irineu] NAR Nucleus High Performance Sport, Av Padre Jose Maria 555, BR-04753060 Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil; [Alcaraz, Pedro E.] Catholic Univ Murcia, Fac Sport Sci, Murcia, Spain; [Arruda, Ademir F. S.; Guerriero, Aristide] Brazilian Rugby Confederat, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Freitas, Tomas T.; Pereira, Lucas A.; Azevedo, Paulo H. S. M.; Loturco, Irineu] Univ Fed Sao Paulo, Dept Human Movement Sci, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Loturco, Irineu] Univ South Wales, Pontypridd, M Glam, Wales; [Loturco, Irineu] NAR Nucleus High Performance Sport, Av Padre Jose Maria 555, BR-04753060 Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil								68							Sport Sciences	WOS:000487060000014	45	Article; Article		
J	Rangel, Wellington; Ugrinowitsch, Carlos; Lamas, Leonardo								Basketball players' versatility: Assessing the diversity of tactical roles								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				14	4			552	561		10.1177/1747954119859683			AUG 2019	2019	Basketball has seen an increase in the number of players who perform multiple tactical roles. Therefore, the aim of the study was twofold: (i) to define a method to characterize basketball players as versatile or specialists, based on 13 game-related statistics; (ii) to evaluate versatile-specialist tendencies in a professional national league. A predictive model was proposed using the Automated Machine Learning (AutoML) of the H2O framework. The model was tested using data from nine seasons (2008-2017) from the Brazilian national league (NBL), encompassing 1497 players' observations, achieving an accuracy of 70.81%. We classified players as versatile or specialist and observed the following: (i) the number of versatile players has grown over the nine seasons period (from 25.16% to 47.85%), with Small Forward and Power Forward players presenting the fastest growth in versatility; (ii) NBL teams had similar proportions of versatile and specialist players; (iii) for the best players in the NBL (All-Star game players), there was a trend toward a higher number of versatile players (58.33%) compared to specialist ones. In conclusion, the method was effective in indicating the players' degree of versatility and demonstrated a tendency of increasing versatility over the analyzed seasons. In practice, it may support the assessment of player's profile and contribute for coaches' strategic decisions.		[Rangel, Wellington; Lamas, Leonardo] Univ Brasilia, Fac Educ Fis, Brasilia, DF, Brazil; [Ugrinowitsch, Carlos] Univ Sao Paulo, Escola Educ Fis & Esporte, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Lamas, Leonardo] Univ Brasilia, Fac Phys Educ, LADES, Darcy Ribeiro Campus, Brasilia, DF, Brazil								28							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000479122900013	34	Article; Article		
J	Fernandez-Navarro, Javier; Fradua, Luis; Zubillaga, Asier; McRobert, Allistair P.								Evaluating the effectiveness of styles of play in elite soccer								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				14	4			514	527		10.1177/1747954119855361			AUG 2019	2019	The aim of this study was to evaluate the effectiveness of styles of play in soccer and the influence of contextual variables (i.e. match status, venue and quality of opposition). Team possessions (n = 68,766) from the 380 matches of the 2015-2016 English Premier League season were collected for this study. The Possession Effectiveness Index, based on Expected Goals and Ball Movement Points metrics, was used to measure the effectiveness of team possessions. Linear mixed models were applied to analyse the influence of contextual variables on the effectiveness score for each style. Results showed that the effectiveness of Direct Play, Counterattack, Maintenance and Crossing significantly increased when teams were winning by two or more goals. Counterattack increased its effectiveness when teams were winning by one goal and reduced its effectiveness when losing by one goal. The effectiveness of Direct Play increased when losing by two goals or more. Playing away negatively affected the effectiveness of Direct Play, Maintenance and High Pressure. In addition, playing against a stronger opposition reduced the effectiveness of all styles of play. The results suggest that the effectiveness of styles of play changes under specific circumstances and that not all contextual variables affect them in the same way.		[Fernandez-Navarro, Javier; Fradua, Luis] Univ Granada, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Carretera Alfacar S-N, E-18071 Granada, Spain; [Zubillaga, Asier] Univ Basque Country, UPV EHU, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Vitoria, Spain; [McRobert, Allistair P.] Liverpool John Moores Univ, Res Inst Sport & Exercise Sci, Football Exchange, Liverpool, Merseyside, England; [Fernandez-Navarro, Javier] Univ Granada, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Carretera Alfacar S-N, E-18071 Granada, Spain								39							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000479122900010	54	Article; Article		
J	Seron, Bruna Barboza; Oliveira de Carvalho, Emanuel Messias; Modesto, Everaldo Lambert; de Almeida, Eloise Werle; Franzoi de Moraes, Solange Marta; Greguol, Marcia								Does the type of disability influence salivary cortisol concentrations of athletes in official wheelchair basketball games?								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				14	4			507	513		10.1177/1747954119850301			AUG 2019	2019	The objective of this work is to describe and compare the behavior of cortisol in official wheelchair basketball matches according to the type of disability. This is a cross-sectional study in which 34 elite wheelchair basketball athletes were divided into three groups, based on disability (spinal cord injury, poliomyelitis, and amputation). Cortisol concentration (baseline, pre-, and post-game) and heart rate were analyzed in five official games. Heart rate data were stratified according to the Edwards method. Significant differences were observed in pre- and post-cortisol concentrations only for the amputated group. No significant correlations were found between cortisol variation and intensity ranges. Athletes with neurological damage were not responsive to wheelchair basketball in relation to salivary cortisol concentrations. The game intensity cannot be verified by the biomarker cortisol for all types of disabilities. It is necessary to pay attention to the energy availability for athletes with neurological injuries during the game and post-game recovery.		[Seron, Bruna Barboza] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Dept Phys Educ, Florianopolis, SC, Brazil; [Oliveira de Carvalho, Emanuel Messias; Modesto, Everaldo Lambert; de Almeida, Eloise Werle; Greguol, Marcia] Univ Estadual Londrina, Dept Sports Sci, Londrin, Londrina, Brazil; [Franzoi de Moraes, Solange Marta] Univ Estadual Maringa, Dept Physiol Sci, Maringi, Brazil; [Seron, Bruna Barboza] R Eng Agron Andrei Cristian Ferreira S-N, BR-88040900 Florianopolis, SC, Brazil								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000479122900009	37	Article; Article		
J	Pulido, Juan J.; Sanchez-Oliva, David; Silva, Marlene N.; Palmeira, Antonio L.; Garcia-Calvo, Tomas								Development and preliminary validation of the Coach Interpersonal Style Observational System								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				14	4			471	479		10.1177/1747954119858965			AUG 2019	2019	Objectives The aim of this study was to design and develop a multidimensional observational coding system (Coach Interpersonal Style Observational System) to assess coaches' interpersonal style adopted during training sessions and matches. Equipment and methods Content validity was established by 11 experts (with proven knowledge and experience in sport science, motivational psychology, and coaching) using qualitative (e.g. ease of comprehension, utility, and adequacy of examples) and quantitative (category scores) approaches. Coders were trained to test inter- and intra-rater reliability. Results Qualitative analyses revealed global positive assessment. Experts' category scores were very high. After coder training, inter- and intra-rater reliability scores were acceptable. Discriminant validity was tested through the pilot application to eight soccer coaches. Overall, the results support the preliminary reliability and validity of an instrument to analyze interpersonal coach behavior.		[Pulido, Juan J.; Garcia-Calvo, Tomas] Univ Extremadura, Fac Sport Sci, Avda Univ S-N, Caceres 10003, Spain; [Sanchez-Oliva, David] Univ Cadiz, Fac Educ Sci, Cadiz, Spain; [Silva, Marlene N.] Univ Lisbon, Fac Human Kinet, Lisbon, Portugal; [Palmeira, Antonio L.] Univ Lusofona Humanidades & Tecnol, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Lisbon, Portugal; [Pulido, Juan J.] Univ Extremadura, Fac Sport Sci, Avda Univ S-N, Caceres 10003, Spain								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000479122900005	40	Article; Article		
J	Davis, Louise; Stenling, Andreas; Gustafsson, Henrik; Appleby, Ralph; Davis, Paul								Reducing the risk of athlete burnout: Psychosocial, sociocultural, and individual considerations for coaches								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				14	4			444	452		10.1177/1747954119861076			AUG 2019	2019	Past research suggests that athletes' relationships with their coach can act as a risk factor in the development of burnout. Coaching practice may be enhanced through understanding the multidimensional factors that can augment the associations between coach-athlete relationship quality and athlete burnout. The present study explored both individual difference characteristics (gender, age, and sport level) and sociocultural factors (sport type) as moderators of this relationship. Our findings show statistically significant interaction effects for gender and age. Coaches and practitioners working with younger athletes and male performers in particular, are advised to work with strategies aiming to build relationships and reduce the risk of burnout.		[Davis, Louise; Stenling, Andreas; Davis, Paul] Umea Univ, Dept Psychol, Umea, Sweden; [Stenling, Andreas] Univ Gothenburg, Dept Psychol, Gothenburg, Sweden; [Stenling, Andreas] Univ Otago, Dept Psychol, Dunedin, New Zealand; [Gustafsson, Henrik] Karlstad Univ, Fac Arts & Social Sci, Sweden & Norwegian Sch Sport Sci, Karlstad, Norway; [Appleby, Ralph] Northumbria Univ, Dept Sport Exercise & Rehabil, Newcastle Upon Tyne, Tyne & Wear, England; [Davis, Louise] Umea Univ, Dept Psychol, Umea, Sweden								26							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000479122900002	35	Article; Article		
J	Kim, Inwoo; Lee, Keunchul; Kang, Sangwook								The relationship between passion for coaching and the coaches' interpersonal behaviors: The mediating role of coaches' perception of the relationship quality with athletes								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				14	4			463	470		10.1177/1747954119853104			AUG 2019	2019	According to Self-Determination Theory, sports coaches' autonomy-supportive behaviors positively influence athletes' different aspects, such as motivation, well-being, and performance, while controlling behaviors of coaches tend to diminish such variables. Although many researchers agree with that autonomy-supportive coaching behaviors should be promoted rather than controlling style, there is scarce research investigating the antecedents of such behavioral styles. The aim of this study was to examine a model of potential determinants of coaches' interpersonal behaviors by investigating the relationship between passion for coaching and their behavioral styles and verifying the mediating role of coaches' perceived relationship quality with their athletes. A total of 172 coaches participated in the survey, and data sets were analyzed using structural model analysis. Results revealed that coaches' harmonious passion positively predicted autonomy-supportive behaviors but negatively predicted controlling behaviors, and these pathways were mediated by coaches' perception of the relationship with their athletes. The implications for coaches and researchers from those results are discussed.		[Kim, Inwoo; Kang, Sangwook] Seoul Natl Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Seoul, South Korea; [Lee, Keunchul] Changwon Natl Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Gyeongsangnam Do, South Korea; [Lee, Keunchul] Changwon Natl Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Gyeongsangnam Do, South Korea								18							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000479122900004	38	Article; Article		
J	Samuel, Roy David; Galily, Yair; Guy, Or; Sharoni, Elad; Tenenbaum, Gershon								A decision-making simulator for soccer referees								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				14	4			480	489		10.1177/1747954119858696			AUG 2019	2019	Decision-making is a critical aspect of soccer referees' performance. Yet current training methods that simulate the refereeing task are limited. Skilled soccer referees (N = 22, M age = 27.14 years, SD = 6.40) were tested on a new decision-making simulator during the active part of the season. They ran on a treadmill for 60 min at varying paces while watching two video sections depicting real matches, in context and in mixed order, and called their match decisions out loud. They completed pre- and post-test assessments of their feelings and perceived exertion, and a post-test assessment of their performance. The referees reported positive feelings prior to and following the test, and rated their performance favourably. They felt the simulator was moderately representative of a real match, and their perceived exertion increased progressively during the test. Decision accuracy levels were higher for simple decisions, such as out of play (73.81%), than for careless fouls (62.86%) or yellow/red cards (25.97%). Decision accuracy levels for yellow/red cards decisions were significantly higher in the in-context section (28.91%) than in the mixed section (20.83%). Decision accuracy levels peaked in the third quarter and decreased during the final quarter. Self-control during the test correlated moderately with overall accuracy. Careless foul decision accuracy was on par with previous studies, supporting the simulator's validity. The findings support the use of the simulator as a potentially innovative method for training referees in sequential decision-making.		[Samuel, Roy David] Kibbutz Coll Educ Technol & Arts, Dept Phys Educ & Movement, Tel Aviv, Israel; [Samuel, Roy David; Galily, Yair; Guy, Or; Sharoni, Elad; Tenenbaum, Gershon] Interdisciplinary Ctr IDC, Baruch Hicher Sch Psychol, Herzliyya, Israel; [Galily, Yair] Interdisciplinary Ctr IDC, Sammy Ofer Sch Commun, Head Sport Media & Soc SMS Res Lab, Herzliyya, Israel; [Samuel, Roy David] Kibbutz Coll Educ Technol & Arts, Dept Phys Educ & Movement, Tel Aviv, Israel								33							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000479122900006	33	Article; Article		
J	Humphreys, Brad R.; Miceli, Thomas J.								The Peculiar Preferences of Sports Fans: Toward a Preference-Based Motivation for the Uncertainty of Outcome Hypothesis								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				20	6			782	796		10.1177/1527002518817590			AUG 2019	2019	The uncertainty of outcome hypothesis (UOH) informs economic models of fan attendance decisions, team revenue generation, and league outcomes. Despite this importance, little attention has been paid to the role of consumer preferences in motivating the UOH. We develop consumer choice models that generate predictions consistent with the UOH. These models contain utility functions with diminishing marginal utility in team success, or Leontief preferences for success, and assume that league decisions are based on maximization of aggregate welfare. The most general specification shows that when the population contains both partisan and nonpartisan fans, perfect uncertainty of outcome is optimal.		[Humphreys, Brad R.] West Virginia Univ, Coll Business & Econ, Dept Econ, Morgantown, WV USA; [Miceli, Thomas J.] Univ Connecticut, Dept Econ, 341 Mansfield Rd, Storrs, CT 06269 USA; [Miceli, Thomas J.] Univ Connecticut, Dept Econ, 341 Mansfield Rd, Storrs, CT 06269 USA								11							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000485270900002	19	Article; Article		
J	Brave, Scott A.; Roberts, Kevin A.								The Competitive Effects of Performance-Enhancing Drugs: MLB in the Posttesting Era								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				20	6			747	781		10.1177/1527002518817584			AUG 2019	2019	Using estimates of Major League Baseball (MLB) financials from Forbes, we conduct a cost-benefit analysis of performance-enhancing drug (PED) testing. Player PED suspensions are shown to have lowered franchise values by statistically and economically significant margins through negative impacts on teams' nongate revenues and expected future profit growth. Testing, however, also increased competitive balance through reductions in player costs which compressed the distribution of team wins per dollar. Finally, we estimate the number of PED suspensions per season which balances the costs and benefits of testing at the league and team levels and compare it to MLB's current policy.		[Brave, Scott A.] Fed Reserve Bank Chicago, Econ Res Dept, Chicago, IL USA; [Roberts, Kevin A.] Duke Univ, Econ, Durham, NC USA; [Brave, Scott A.] Fed Reserve Bank Chicago, 230 S LaSalle St, Chicago, IL 60604 USA								3							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000485270900001	27	Article; Article		
J	Morris, Kirstin S.; Jenkins, David G.; Osborne, Mark A.; Rynne, Steven B.; Shephard, Megan E.; Skinner, Tina L.								The role of the upper and lower limbs in front crawl swimming: The thoughts and practices of expert high-performance swimming coaches								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				14	5			629	638	1747954119866358	10.1177/1747954119866358			OCT 2019	2019	The perceptions of high-performance swimming coaches regarding the relative contribution of the upper and lower limbs are crucial in optimising athletic performance through subsequent prescription of training. Problematically, examination of these perspectives is lacking. To develop knowledge in this area, perceptions regarding the upper and lower limb velocity and metabolic contributions and reasoning surrounding whole body, arms-only and legs-only training prescription (referred to as swim, pull and kick, respectively) were garnered from seven male expert swimming coaches. The semi-structured interviews were transcribed verbatim by the lead researcher. Thematically analysed through open and axial-coding, results revealed that all coaches believed the upper limbs were the primary velocity generators but placed great importance on having well-conditioned muscles of the lower limbs. All coaches identified multiple interrelated parameters contributing to velocity generation and metabolic cost. In a typical training week, coaches allocate, on average, 58% (40-85%), 19% (0-30%) and 22% (10-40%) of the total training volume to swim, pull and kick training, respectively. All training prescription was based on anecdotal evidence and personal experience. Considering the variability in training allocation reported by these high-performance coaches, sport scientists and developmental coaches are encouraged to understand how factors such as the distance specialisation of the swimmers, injury status, stroke technique and physiological conditioning status of the upper and lower limb muscles influence the prescription of swim, pull and kick training within a typical training season.		[Morris, Kirstin S.; Jenkins, David G.; Osborne, Mark A.; Rynne, Steven B.; Shephard, Megan E.; Skinner, Tina L.] Univ Queensland, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [Morris, Kirstin S.; Shephard, Megan E.] Queensland Acad Sport, Qld Sport & Athlet Ctr Queensland, Level 1 Western Stand,468 Kessels Rd, Nathan, Qld 4111, Australia; [Osborne, Mark A.] Swimming Australia Ltd, Sch Human Movement & Nutr Sci, Sunnybank, Qld, Australia; [Morris, Kirstin S.] Queensland Acad Sport, Qld Sport & Athlet Ctr Queensland, Level 1 Western Stand,468 Kessels Rd, Nathan, Qld 4111, Australia								8							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000479384800001	42	Article; Article		
J	Lewis, Amy R.; Phillips, Elissa J.; Robertson, William S. P.; Grimshaw, Paul N.; Portus, Marc; Winter, Joseph								A practical assessment of wheelchair racing performance kinetics using accelerometers								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				20	8			1001	1014		10.1080/14763141.2019.1634136			NOV 17 2021	2021	Due to the detrimental influence of unnecessary mass on performance, racing wheelchair instrumentation used in both competition assessment and research is currently limited. Attaining key kinetic parameters of propulsion can enhance technique and provide athletes with a competitive advantage. This research examined the plausibility of inertial measurement units (IMUs) to estimate propulsion forces, during a simulated wheelchair race start and training. Start propulsion data calculated from an IMU system was compared to reference force plate data; steady state motion data was compared with existing literature. Some agreement in kinetic parameters between IMU data was observed under steady state motion, with data from athletes following a linear force-velocity relationship. In this context, it is important to identify that this cannot be directly compared to the existing literature due to the different methods of force measurement and the lack of data for similar force measurements using IMUs. IMUs were ineffective when used with wheelchairs having spoked wheels. Performance was best for measurements in the direction of motion. Although exact agreement was not observed, the IMU can provide an effective tool in the in-field assessment of propulsion kinetics.		[Lewis, Amy R.; Robertson, William S. P.; Grimshaw, Paul N.] Univ Adelaide, Fac Engn Comp & Math Sci, Sch Mech Engn, Adelaide, SA, Australia; [Lewis, Amy R.; Phillips, Elissa J.; Portus, Marc] Australian Inst Sport, Movement Sci, Bruce, ACT, Australia; [Winter, Joseph] Australian Inst Sport, Innovat Res & Dev, Bruce, ACT, Australia; [Lewis, Amy R.] Univ Adelaide, Fac Engn Comp & Math Sci, Sch Mech Engn, Adelaide, SA, Australia; [Lewis, Amy R.] Australian Inst Sport, Movement Sci, Bruce, ACT, Australia								4							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000479779600001	34	Article; Article		
J	Pasic, Nicholas; Giffin, J. Robert; Degen, Ryan M.								Practice patterns for the treatment of acute proximal hamstring ruptures								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				48	1			116	122		10.1080/00913847.2019.1645576			JAN 2 2020	2020	Objective: Proximal ischial hamstring avulsion injuries are relatively uncommon. As such, the management of these injuries is often highly variable. Consensus agreement is lacking for the indications for repair, along with the operative technique, and post-operative rehabilitation. The purpose of this study was to survey surgeons who treat proximal hamstring avulsion injuries to identify current trends in the management of this injury. Methods: After IRB approval, a 46-question cross-sectional survey was distributed using a secure electronic survey portal. The survey sought to determine surgeon experience, diagnostic preferences, treatment patterns, surgical indications/technique, perceived patient outcomes, surgical complications, as well as post-operative management and rehab protocols. Surveys were completed electronically and anonymously, with invitations distributed to members of the American Orthopedic Society for Sports Medicine (AOSSM) and Arthroscopy Association of Canada (AAC). Results: A total of 108 surgeons who manage proximal hamstring injuries completed the survey. Most respondents (77%) treat one to five of these injuries per year. MRI was the preferred imaging modality to confirm diagnosis. Despite 98% of respondents indicating that there was a role for surgical management of proximal hamstring avulsions, operative treatment was reportedly undertaken in only 50% of cases seen by each respondent. The top three reported surgical indications were: number of tendons involved (most important factor = 42%, second most = 26%, third most = 13%), amount of tendon retraction (28%, 41%, 16%), and patient activity level (16%, 18%, 24%). Conclusion: Based on the practice patterns of the surgeons who completed the survey, there is continued disparity in the management of proximal hamstring avulsions. A lack of agreement exists with regards to surgical indications, operative technique, and post-operative protocols. Most striking is the rate of non-operative treatment and perceived rate of poor outcomes within this cohort. Future research should focus on objective evaluation of non-operative management, and additional variables involved in surgical treatment and post-operative rehabilitation.		[Pasic, Nicholas; Giffin, J. Robert; Degen, Ryan M.] Schulich Sch Med & Dent, Dept Surg, London, ON, Canada; [Pasic, Nicholas; Giffin, J. Robert; Degen, Ryan M.] Western Univ, Fowler Kennedy Sport Med Clin, 3M Ctr 1151 Richmond St, London, ON N5X 4G8, Canada; [Pasic, Nicholas] Western Univ, Fowler Kennedy Sport Med Clin, 3M Ctr 1151 Richmond St, London, ON N5X 4G8, Canada								24							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000479366100001	28	Article; Article		
J	Du, Tanghuizi; Yanai, Toshimasa								Critical scapula motions for preventing subacromial impingement in fully-tethered front-crawl swimming								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				21	2			121	141		10.1080/14763141.2019.1640277			FEB 7 2022	2022	The aims were to quantitatively describe the coordinated motions of the scapula and humerus during fully tethered front-crawl strokes and to test the hypothesis that scapular motion functions to reduce the risk of subacromial compression. An electromagnetic tracking device was used to record the kinematics of the thorax, humerus, and scapula on the dominant side in 17 collegiate swimmers. Because evidence suggests that compressive force develops under the coracoacromial arch when the arm elevated above 90o of arm elevation is maximally internally rotated, such shoulder configurations were measured for each participant. A series of scapulohumeral angles measured with this procedure were compared with the corresponding angles exhibited during fully tethered front-crawl swimming to identify the scapulohumeral angles indicative of subacromial compression. Additional comparison was performed without taking the scapular motion into account. Scapulohumeral angles indicative of subacromial compression were observed in 15 participants, accounting for 7.7 +/- 7.1% of stroke cycle time. This duration was significantly less than the corresponding duration identified without having taken the scapular motion into account (22.6 +/- 13.8% of stroke cycle time). The difference was due primarily to the unique movements of the scapular to accommodate demands imposed by stroke motions, and this supported the hypothesis.		[Du, Tanghuizi; Yanai, Toshimasa] Waseda Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Tokorozawa, Saitama, Japan; [Yanai, Toshimasa] Waseda Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Tokorozawa, Saitama, Japan								1							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000479367500001	40	Article; Article		
J	Kahan, David; Lorenz, Kent Arnold								Physical Activity for Lent: Changes in and Associations Between Religiosity, Enjoyment, Motivation, and Physical Activity								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				90	4			507	516		10.1080/02701367.2019.1627275			OCT 2 2019	2019	Purpose: Given the unequal distribution of physical activity (PA) opportunities across middle schools, alternative options for promoting it should be explored. Faith-based schools are positioned to offer religious-themed PA interventions, yet few have been reported. We replicated previous research by investigating the effects of the Physical Activity for Lent (PAL) program on change in step count (Delta PA) and its associations with religiosity, enjoyment, and motivation (four subscales). Method: Over the 6-week Lenten season, three Catholic middle schools' students (n = 128) participated in a randomly allocated controlled crossover trial of a pedometer-based virtual journey that followed Jesus's life path. We used the Reliable Change Index (RCI), general linear mixed models, and logistic regression to identify changes (pre- to post-Lent) in the independent variables, and their association with Delta PA overall and of being in the highest Delta PA tertile. Results: Between 11.6% (religiosity) and 34.7% (external regulation) of participants' scores changed. School (School 3 > Schools 1 and 2 by similar to 2,400 steps/day, p < .001) and grade (6th grade > 7th and 8th grades by similar to 2,500 steps/day, p < .001) - but not religiosity, enjoyment, or motivation - were significant predictors of Delta PA. As RCI for intrinsic motivation and identified regulation increased, students were more (OR = 2.49) and less (OR = 0.74) likely, respectively, to be in the high Delta PA tertile. Conclusion: Desirable Delta PA was situational (i.e., school, grade) and highest Delta PA tertile was associated with autonomous motivation. Faith-based PA interventions may need to include additional components to realize even greater gains.		[Kahan, David] San Diego State Univ, San Diego, CA 92182 USA; [Lorenz, Kent Arnold] San Francisco State Univ, San Francisco, CA 94132 USA; [Kahan, David] San Diego State Univ, Sch Exercise & Nutr Sci, ENS Bldg 315,5500 Campanile Dr, San Diego, CA 92182 USA								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000478664700001	42	Article; Article		
J	Jalalvand, Mojtaba; Bahram, Abbas; Daneshfar, Afkham; Arsham, Saeed								The Effect of Gradual Self-Control of Task Difficulty and Feedback on Learning Golf Putting								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				90	4			429	439		10.1080/02701367.2019.1612510			OCT 2 2019	2019	Purpose: This study aimed to examine the effect of gradual self-control of task difficulty and feedback on accuracy and movement pattern of the golf putting sport skill. Method: Sixty students were quasi-randomly assigned to four groups under a varying combination of the two factors of task difficulty control (self-controlled or yoked) and feedback control (self-controlled or yoked). The participants in the two groups (dual-factor gradual self-control and self-controlled task difficulty group) that granted control over task difficulty in the acquisition phase were told they could choose any of the pre-set distances from the target. All groups were given 100% feedback in the first half of the acquisition phase, but the participants in the two groups (dual-factor gradual self-control group and self-controlled feedback) that could control their feedback were told that in the second half of the acquisition phase they would be able to ask for feedback when needed. The practice schedule of each member of the dual-factor gradual self-control group was used as a basis to plan the practice of predetermined distances and feedback presentation to the corresponding participants in the yoked conditions. Results: ANOVA with repeated measures showed that the practice method involving gradual self-control of two factors had a positive impact on accuracy and movement pattern of golf putting in the retention and transfer tests compared to other methods (p(s) < .05). Conclusion: The advantages of self-control practice presumably come from better adjustment of challenge points by the learner in the course of the practice.		[Jalalvand, Mojtaba; Bahram, Abbas; Arsham, Saeed] Kharazmi Univ, Tehran, Iran; [Daneshfar, Afkham] Alzahra Univ, Tehran, Iran; [Jalalvand, Mojtaba] Kharazmi Univ, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Tehran, Iran								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000477199400001	32	Article; Article		
J	Babington, Michael; Goerg, Sebastian J.; Kitchens, Carl								Do Tournaments With Superstars Encourage or Discourage Competition?								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				21	1			44	63	1527002519859405	10.1177/1527002519859405			JAN 2020	2020	To test and replicate the superstar effect reported by Brown, we empirically study contests where a single entrant has an exogenously higher probability of winning. Unlike the previous literature, we test for the presence of the superstar effect in several new contexts. Ultimately, we collect and explore data from four sources: men's and women's professional golf, and men's and women's professional alpine skiing. Empirically, we find little robust evidence of the superstar effect in any of our data sets. In our replication exercise, we approximate the findings of Brown; however, we cannot reject the null that the presence of a superstar has no impact on high ranked competitors. In our new settings, we cannot reject the null that superstars have no influence on the performances of highly ranked competitors.		[Babington, Michael; Kitchens, Carl] Florida State Univ, Dept Econ, 279 Bellamy Bldg, Tallahassee, FL 32306 USA; [Goerg, Sebastian J.] Tech Univ Munich, TUMCS Biotechnol & Sustainabil, Econ, Munich, Germany; [Kitchens, Carl] Natl Bur Econ Res, Cambridge, MA 02138 USA; [Kitchens, Carl] Florida State Univ, Dept Econ, 279 Bellamy Bldg, Tallahassee, FL 32306 USA								12							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000477083000001	51	Article; Article		
J	Pind, Rasmus; Mooses, Kerli; Suvi, Silva; Purge, Priit; Viru, Mehis; Pehme, Ando; Kaasik, Priit; Mooses, Martin								Better Economy on Indoor Track Compared to Treadmill Running With 1% Inclination								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				90	4			470	478		10.1080/02701367.2019.1618784			OCT 2 2019	2019	Purpose: The purpose of this study was to investigate the differences in metabolic responses between the track and the treadmill (1% inclination) running. The latter is recommended for use in laboratory settings to mimic outdoor running. Method: Seventeen male endurance athletes (mean 25.8, s = 3.8 years) performed 4-min running bouts on an indoor track and the treadmill. Results: At all speeds (11, 13, and 15 km center dot h(-1)) athletes showed better economy on the track running compared to the treadmill expressed as oxygen (7.9%, 5.2%, and 2.8%) and caloric (7.0%, 5.3%, and 2.6%) unit cost. Rating of perceived exertion was evaluated substantially higher at all speeds on the treadmill (F(1,16) = 31.45, p < .001, eta(2)(p) = .663) compared to running on the track. Participants presented lower heart rate (F(1,16) = 13.74, p = .002, eta(2)(p )= .462) on the track at the speed of 11 and 13 km center dot h(-1) compared to the treadmill, but not at 15 km center dot h(-1) (p = .021). Conclusions: We conclude that constant inclination (i.e.. 1%) during the treadmill test might not be suitable to reproduce comparable effort to running on the track; rather, there is an optimal treadmill inclination for different intensities to reproduce similar effort compared to the track running.		[Pind, Rasmus; Mooses, Kerli; Suvi, Silva; Purge, Priit; Viru, Mehis; Pehme, Ando; Kaasik, Priit; Mooses, Martin] Univ Tartu, Tartu, Estonia; [Mooses, Martin] Univ Tartu, Inst Sport Sci & Physiotherapy, Ujula 4, EE-51008 Tartu, Estonia								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000478406700001	31	Article; Article		
J	Kahan, David; McKenzie, Thomas L.								California Districts and Schools Underutilize Websites to Demonstrate Compliance to a Physical Education Lawsuit								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				90	4			712	719		10.1080/02701367.2019.1623855			OCT 2 2019	2019	Purpose: Quality physical education (PE) reaches many objectives (e.g., knowledge, physical fitness, and physical skills) and could provide at least half the dose of recommended daily physical activity for youths if their opportunity to learn is provided according to national professional recommendations (min/week) and related state mandates. A 2015 California class-action lawsuit required affected schools to post data indicating they scheduled PE time meeting the state mandate of 200 min per 10-day period. The extent to which schools posted PE schedules on their websites and demographic factors related to their compliance was investigated in this study. Method: We performed a quantitative, cross-sectional content analysis of the websites of 37 school districts plus a random sample of 860 elementary schools in them. Z tests were used to analyze frequencies/proportions and associations among demographic (e.g., Hispanic enrollment, PE specialist) and PE schedule variables (e.g., schools meeting state-mandated PE time). Results: Twenty-two districts (59.4%) had websites with >= 1 page/document related to PE opportunities. Only 11% of schools posted PE schedules, an event that was associated with employing a PE specialist (p = .01). Of schools posting schedules, 68% specified a PE volume that met the state mandate. Meeting the mandate was independently associated with enrolling a minority of Hispanic students (p = .02). Conclusion: Websites can provide information about the importance/occurrence of PE; however, schools in the lawsuit did not use the potential of their websites to inform constituents either about the lawsuit or their PE programs. Non-compliant schools should adjust PE schedules to meet statutory requirements.		[Kahan, David; McKenzie, Thomas L.] San Diego State Univ, San Diego, CA 92182 USA; [Kahan, David] San Diego State Univ, Sch Exercise & Nutr Sci, ENS Bldg 315,5500 Campanile Dr, San Diego, CA 92182 USA								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000478403800001	35	Article; Article		
J	Miller, Matthew C.; Fink, Philip W.; Macdermid, Paul W.; Stannard, Stephen R.								Quantification of brake data acquired with a brake power meter during simulated cross-country mountain bike racing								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				18	4			343	353		10.1080/14763141.2017.1409257			JUL 4 2019	2019	There is currently a dearth of information describing cycling performance outside of propulsive and physiological variables. The aim of the present study was to utilise a brake power meter to quantify braking during a multi-lap cross-country mountain bike time trial and to determine how braking affects performance. A significant negative association was determined between lap time and brake power (800.8 +/- 216.4W, mean +/- SD; r=-0.446; p<0.05), while the time spent braking (28.0 +/- 6.4 s) was positively associated with lap time (314.3 +/- 37.9 s; r=0.477; p<0.05). Despite propulsive power decreasing after the first lap (p<0.05), lap time remained unchanged (p>0.05) which was attributed to decreased brake work (p<0.05) and brake time (p<0.05) in both the front and rear brakes by the final lap. A multiple regression model incorporating braking and propulsion was able to explain more of the variance in lap time (r(2)=0.935) than propulsion alone (r(2)=0.826). The present study highlights that riders' braking contributes to mountain bike performance. As riders repeat a cross-country mountain bike track, they are able to change braking, which in turn can counterbalance a reduction in power output. Further research is required to understand braking better.		[Miller, Matthew C.; Fink, Philip W.; Macdermid, Paul W.; Stannard, Stephen R.] Massey Univ, Sch Sport & Exercise, Palmerston North, New Zealand; [Miller, Matthew C.] Massey Univ, Sch Sport & Exercise, Palmerston North, New Zealand								2							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000476553100001	22	Article; Article		
J	Papic, Christopher; Sinclair, Peter; Fornusek, Che; Sanders, Ross								The effect of auditory stimulus training on swimming start reaction time								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				18	4			378	389		10.1080/14763141.2017.1409260			JUL 4 2019	2019	Task-specific auditory training can improve sensorimotor processing times of the auditory reaction time (RT). The majority of competitive swimmers do not conduct habitual start training with the electronic horn used to commence a race. We examined the effect of four week dive training interventions on RT and block time (BT) of 10 male adolescent swimmers (age 14.0 +/- 1.4years): dive training with auditory components (speaker and electronic horn) (n=5) and dive training without auditory components (n=5). Auditory stimulus dive training significantly reduced swimming start RT, compared with dive training without auditory components (p<0.01), with a group mean RT reduction of 13 +/- 9ms. Four of the five swimmers that received auditory stimulus training showed medium to large effect size reductions in RT (d=0.74; 1.32; 1.40; 1.81). No significant changes to swimmers' BTs were evident in either dive training intervention. The adolescent swimmers' results were compared against six male elite swimmers (age 19.8 +/- 1.0years). The elite swimmers had significantly shorter BTs (p<0.05) but no significant difference in RTs. Auditory stimulus dive training should be explored further as a mechanism for improving swimming start performance in elite swimmers who have pre-established optimal BTs.		[Papic, Christopher; Sinclair, Peter; Fornusek, Che; Sanders, Ross] Univ Sydney, Discipline Exercise & Sport Sci, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Papic, Christopher] Univ Sydney, Discipline Exercise & Sport Sci, Sydney, NSW, Australia								14							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000476553100004	26	Article; Article		
J	Fleron, Martin Kokholm; Ubbesen, Niels Christian Hauerbach; Battistella, Francesco; Dejtiar, David Leandro; Oliveira, Anderson Souza								Accuracy between optical and inertial motion capture systems for assessing trunk speed during preferred gait and transition periods								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				18	4			366	377		10.1080/14763141.2017.1409259			JUL 4 2019	2019	Motion capture through inertial sensors is becoming popular, but its accuracy to describe kinematics during changes in walking speed is unknown. The aim of this study was to determine the accuracy of trunk speed extracted using an inertial motion system compared to a gold standard optical motion system, during steady walking and stationary periods. Eleven participants walked on pre-established paths marked on the floor. Between each lap, a 1-second stationary transition period at the initial position was included prior to the next lap. Resultant trunk speed during the walking and transition periods were extracted from an inertial (240Hz sampling rate) and an optical system (120Hz sampling rate) to calculate the agreement (Pearson's correlation coefficient) and relative root mean square errors between both systems. The agreement for the resultant trunk speed between the inertial system and the optical system was strong (0.67<r <= 0.9) for both walking and transition periods. Moreover, relative root mean square error during the transition periods was greater in comparison to the walking periods (>40% across all paths). It was concluded that trunk speed extracted from inertial systems have fair accuracy during walking, but the accuracy was reduced in the transition periods.		[Fleron, Martin Kokholm; Ubbesen, Niels Christian Hauerbach; Battistella, Francesco; Dejtiar, David Leandro] Aalborg Univ, Dept Hlth Sci & Technol, Fac Med, Aalborg, Denmark; [Oliveira, Anderson Souza] Aalborg Univ, Dept Mat & Prod, Fac Engn & Sci, Aalborg, Denmark; [Oliveira, Anderson Souza] Aalborg Univ, Dept Mat & Prod, Fac Engn & Sci, Aalborg, Denmark								22							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000476553100003	26	Article; Article		
J	Gomes, Lara Elena; Diogo, Vera; de Souza Castro, Flavio Antonio; Vilas-Boas, Joao Paulo; Fernandes, Ricardo J.; Figueiredo, Pedro								Biomechanical analyses of synchronised swimming standard and contra-standard sculling								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				18	4			354	365		10.1080/14763141.2017.1409258			JUL 4 2019	2019	Synchronised swimming involves a variety of sculling movements essential for body support and propulsion but its study is scarce. We aimed to biomechanically compare standard and contra-standard sculling techniques, and to observe the relationship between measures. Six synchronised swimmers performed two, 30s maximal intensity, fully tethered standard and contra-standard sculling motions. Kinetic and kinematic data were obtained using a load-cell and underwater cameras, respectively. Force decreased along both techniques' bouts, but no differences in-between techniques were noted for any kinetic variables. Standard sculling presented a higher cycle rate and a lower elbow mean angle than the contra-standard sculling (2.4 +/- 0.3 vs. 2.0 +/- 0.2 cycles/s and 134.1 +/- 5.8 and 141.5 +/- 4.7 degrees, p<0.05). In the standard sculling, by removing and maintaining the variation between participants (r(w) and r, respectively), the absolute mean force was directly related with cycle rate (r(w)=0.60) and wrist angular velocity during flexion (r=0.82), while in the contra-standard condition the force was inversely associated with wrist mean angle (r=-0.95) and directly with hand speed (r(w)=0.76), and elbow angular velocity (r(w)approximate to 0.60). Therefore, technique learning and training require different attention by coaches and swimmers.		[Gomes, Lara Elena] Fed Univ Vale Sao Francisco, Phys Educ Collegiate, Petrolina, Brazil; [Diogo, Vera; Vilas-Boas, Joao Paulo; Fernandes, Ricardo J.] Univ Porto, Ctr Res Educ Innovat & Intervent Sport, Fac Sport, Porto, Portugal; [de Souza Castro, Flavio Antonio] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Sul, Sch Phys Educ Physioterapy & Dance, Aquat Sports Res Grp, Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil; [Figueiredo, Pedro] Portuguese Football Federat, Portugal Football Sch, Cruz Quebrada Dafundo, Portugal; [Gomes, Lara Elena] Fed Univ Vale Sao Francisco, Phys Educ Collegiate, Petrolina, Brazil								6							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000476553100002	25	Article; Article		
J	Yom, Jae P.; Owens, Tane; Arnett, Scott; Beebe, Justin; Son, Veronica								The effects of an unanticipated side-cut on lower extremity kinematics and ground reaction forces during a drop landing								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				18	4			414	425		10.1080/14763141.2017.1409795			JUL 4 2019	2019	Unanticipated direction to cut after landing may alter the lower extremity landing biomechanics when performing landing motions. These alterations may potentially increase the risk of ACL injury. The purpose of this study was to determine if an unanticipated side-cut affects lower extremity landing biomechanics in females. Eighteen recreational female athletes participated in two blocks of testing: the first block of testing consisted of three acceptable trials of anticipated dominant limb and non-dominant limb 45-degree diagonal cutting after landing, which were performed in a counterbalanced order. The second block of testing consisted of three acceptable trials of unanticipated dominant limb and non-dominant limb diagonal cutting after landing. Data analysis mainly focused on the dominant limb landing biomechanics. Unanticipated side-cut landing, compared (paired t-test, p<0.05) to the anticipated landings, resulted in less hip abduction and tibial internal rotation angle at initial contact (IC) and a lower maximum ankle inversion angle and a greater maximum knee abduction angle, and knee and hip displacement. Also, greater posterior GRF and a longer time to peak medial GRF were exhibited. These outcomes indicate that athletes may adapt their landing mechanics to land unsafely when encountering an unanticipated event.		[Yom, Jae P.] Ohio Univ, Sch Appl Hlth Sci & Wellness, Athens, OH 45701 USA; [Owens, Tane] Regis Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Denver, CO USA; [Arnett, Scott] Western Kentucky Univ, Sch Kinesiol Recreat & Sport, Bowling Green, KY 42101 USA; [Beebe, Justin] Simmons Coll, Dept Phys Therapy, Boston, MA 02115 USA; [Son, Veronica] Univ South Dakota, Kinesiol & Sport Management, Vermillion, SD 57069 USA; [Yom, Jae P.] Ohio Univ, Sch Appl Hlth Sci & Wellness, Athens, OH 45701 USA								23							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000476553100007	42	Article; Article		
J	Lark, Sally D.; Dickie, James A.; Faulkner, James A.; Barnes, Matthew J.								Muscle activation and local muscular fatigue during a 12-minute rotational bridge								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				18	4			402	413		10.1080/14763141.2018.1433870			JUL 4 2019	2019	Due to anecdotal reports of back pain during a 12-minute rotational bridge test by uniformed services, the level of fatigue leading to possible back pain and or injury was investigated. We hypothesised a high level of fatigue due to diminishing core muscle activation. Nineteen highly trained uniformed service members were measured by surface electromyography of the rectus abdominis, external oblique, internal oblique, lumbar erector spinae, thoracic erector spinae and latissimus dorsi. Average rectified electromyography amplitude (AEMG) and median power frequency were analysed to determine activation and fatigue. All AEMG were normalised and expressed as a percentage of maximal voluntary isometric contraction (%MVIC). Significant increases in AEMG were observed over the test duration for the rectus abdominis (+19.5%MVIC), external oblique (+18.0%MVIC) and internal oblique (+23.2%MVIC) during the prone position; and for the external oblique (+21.8%MVIC) when bracing on the measurement side (all, p<0.05). No significant changes in median power frequency were observed (all, p>0.05). Combining prone and side bridge positions is a reasonable measure of anterior, posterior and lateral trunk musculature. Muscular fatigue remained low throughout making this a safe assessment in trained individuals.		[Lark, Sally D.; Dickie, James A.; Faulkner, James A.] Massey Univ, Sch Sport & Exercise, Wellington, New Zealand; [Dickie, James A.] Wellington Lions Rugby, Wellington, New Zealand; [Faulkner, James A.] Univ Winchester, Dept Sport & Exercise, Winchester, Hants, England; [Barnes, Matthew J.] Massey Univ, Sch Sport & Exercise, Palmerston North, New Zealand; [Lark, Sally D.] Massey Univ, Sch Sport & Exercise, Wellington, New Zealand								2							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000476553100006	39	Article; Article		
J	Diffendaffer, Alek Z.; Fleisig, Glenn S.; Ivey, Brett; Aune, Kyle T.								Kinematic and kinetic differences between left-and right-handed professional baseball pitchers								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				18	4			448	455		10.1080/14763141.2018.1429489			JUL 4 2019	2019	While 10% of the general population is left-handed, 27% of professional baseball pitchers are left-handed. Biomechanical differences between left- and right-handed college pitchers have been previously reported, but these differences have yet to be examined at the professional level. Therefore, the purpose of this study was to compare pitching biomechanics between left- and right-handed professional pitchers. It was hypothesised that there would be significant kinematic and kinetic differences between these two groups. Pitching biomechanics were collected on 96 left-handed pitchers and a group of 96 right-handed pitchers matched for age, height, mass and ball velocity. Student t-tests were used to identify kinematic and kinetic differences (p<0.05). Of the 31 variables tested, only four were found to be significantly different between the groups. Landing position of the stride foot, trunk separation at foot contact, maximum shoulder external rotation and trunk forward tilt at ball release were all significantly greater in right-handed pitchers. The magnitude of the statistical differences found were small and not consistent with differences in the two previous, smaller studies. Thus, the differences found may be of minimal practical significance and mechanics can be taught the same to all pitchers, regardless of throwing hand.		[Diffendaffer, Alek Z.; Fleisig, Glenn S.; Ivey, Brett; Aune, Kyle T.] Amer Sports Med Inst, Birmingham, AL 35205 USA; [Diffendaffer, Alek Z.] Amer Sports Med Inst, Birmingham, AL 35205 USA								12							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000476553100010	10	Article; Article		
J	Baker, Hayden P.; Lee, Kenneth Young-Noon; Dayton, Steven R.; Terry, Michael; Tjong, Vehniah K.								Thursday Night Football's impact on all-cause injuries in NFL players during 2012-2017								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				47	3			350	352		10.1080/00913847.2019.1587565			JUL 3 2019	2019	Objectives: This study sought to determine whether shortened recovery periods between regularly scheduled Sunday NFL games and Thursday Night Football games significantly increased the incidence of injury in NFL players. Methods: NFL injury reports and injury reserve data were collected for every NFL player, on all 32 NFL teams, for each week during the regular season, for the 2012-2013, 2013-2014, 2014-2015, 2015-2016, and 2016-2017 NFL seasons. Injuries were defined as any reported injury, not previously documented in an injury report prior to said injury. Calculated injury rates per 1000 athletic exposures for Sunday and Monday night games versus Thursday night games was used to generate relative risk of injury using 95% confidence intervals. Results: The all-cause injury rate during NFL Sunday and Monday Night Football games was found to be 7,598 per 1000 athletic exposures, while the all-cause injury rate during Thursday Night Football games was found to be 6,072 per 1,000 athletic exposures. The relative risk of injury during Thursday Night Football games was calculated to be 0.97 compared to Sunday and Monday night games. Therefore, the rate of injury during Thursday Night Football games was significantly less than the rate of injury during Sunday and Monday night games, despite the lack of additional recovery time. Conclusion: This study suggests that eliminating Thursday Night Football is unlikely to improve the statistical injury rate among NFL players.		[Baker, Hayden P.] Univ Illinois, Coll Med, Chicago, IL USA; [Lee, Kenneth Young-Noon; Dayton, Steven R.; Terry, Michael; Tjong, Vehniah K.] Northwestern Univ, Chicago, IL 60611 USA; [Baker, Hayden P.] 1835 W Polk St, Chicago, IL 60612 USA								9							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000486087800020	17	Article; Article		
J	Malik, Azeem Tariq; Bishop, Julie Y.; Neviaser, Andrew; Jain, Nikhil; Khan, Safdar N.								What are the costs of glenohumeral osteoarthritis in the year prior to a total shoulder arthroplasty (TSA)?								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				48	1			86	97		10.1080/00913847.2019.1632159			JAN 2 2020	2020	Objectives: To identify patterns of health-care utilization and costs associated with management of glenohumeral osteoarthritis in the year prior to undergoing an anatomic total shoulder arthroplasty (ATSA). Methods: The PearlDiver Humana database, an administrative database of Medicare Advantage (MA) and Commercial insurance beneficiaries was queried for active records of patients undergoing a primary ATSA from the fourth quarter of 2010-2015. Pre-operative health-care utilization was categorized as 1) Procedures & Anesthesia, 2) Office visits, 3) Radiology, 4) Injections - a) Steroid injections and b) Hyaluronic Acid (HA) injections, 5) Physical Therapy, 6) Non-opioid pain medications and 7) Opioids. Overall costs/reimbursement and Per-patient average reimbursements (PPARs) were calculated for each category. Results: A total of 3,920 patients (MA = 3,691; Commercial = 229) undergoing primary ATSA were retrieved. Based on defined categories, the total costs prior to ATSA were $368,137 and $2,812,617 for Commercial and MA beneficiaries, respectively. Overall 1-year PPAR for each category was as follows: Procedures & Anesthesia (MA = $1765; Commercial = $5333), Office visits (MA = $441; Commercial = $396); Radiology (MA = $253; Commercial = $558), Injections (MA = $117, Commercial = $173), Physical therapy (MA = $473; Commercial = $372), Non-opioid pain meds (MA = $49; Commercial = $147) and Opioids (MA = $26; Commercial = $49). The highest utilization was seen in the three months prior to ATSA with 42-81% of overall PPAR being accounted for various categories. Conclusion: A high utilization of all health-care resource categories was noted within three months prior to surgery. Providers should consider judicious use of such interventions, particularly in patients which ultimately require surgery in a short frame of time, to reduce the costs associated with the overall episode of care.		[Malik, Azeem Tariq; Bishop, Julie Y.; Neviaser, Andrew; Jain, Nikhil; Khan, Safdar N.] Ohio State Univ, Wexner Med Ctr, Dept Orthopaed, 725 Prior Hall,376 W 10th Ave, Columbus, OH 43210 USA; [Malik, Azeem Tariq] Ohio State Univ, Wexner Med Ctr, Dept Orthopaed, 725 Prior Hall,376 W 10th Ave, Columbus, OH 43210 USA								8							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000474121200001	18	Article; Article		
J	Degen, Ryan M.; Cancienne, Jourdan M.; Werner, Brian C.								Do certificate of need regulations impact total shoulder arthroplasty volumes and associated complication rates?								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				47	3			357	363		10.1080/00913847.2019.1592334			JUL 3 2019	2019	Objectives: Certificates of Need (CON) laws were introduced to improve resource utilization and reduce unnecessary health-care expansion. While many states have repealed their use, the debate continues as to their efficacy in achieving these goals. As such, we asked: 1) Are there differences in TSA incidence in CON/non-CON states? 2) Are there differences in procedural charges or reimbursement between CON/non-CON states? 3) Are there differences in the proportion of cases treated in high-, mid- or low-volume facilities between groups? 4) Are there differences in complications and length-of-stay (LOS) between high-volume and low-volume facilities? Methods: The 100% Medicare Standard Analytic files were queried for all TSA between 2005 and 2013, with minimum 1-year follow-up. Publically available data was used to identify states that upheld or repealed CON regulations, and comparisons were subsequently made between groups for normalized incidence of TSA per year and procedural charges and reimbursement rates. Comparisons were then made regarding the distribution of high-, mid- and low volume facilities, post-operative complication rates, and length-of-stay (LOS) between the different volume centers. Results: 167,288 patients undergoing TSA were identified. Normalized rates of TSA increased in both groups. Non-CON states had higher per-patient reimbursement, but paradoxically lower reimbursement rates compared with CON states. CON regulations lead to a greater proportion of procedures being performed in high-volume facilities compared with non-CON (p = 0.002). Finally, 30-day and 1-year complications, and length-of-stay, were significantly lower in high-volume facilities versus low-volume facilities (p <= 0.016). Conclusions: Where upheld, CON regulations contributed to a notable increase in the percentage of procedures performed in high-volume facilities, which in turn lead to a significant reduction in post-operative complications and LOS. Further study is necessary to definitely establish this relationship and the utility of CON regulations for the delivery of TSA care, particularly as it relates to clinical outcomes.		[Degen, Ryan M.] Hosp Special Surg, Sports Med & Shoulder, 535 E 70th St, New York, NY 10021 USA; [Cancienne, Jourdan M.] Univ Virginia Hlth Syst, Orthoped Surg, Charlottesville, VA USA; [Werner, Brian C.] Univ Virginia Hlth Syst, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Charlottesville, VA USA; [Degen, Ryan M.] Western Univ, Fowler Kennedy Sport Med Clin, 1151 Richmond St, London, ON N6A 3K7, Canada								3							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000486087800022	21	Article; Article		
J	Ricci, Vincenzo; Ozcakar, Levent								Ultrasound imaging of the upper trapezius muscle for safer myofascial trigger point injections: a case report								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				47	3			247	248		10.1080/00913847.2019.1589105			JUL 3 2019	2019	Chronic myofascial pain of the cervical spine and shoulders is commonplace in clinical practice and is often related to adverse posture during work conditions in our lifestyle. The diagnosis is clinical and injections of the neck/shoulder muscles, especially the upper trapezius, are commonly performed in a blinded way. The anatomy of the posterior compartment of the neck is complicated, and several neurovascular structures are located nearby the trapezius and levator scapulae muscles in the inter-fascial planes. In this case of ours, we describe in details the sono-anatomy of the lower neck and propose a posterior ultrasound-guided real-time in-plane approach to inject the muscle belly of the upper trapezius, i.e. avoiding the superficial and deep branches of the transverse cervical artery and the spinal accessory nerve.		[Ricci, Vincenzo] IRCCS Rizzoli Orthopaed Inst, Phys & Rehabil Med Unit, Dept Biomed & Neuromotor Sci, Bologna, Italy; [Ozcakar, Levent] Hacettepe Univ, Med Sch, Dept Phys & Rehabil Med, Ankara, Turkey; [Ricci, Vincenzo] IRCCS Rizzoli Orthopaed Inst, Phys & Rehabil Med Unit, Dept Biomed & Neuromotor Sci, Bologna, Italy								12							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000486087800004	6	Article; Article		
J	Andrade, Alexandro; Bevilacqua, Guilherme; Casagrande, Pedro; Brandt, Ricardo; Coimbra, Danilo								Sleep quality associated with mood in elite athletes								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				47	3			312	317		10.1080/00913847.2018.1553467			JUL 3 2019	2019	Objectives: This study aimed to analyze the association between sleep quality and mood in elite athletes of different competitive levels. Methods: Participants were 1041 elite athletes (aged 20.82 +/- 6.62 years), with 671 men (64.5%/21.52 +/- 6.90 years) and 370 women (35.5%/19.55 +/- 5.89 years) from 10 individual sports and 6 team sports. Participants self-reported sleep quality on a Likert-type scale and mood was measured with the Brunel Mood Scale (BRUMS). The data were analyzed using the Kruskal-Wallis test, and binary logistic regression. Results: Results revealed that athletes who compete internationally are 84% more likely to have poor sleep quality than athletes who compete at a regional level. International athletes with good sleep quality showed greater vigor. National athletes with poor sleep quality showed more confusion, depression, and fatigue. Thus, mood and competitive level are factors associated with sleep quality. Confusion, fatigue, and tension impair sleep, and vigor reduces the likelihood of poor sleep. Conclusions: Sleep should be monitored, especially in international level athletes, in order to prevent sleep disorders during competitions. Coaches and athletes should use techniques and strategies for appropriate management of sleep and mood, to maintain the athletes in optimal condition before important competitions.		[Andrade, Alexandro; Bevilacqua, Guilherme; Casagrande, Pedro; Coimbra, Danilo] Univ Estado Santa Catarina, Dept Phys Educ, Lab Sports & Exercise Psychol LAPE, Florianopolis, SC, Brazil; [Brandt, Ricardo] State Univ West Parana, Dept Phys Educ, Marechal Candido Rodondo, Parana, Brazil; [Andrade, Alexandro] Univ Estado Santa Catarina, Dept Phys Educ, Rua Paschoal Simone 358, BR-88080350 Florianopolis, SC, Brazil								48							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000486087800014	38	Article; Article		
J	Bennett, Lauren L.; Arias, Jalayne J.; Ford, Paul J.; Bernick, Charles; Banks, Sarah J.								Concussion reporting and perceived knowledge of professional fighters								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				47	3			295	300		10.1080/00913847.2018.1552481			JUL 3 2019	2019	Objective: For concussions to be effectively managed in sports, they need to be correctly identified and reported. The extent to which professional athletes correctly recognize concussions, and their willingness to report symptoms, is not yet well understood. Given the risk of head injuries leading to concussions across combat sports, insight into professional fighters' knowledge and reporting of concussive symptoms is essential to improve concussion management. Methods: To investigate understanding and reporting patterns of concussions sustained while training or competing, 257 fighters completed a self-report questionnaire assessing self-perception of concussion knowledge, trust of ringside medical providers, and reported number of previous head injuries. Fighting history, including number of knockouts, was obtained from self-report (amateur) and published (professional) records. Results: Significant gaps in fighters' perceived knowledge of concussion symptoms and long-term effects of multiple concussions emerged. Approximately 40% of fighters reported returning to training or competition the same day a head injury was sustained, while 21% of fighters endorsed concealing symptoms of head injury from medical providers and coaches. Conclusions: Confusion surrounding terms used to describe head injuries amongst fighters (e.g., concussions, knockouts), coupled with limited understanding of concussive symptoms and a desire to return to competition, likely contributes to significant underreporting of symptoms.		[Bennett, Lauren L.; Banks, Sarah J.] Cleveland Clin, Neuropsychol Program, Lou Ruvo Ctr Brain Hlth, 888 W Bonneville Ave, Las Vegas, NV 89106 USA; [Arias, Jalayne J.] Univ Calif San Francisco, Memory & Aging Ctr, San Francisco, CA 94143 USA; [Ford, Paul J.] Cleveland Clin, Ctr Bioeth, Cleveland, OH 44106 USA; [Bernick, Charles] Cleveland Clin, Lou Ruvo Ctr Brain Hlth, Ctr Bioeth, Las Vegas, NV 89106 USA; [Banks, Sarah J.] Univ Calif San Diego, Multidisciplinary Memory Clin, La Jolla, CA 92093 USA; [Bennett, Lauren L.] Cleveland Clin, Neuropsychol Program, Lou Ruvo Ctr Brain Hlth, 888 W Bonneville Ave, Las Vegas, NV 89106 USA								22							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000486087800012	21	Article; Article		
J	Ikuta, Toshikazu; Frith, Emily; Ponce, Pamela; Loprinzi, Paul D.								Association of physical activity on the functional connectivity of the hippocampal-orbitofrontal pathway								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				47	3			290	294		10.1080/00913847.2018.1549461			JUL 3 2019	2019	Objective: The objective of the study is to examine the association between physical activity and hippocampal-orbitofrontal functional connectivity. Methods: Data from the Nathan Kline Institute-Rockland Sample was utilized, which consisted of 366 participants (M-age = 43 years; 63% female). Physical activity was self-reported using the International Physical Activity Questionnaire. Hippocampal-orbitofrontal functional connectivity was assessed from magnetic resonance imaging. Results: Moderate-intensity physical activity was not statistically significantly associated with left hippocampal-orbitofrontal connectivity (beta = 0.001; 95% CI: -0.02, 0.03; P = 0.90) or right hippocampal-orbitofrontal connectivity (beta = 0.01; 95% CI: -0.01, 0.04; P = 0.22). However, vigorous-intensity physical activity was statistically significantly associated with right hippocampal-orbitofrontal connectivity (beta = 0.01; 95% CI: 0.004, 0.02; P = 0.002). Discussion: Habitual engagement in intense physical activity was associated with greater hippocampal-orbitofrontal connectivity, while moderate activity engagement was not. This may have important implications for the exercise neurobiology field in the context of exercise and memory function, suggesting that intense activity may facilitate cognitive/memory functions. However, our findings should be interpreted with caution given the relatively weak associations that were observed.		[Ikuta, Toshikazu] Univ Mississippi, Digital Neurosci Lab, Dept Commun Sci & Disorders, Oxford, MS USA; [Frith, Emily; Ponce, Pamela; Loprinzi, Paul D.] Univ Mississippi, Exercise & Memory Lab, Dept Hlth Exercise Sci & Recreat Management, Oxford, MS 38677 USA; [Loprinzi, Paul D.] Univ Mississippi, Exercise & Memory Lab, Dept Hlth Exercise Sci & Recreat Management, Oxford, MS 38677 USA								11							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000486087800011	37	Article; Article		
J	Phelan, B.; King, E.; Richter, C.; Webster, K.; Falvey, E.								A comparison of anterior cruciate ligament - Return to sports after injury (ACL-RSI) scores of male athletes nine-months Post-ACL reconstruction with matched uninjured controls								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				38				179	183		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.05.006			JUL 2019	2019	Objectives: To report ACL-RSI scores in healthy athletes with no history of ACL injury. To measure ACL-RSI scores at nine-months post-ACL reconstruction and to assess the difference between healthy athlete and patient responses. Design: Cross-sectional study. Setting: Private sports clinic. Participants: 499 ACL reconstruction athletes completed the scale as they returned for their nine-month post-operative review appointment. A matched control group of 103 healthy athletes were selected for comparison. Main outcome measures: ACL-RSI for participants with controls completing a study-specific modified scale. Results: The median response to the ACL-RSI for the control group was higher (80.0) (Interquartile Range (IRQ) 66.7-88.3) than that of the ACL reconstruction group (74.17) (1RQ 59.2-86.0), however the effect size was small (0.1). Conclusion: This study reports normative values for uninjured athletes using the ACL-RSI questionnaire giving a benchmark for recovery after ACLR but also reflecting awareness of injury risk in uninjured athletes. ACL-RSI scores nine-months post-operatively had not yet returned to levels seen in matched uninjured controls. (C) 2019 Published by Elsevier Ltd.		[Phelan, B.; Falvey, E.] Univ Coll Cork, Coll Med & Hlth, Cork, Ireland; [King, E.; Richter, C.; Falvey, E.] Sports Surg Clin, Sports Med Dept, Dublin, Ireland; [Webster, K.] La Trobe Univ, Sch Allied Hlth, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Phelan, B.] Univ Coll Cork, Coll Med & Hlth, Cork, Ireland								14							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000474323300025	39	Article; Article		
J	Emery, Sophie; Cook, Jill; Ferris, April-Rose; Smith, Peter; Mayes, Susan								Hip flexor muscle size in ballet dancers compared to athletes, and relationship to hip pain								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				38				146	151		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.05.003			JUL 2019	2019	Objectives: To compare hip flexor muscle cross-sectional area (CSA) in ballet dancers and athletes, and to evaluate the relationship between hip flexor size and hip pain. Study design: Case control study. Setting: Elite ballet and sport. Participants: 33 professional ballet dancers and 33 age and sex-matched athletes. Main outcome measures: CSA's of hip flexor muscles iliopsoas, rectus femoris, sartorius and tensor fascia latae (TFL) on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of one hip. Hip pain was scored with the Copenhagen Hip and Groin Outcome Score (HAGOS): HAGOS pain score of 100 was defined as no pain and a score less than 100 was defined as pain. Participants' weight and height. Results: Dancers had larger iliopsoas (P < 0.001, eta p(2) = 0.25), TFL (P = 0.001, eta p(2) = 0.17), and sartorius (P < 0.001, eta p(2) = 0.18) estimated marginal mean muscle CSAs compared to athletes. Rectus femoris muscle size did not differ between groups (P = 0.095, eta p(2) = 0.04). Iliopsoas estimated marginal mean muscle CSA was 8% smaller in participants with hip pain compared to those with no hip pain (P = 0.035, eta p(2)= 0.7). There was no interaction between the estimated marginal mean muscle CSA of rectus femoris, TFL and sartorius and pain. Conclusion: Ballet appears to selectively load iliopsoas, TFL and sartorius muscles but not rectus femoris. Iliopsoas muscle size was smaller in participants with hip pain, but TFL, sartorius and rectus femoris muscle size was not related to hip pain. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Emery, Sophie; Mayes, Susan] Australian Ballet, 2 Kavanagh St, Southbank, Vic 3006, Australia; [Cook, Jill] La Trobe Univ, Sch Allied Hlth, Bundoora, Vic 3086, Australia; [Ferris, April-Rose] Monash Univ, Fac Med Nursing & Hlth Sci, Frankston, Vic 3199, Australia; [Smith, Peter] MIA East Melbourne Radiol, East Melbourne, Vic 3002, Australia; [Emery, Sophie] Australian Ballet, 2 Kavanagh St, Southbank, Vic 3006, Australia								8							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000474323300021	45	Article; Article		
J	Nishimoto, Kana; Takasaki, Hiroshi								Jack-knife stretching and active knee extension stretching equally improve the relative flexibility of the hamstring muscles between the low back: A randomized controlled trial								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				38				139	145		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.05.002			JUL 2019	2019			[Nishimoto, Kana; Takasaki, Hiroshi] Saitama Prefectural Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Sannomiya 820, Koshigaya, Saitama 3438540, Japan; [Nishimoto, Kana] Tokyo Womens Med Univ, Dept Rehabil, Yachiyo Med Ctr, Yachiyo 2768524, Japan; [Takasaki, Hiroshi] Saitama Prefectural Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Sannomiya 820, Koshigaya, Saitama 3438540, Japan								3							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000474323300020	25	Article; Article		
J	Kinoshita, Kazuo; Okada, Kyoji; Saito, Isao; Saito, Akira; Takahashi, Yusuke; Kimoto, Minoru; Wakasa, Masahiko								Alignment of the rearfoot and foot pressure patterns of individuals with medial tibial stress syndrome: A cross-sectional study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				38				132	138		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.03.011			JUL 2019	2019	Objective: To compare the rearfoot alignment (leg-heel angle, LHA) during standing and walking, and foot pressure during walking between individuals with medial tibial stress syndrome (MTSS) and asymptomatic individuals participating in daily sports. Design: A cross-sectional study. Setting: Research laboratory. Participants: MTSS (18 legs) and control (15 legs) participants. Main outcome measures: The LHA in the frontal plane during walking and standing; partial foot pressures expressed as the percentage of body weight (%PFP); and transverse width of the center of pressure (COP) path expressed as the percentage of foot width (%Trans) on walking. Results: The LHA while walking was significantly higher in MTSS individuals, whereas the LHA while standing was not significantly different. The %PFPs of medial metatarsal areas were significantly higher in MISS patients, whereas the %Trans was significantly lower. Conclusions: In individuals with MTSS, the LHA is similar to controls while standing but higher (more everted) while walking while there is higher pressure under the medial metatarsal areas and the COP is more medial. Rearfoot malalignment in individuals with mild to moderate MISS can be detected on walking, even if the alignment on standing is normal. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Kinoshita, Kazuo; Okada, Kyoji; Saito, Isao; Saito, Akira; Takahashi, Yusuke; Kimoto, Minoru; Wakasa, Masahiko] Akita Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Grad Sch Hlth Sci, Akita, Japan; [Kinoshita, Kazuo] Sanno Orthoped Clin, Div Rehabil, Akita, Japan; [Saito, Isao] Ugo Municipal Hosp, Div Rehabil, Ugo Town, Akita, Japan; [Takahashi, Yusuke] Akita Univ Hosp, Div Rehabil, Akita, Japan; [Kimoto, Minoru] Akita Prefectural Ctr Dev & Disabil, Div Rehabil, Akita, Japan; [Kinoshita, Kazuo] Akita Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Grad Sch Hlth Sci, Akita, Japan								5							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000474323300019	38	Article; Article		
J	Otten, Roald; Stam, Sebastiaan; Langhout, Rob; Weir, Adam; Tak, Igor								The effect of compression shorts on pain and performance in male football players with groin pain - A double blinded randomized controlled trial								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				38				87	95		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.04.013			JUL 2019	2019	Objective: To investigate the effects of compression shorts on pain and performance in football players with groin pain. Study design: Double blinded randomized controlled trial. Setting: Soccer pitch. Participants: Thirty-four male football players with groin pain. Main outcome measures: The effect of wearing zoned high compression shorts (ZHC-shorts), non-zoned low compression shorts (NZLC-shorts), and normal sports clothes on pain measured with the Numeric Pain Rating Scale (NPRS) and performance during the Copenhagen 5-s squeeze test (CS), the Illinois Agility test (IAT), and maximum shooting (ST). The effects of wearing ZHC versus NZLC shorts on symptoms were measured using the Hip and groin outcome score (HAGOS) during actual football activities. Results: Wearing ZHC-shorts reduced pain during the IAT (1.4, ES = 0.58, p= <0.01) and ST (1.2, ES = 0.47, p= <0.01) compared to wearing normal sports clothes, but did not negatively affect performance. Compared to the baseline HAGOS scores a clinically significant improvement in the symptoms (9.7, ES = 0.63, p= <0.01) and sport/recreation (13.2, ES = 0.68, p = 0.01) subscales was found when wearing the ZHC-short during football activities. Conclusion: Wearing zoned high compression shorts could be useful in reducing groin pain in football players during their football activities. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Otten, Roald] Roald Otten Sportsrehab Part J&C Sportsrehab, Amstelveen, Netherlands; [Stam, Sebastiaan] Physiotherapy Maarn Maarsbergen, Maarn, Netherlands; [Langhout, Rob; Tak, Igor] Dutch Inst Allied Hlth Care NPi, Amersfoort, Netherlands; [Langhout, Rob; Tak, Igor] Int Olymp Comm Res Ctr Prevent Injury & Protect A, Amsterdam Collaborat Hlth & Safety Sports, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Langhout, Rob] Physiotherapy Dukenburg, Nijmegen, Netherlands; [Langhout, Rob] Master Musculoskeletal Therapy SOMT, Amersfoort, Netherlands; [Weir, Adam] Erasmus MC Univ, Med Ctr, Dept Orthopaed, Erasmus MC Ctr Groin Injuries, Rotterdam, Netherlands; [Weir, Adam] Aspetar Orthopaed & Sports Hosp, Aspetar Sports Groin Pain Ctr, Doha, Qatar; [Weir, Adam] Sport Med & Exercise Clin Haarlem SBK, Haarlem, Netherlands; [Tak, Igor] Physiotherapy Utrecht Oost, Utrecht, Netherlands; [Tak, Igor] Univ Amsterdam, Dept Orthopaed & Sports Traumatol, Med Ctr, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Tak, Igor] Acad Ctr Evidence Based Sports Med ACES, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Otten, Roald] Escapade 1, NL-1183 NM Amstelveen, Netherlands								8							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000474323300014	41	Article; Article		
J	Sabet, Sonia; Letafatkar, Amir; Eftekhari, Fereshteh; Khosrokiani, Zohre; Gokeler, Alli								Trunk and hip control neuromuscular training to target inter limb asymmetry deficits associated with anterior cruciate ligament injury								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				38				71	79		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.04.014			JUL 2019	2019	Objective: The primary aim of this study was to determine the effect of NMT on female basketball players (performing at least 3 exercise sessions per week for at least 90 min) with inter limb asymmetry. Design: Controlled laboratory study. Setting: University research laboratory. Participants: 40 female basketball players (age 22.4 +/- 1.7 years, height 168.4 +/- 5.31 cm, weight 66.6 +/- 6.6 kg) who demonstrated neuromuscular deficits on the tuck jump test were allocated to a control group (n = 20), and the NMT group (n = 20). Intervention: Experimental group participate in an 8-week NMT program including 6 weeks (18 sessions), each session almost lasted for 30 min. Main outcome measures: The peak torque as well as time to peak torques of hip abductors and external rotators as well as knee flexors and extensors muscles, and the performance were measured before and at the end of a 6-week NMT using the isokinetic dynamometer and the hop test battery respectively. Results: A significant improvement was observed in the NMT group for the peak torque and time to peak torque in hip and knee muscles both concentric and eccentric states at 60 and 180 sec. Also, they showed a significant improvement in the distance of single leg hop and single leg triple crossover hop tests. However, no significant 20 and 21. change was seen in the control group. Conclusions: An NMT program can significantly improve muscle strength, hop tests scores, and the inter limb asymmetry in female basketball players. The NMT may be used in ACL prevention in female basketball players with lower limb asymmetry. (C) 2019 Published by Elsevier Ltd.		[Sabet, Sonia; Letafatkar, Amir; Khosrokiani, Zohre] Kharazmi Univ, Fac Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Tehran, Iran; [Eftekhari, Fereshteh] Shiraz Univ, Fac Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Shiraz, Iran; [Gokeler, Alli] Luxembourg Inst Res Orthoped Sports Med & Sci, Luxembourg, Luxembourg; [Letafatkar, Amir] Kharazmi Univ, Fac Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Biomech & Correct Exercise Lab, Mirdamad Blvd,Sout Razan St, Tehran, Iran								15							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000474323300012	44	Article; Article		
J	Barton, Christian J.; Silva, Danilo de Oliveira; Patterson, Brooke E.; Crossley, Kay M.; Pizzari, Tania; Nunes, Guilherme S.								u A proximal progressive resistance training program targeting strength and power is feasible in people with patellofemoral pain								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				38				59	65		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.04.010			JUL 2019	2019	Objectives: To evaluate the feasibility of a 12-week progressive resistance training program for people with patellofemoral pain (PFP) targeting proximal muscle strength and power; and resulting clinical and muscle capacity outcomes. Design: Feasibility study. Setting: Clinical environment. Participants: Mixed-sex sample of people with PFP. Main outcome measures: Feasibility outcomes included eligibility, recruitment rate, intervention adherence, and drop-outs. Secondary outcomes included perceived recovery, physical function (AKPS and KOOS-PF), worst pain (VAS-cm), kinesiophobia (Tampa), physical activity (IPAQ), and hip strength (isometric and 10 repetition maximum) and power. Results: Eleven people, from 36 who responded to advertisements, commenced the program. One participant withdrew. Ten participants who completed the program reported improvement (3 completely recovered; 6 marked; and 1 moderate). Higher AKPS (effect size [ES] = 1.81), improved KOOS-PF (ES = 1.37), and reduced pain (ES = 3.36) occurred alongside increased hip abduction and extension dynamic strength (ES = 2.22 and 1.92, respectively) and power (ES = 0.78 and 0.77, respectively). Isometric strength improved for hip abduction (ES = 0.99), but not hip extension. Conclusion: A 12-week progressive resistance training program targeting proximal muscle strength and power is feasible and associated with moderate-large improvements in pain, function, and hip muscle capacity in people with PFP. Further research evaluating the efficacy of progressive resistance training is warranted. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Barton, Christian J.; Silva, Danilo de Oliveira; Patterson, Brooke E.; Crossley, Kay M.; Pizzari, Tania; Nunes, Guilherme S.] La Trobe Univ, La Trobe Sport & Exercise Med Res Ctr, Sch Allied Hlth, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Barton, Christian J.] Univ Melbourne, St Vincents Hosp, Dept Surg, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Silva, Danilo de Oliveira] Sao Paulo State Univ UNESP, Sch Sci & Technol, Dept Physiotherapy, Presidente Prudente, Brazil; [Nunes, Guilherme S.] Univ Fed Sao Carlos, Dept Physiotherapy, Sao Carlos, SP, Brazil; [Barton, Christian J.] La Trobe Sport & Exercise Med Res Ctr, Bundoora, Vic 3086, Australia								20							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000474323300010	49	Article; Article		
J	Degot, Matthieu; Blache, Yoann; Vigne, Gregory; Jure, Dimitri; Borel, Florent; Neyton, Lionel; Rogowski, Isabelle								Intrarater reliability and agreement of a modified Closed Kinetic Chain Upper Extremity Stability Test								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				38				44	48		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.04.017			JUL 2019	2019	Objectives: To assess the reliability of a modified procedure for Closed Kinetic Chain Upper Extremity Stability Test (CKCUEST). Design: Intra- and intersession reliability and agreement; Setting: Clinical. Participants: Twenty-seven asymptomatic athletes. Main outcome measures: The modifications (m-CKCUEST) in CKCUEST procedure consisted in hand spacing at one half arm-span, and to complete the three regular-series of 15 s exertion by performing a fourth 1-min series during which the number of touches was counted every 15 s. The intra- and inter session reliability and agreement were assessed for the numbers of touches in order to produce two outcome measures: m-CKCUEST score and muscular endurance index. Results: The most reliable m-CKCUEST score was obtained when averaging the numbers of touches of the second and third sets (Intraclass Coefficient of Correlation(3,k); ICC = 0.92). Good reliability was found for muscular endurance index computed when dividing the one-half number of touches counted during the last 30 s of 1-min set, by the m-CKCUEST score calculated above (ICC = 0.86). Conclusions: The m-CKCUEST allowed the production of two reliable outcome measures, which assessed the upper limb stability and the muscular endurance. Such outcomes may be used in a follow-up to assess performance or rehabilitation level. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Degot, Matthieu; Blache, Yoann; Jure, Dimitri; Rogowski, Isabelle] Univ Lyon, Lab Interuniv Biol Motricite EA 7424, UFRSTAPS, 27-29 Blvd 11 Novembre 1918, F-69622 Villeurbanne, France; [Vigne, Gregory; Jure, Dimitri] Athlet France, 4 Rue Jean Sarrazin, F-69008 Lyon, France; [Borel, Florent; Neyton, Lionel] Ctr Orthoped Santy, Fifa Med Ctr Excellence, 24 Ave Paul Santy, F-69008 Lyon, France; [Neyton, Lionel] Ramsay Gen Sante, Hop Prive Jean Mermoz, 55 Ave Jean Mermoz, F-69008 Lyon, France; [Rogowski, Isabelle] Univ Claude Bernard Lyon 1, 27-29,Blvd 11 Novembre 1918, F-69622 Villeurbanne, France								31							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000474323300008	21	Article; Article		
J	Bartels, Thomas; Brehme, Kay; Pyschik, Martin; Pollak, Ruben; Schaffrath, Nicola; Schulze, Stephan; Delank, Karl-Stefan; Laudner, Kevin; Schwesig, Rene								Postural stability and regulation before and after anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction - A two years longitudinal study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				38				49	58		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.04.009			JUL 2019	2019	Objectives: To evaluate postural regulation and stability among patients who underwent anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction (ACLR) and rehabilitation over a two-year follow-up period. Design: Longitudinal; Setting: Biomechanics laboratory; Participants: 30 ACLR patients (32.0 +/- 12.2 years, 14 males) with isolated ACL rupture. Main outcome measures: Postural regulation was tested before ACLR, as well as at six-weeks, twelve weeks, six-months, one-year and two-years post-ACLR and standardized rehabilitation. Postural regulation was measured for stability indicator (ST), weight distribution index (WDI), synchronization (foot coordination) and sway intensities (postural subsystems). Results: Significant time effects (pre-vs. two-years postoperative) were found for WDI (eta(2)(p) = 0.466), synchronization (eta(2)(p) = 0.368), mediolateral weight distribution (eta(2)(p) = 0.349), ST (eta(2)(p) = 0.205), visual/nigrostriatal systems (eta(2)(p) = 0.179) and peripheral-vestibular system (eta(2)(p) = 0.102). The largest difference (preoperative: eta(2)(p)= 0.180) to the matched sample was calculated for WDI. The most significant differences to the matched sample were observed for ST (preoperative: eta(2)(p) = 0.126; six-weeks postoperative: eta(2)(p) = 0.103) and WDI (preoperative: eta(2)(p) = 0.180; six-weeks postoperative: eta(2)(p) = 0.174). Conclusion: ACLR and rehabilitation influence postural subsystems, postural stability, weight distribution and foot synchronization. Normalization of mediolateral weight distribution requires one year following ACLR. The ACLR leads to a suppression of the somatosensory and cerebellar system which was compensated by a higher activity of the visual and nigrostriatal systems. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Bartels, Thomas; Brehme, Kay; Pyschik, Martin] Ctr Joint Surg, SportsClin Halle, D-06108 Halle, Saale, Germany; [Pollak, Ruben; Schaffrath, Nicola; Schulze, Stephan; Delank, Karl-Stefan; Schwesig, Rene] Martin Luther Univ Halle Wittenberg, Fac Med, Dept Orthopaed & Traumatol, D-06120 Halle, Saale, Germany; [Laudner, Kevin] Illinois State Univ, Sch Kinesiol & Recreat, Campus Box 5120, Normal, IL 61790 USA; [Laudner, Kevin] Illinois State Univ, Sch Kinesiol & Recreat, Campus Box 5120, Normal, IL 61790 USA								19							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000474323300009	42	Article; Article		
J	Kuenze, Christopher; Lisee, Caroline; Birchmeier, Thomas; Triplett, Ashley; Wilcox, Luke; Schorfhaar, Andrew; Shingles, Michael								Sex differences in quadriceps rate of torque development within 1 year of ACL reconstruction								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				38				36	43		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.04.008			JUL 2019	2019	Objectives: To investigate the effect of sex on measures of quadriceps strength, rate of torque development, and knee function during the first year following ACLR. Design: Cross-sectional; Setting: University community; Participants: Sixty individuals (29 men) with unilateral ACLR in the last 12 months. Main outcome measures: Participants completed bilateral knee extension maximal voluntary isometric contraction (MVIC, Nm/kg) strength assessments. Rates of torque development (Nm*kg(-l)*s(-1)) were assessed from contraction initiation to 100 ms (RTD100) and from 100 ms to 200 ms after contraction initiation (RTD200). The effects of sex MVIC strength, RTD, and limb symmetry were assessed using separate ANCOVAs. Results: Women displayed weaker involved limb (Men = 2.72 +/- 0.72 Nm*kg(-1), Women = 2.01 +/- 0.50 Nm*kg(-1), p < 0.001) and contralateral limb (Men = 3.15 +/- 0.52 Nm*kg(-1), Women = 2.66 +/- 0.58 Nm*kg(-1), p < 0.001) MVIC, and slower involved limb RTD100 (Men = 8.36 +/- 3.16 Nm*kg(-1)*s(-1), Women = 6.50 +/- 2.41 Nm*kg(-l)*s(-1), p = 0.01) and RTD200 (Men = 9.49 +/- 3.45 Nm*kg(-1)*s(-1), Women = 9.49 +/- 3.45 Nm*kg(-1).s(-1), p < 0.001) when compared to men. Conclusions: Within the first year after ACLR, women displayed bilateral quadriceps weakness and slower involved limb quadriceps RTD when compared to men. Specific focus on facilitating quadriceps hypertrophy and improving neural drive to the quadriceps is indicated when treating female patients attempting to make a return to sport after ACLR. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Kuenze, Christopher; Lisee, Caroline; Birchmeier, Thomas; Triplett, Ashley] Michigan State Univ, Dept Kinesiol, 308 W Circle Dr 105c, E Lansing, MI 48824 USA; [Kuenze, Christopher; Wilcox, Luke; Schorfhaar, Andrew; Shingles, Michael] Michigan State Univ, Div Sports Med, Coll Osteopath Med, 4660 Hagadorn Rd 420, E Lansing, MI 48823 USA; [Kuenze, Christopher] Michigan State Univ, Dept Kinesiol, 308 W Circle Dr 105c, E Lansing, MI 48824 USA								41							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000474323300007	39	Article; Article		
J	Eriksrud, Ola; Ghelem, Ali; Cabri, Jan								Isokinetic strength training of kinetic chain exercises of a professional tennis player with a minor partial internal abdominal oblique muscle tear - A case report								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				38				23	29		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.04.012			JUL 2019	2019	Objective: To present a case of a right-handed professional tennis player with a left internal abdominal oblique muscle tear sustained while serving. We document the progress of a rehabilitation program consisting of primarily kinetic chain isokinetic strength training where symmetrical measurements (<10% side difference) of force and dynamic postural control were used as criteria for return to sport. Methods: Isokinetic exercises (bilateral rotational pull, unilateral vertical press and unilateral anterior push) to target trunk specific demands of the serve (flexion, rotation and lateral flexion) were done using robotic resistance. Dynamic postural control was assessed using the hand reach star excursion balance test (HSEBT). The rehabilitation program lasted 3.5 weeks (eight sessions). Results: At baseline isokinetic strength tests that imposed concentric muscle function demands of the injured muscle had lower force measurements (range: -32.1 to -71.9%). These force measurements improved (range: 166.1-296.5%) and were symmetrical (range: +1.6 to +7.3%) on return to sport. In addition, the HSEBT test with the greatest asymmetry (-20 cm) improved to symmetrical (+2 cm) on return to sport. Conclusion: Symmetrical isokinetic force and dynamic postural control measurements were successful return to sport criteria as the player since has remained pain free (2 years). (C) 2019 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.		[Eriksrud, Ola; Cabri, Jan] Norwegian Sch Sports Sci, Dept Phys Performance, POB 4014, N-0806 Oslo, Norway; [Ghelem, Ali] Ali Ghelem AB, Stockholm, Sweden; [Eriksrud, Ola] Norwegian Sch Sports Sci, Dept Phys Performance, POB 4014, N-0806 Oslo, Norway								5							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000474323300005	39	Article; Article		
J	Silva, Yslainy Araujo; Novaes, Wbinayara Alves; Pereira Dos Passos, Muana Hiandra; Santos Nascimento, Vinicius Yan; Cavalcante, Bruno Remigio; Rodarti Pitangui, Ana Carolina; De Araujo, Rodrigo Cappato								Reliability of the Closed Kinetic Chain Upper Extremity Stability Test in young adults								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				38				17	22		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.04.004			JUL 2019	2019	Objective: To analyze the reliability indicators of CKCUEST, and to investigate how many sessions are necessary to find a stable score. Design: Reliability study. Setting: Biomechanics laboratory. Participants: The sample consisted of 36 healthy young adults, of both genders. Main outcome measures: The subjects performed four CKCUEST with a minimum interval of three days between evaluations. The number of touches in each execution was counted, and then the average values of the number of rings, normalized score and power were calculated. Results: The CKCUEST presented ICC ranging from 0.77 to 0.92 (mean number of touches), 0.80 to 0.94 (normalized score) and 0.91 to 0.98 (power). The Bland-Altman plots showed the presence of systematic error for all measures, as also confirmed by the ANOVA analysis. The scores increased every session for both genders. The boys' scores stabilized in the third session. However, the girls' scores did not stabilize. Conclusion: The CKCUEST presents excellent reliability; however, there is the presence of systematic error between measurements. It is necessary to perform at least three sessions to obtain reliable data for male participants, and the female results were not conclusive. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Silva, Yslainy Araujo; Novaes, Wbinayara Alves] Univ Pernambuco, Grad Course Physiotherapy, Petrolina, PE, Brazil; [Pereira Dos Passos, Muana Hiandra; Santos Nascimento, Vinicius Yan; Cavalcante, Bruno Remigio; De Araujo, Rodrigo Cappato] UPE UFPB, Associate Program Postgrad Phys Educ, Recife, PE, Brazil; [Rodarti Pitangui, Ana Carolina; De Araujo, Rodrigo Cappato] Univ Pernambuco, Dept Phys Therapy, Cidade Univ,Br 203 Km2 S-N, BR-56328903 Petrolina, PE, Brazil; [Santos Nascimento, Vinicius Yan] Univ Pernambuco, Dept Phys Therapy, Cidade Univ,Br 203 Km2 S-N, BR-56328903 Petrolina, PE, Brazil								24							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000474323300004	20	Article; Article		
J	Cronstrom, A.; Ageberg, E.; Smith, M. M. Franettovich; Blackmore, T.; Nae, J.; Creaby, M. W.								Factors affecting knee abduction during weight-bearing activities in individuals with anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				38				8	15		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.04.006			JUL 2019	2019	Objective: To investigate if muscle strength and muscle activation patterns are associated with increased knee abduction during two functional tasks, commonly used in rehabilitation for individuals with anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction (ACLR). Design: Cross-sectional study. Setting: Laboratory. Participants: 24 women and 29 men approximately 7 months after ACLR. Main outcome measures: Isometric peak torque of the trunk and lower extremity muscles were determined during maximal voluntary contractions. Trunk and lower extremity average muscle activation amplitude and peak knee abduction were evaluated during the single-leg squat (SLS) and the single-leg hop for distance (SLHD) for the injured side. Separate backward regressions were performed for men and women. Results: In women, lower knee flexion and extension strength were associated with greater peak knee abduction during the SLS (B = 4.63-18.26, p <= 0.036); lower knee flexion strength and iliocostalis activation on the non-injured side were associated with greater peak knee abduction during the SLHD (B = 0.60-20.48, p <= 0.043). No associations between muscle function and peak knee abduction were found in men. Conclusions: Muscle function may contribute differently to knee abduction in men and women after ACLR. This should be considered when designing rehabilitation programs to reduce knee abduction in these patients. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Cronstrom, A.; Ageberg, E.; Nae, J.] Lund Univ, Dept Hlth Sci, Lund, Sweden; [Smith, M. M. Franettovich] Univ Queensland, Sch Hlth & Rehabil Sci, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [Blackmore, T.; Creaby, M. W.] Australian Catholic Univ, Sch Exercise Sci, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [Blackmore, T.] Univ Portsmouth, Dept Sport & Exercise Sci, Portsmouth, Hants, England; [Cronstrom, A.] Box 157, S-22100 Lund, Sweden								13							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000474323300002	54	Article; Article		
J	Howell, David R.; Lugade, Vipul; Taksir, Mikhail; Meehan, William P., III								Determining the utility of a smartphone-based gait evaluation for possible use in concussion management								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				48	1			75	80		10.1080/00913847.2019.1632155			JAN 2 2020	2020	Objectives: Our was objectives were to (1) assess the validity of a smartphone-based application to obtain spatiotemporal gait variables relative to an established movement monitoring system used previously to evaluate post-concussion gait, and (2) determine the test-retest reliability of gait variables obtained with a smartphone. Methods: Twenty healthy participants (n = 14 females, mean age = 22.2, SD = 2.1 years) were assessed at two time points, approximately two weeks apart. Two measurement systems (inertial sensor system, smartphone application) acquired and analyzed single-task and dual-task spatio-temporal gait variables simultaneously. Our primary outcome measures were average walking speed (m/s), cadence (steps/min), and stride length (m) measured by the inertial sensor system and smartphone application. Results: Correlations between the systems were high to very high (Pearson r = 0.77-0.98) at both time points, with the exception of dual-task stride length at time 2 (Pearson r = 0.55). Bland-Altman analysis for average gait speed and cadence indicated the average disagreement between systems was close to zero, suggesting little evidence for systematic bias between acquisition systems. Test-retest consistency measures using the smartphone revealed high to very high reliability for all measurements (ICC = 0.81-0.95). Conclusions: Our results indicate that sensors within a smartphone are capable of measuring spatio-temporal gait variables similar to a validated three-sensor inertial sensor system in single-task and dual-task conditions, and that data are reliable across a two-week time interval. A smartphone-based application might allow clinicians to objectively evaluate gait in the management of concussion with high ease-of-use and a relatively low financial burden.		[Howell, David R.] Childrens Hosp, Sports Med Ctr, Aurora, CO USA; [Howell, David R.] Univ Colorado, Sch Med, Dept Orthoped, Aurora, CO USA; [Howell, David R.; Taksir, Mikhail; Meehan, William P., III] Micheli Ctr Sports Injury Prevent, Waltham, MA USA; [Lugade, Vipul] Control One LLC, Albuquerque, NM USA; [Lugade, Vipul] Chiang Mai Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Chiang Mai, Thailand; [Meehan, William P., III] Boston Childrens Hosp, Dept Orthopaed, Div Sports Med, Boston, MA USA; [Meehan, William P., III] Harvard Med Sch, Dept Pediat, Boston, MA 02115 USA; [Meehan, William P., III] Harvard Med Sch, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Boston, MA 02115 USA; [Howell, David R.] Univ Colorado, Sch Med, Childrens Hosp Colorado, Ctr Sports Med, Aurora, CO 80045 USA								21							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000475256700001	35	Article; Article		
J	Janicijevic, Danica N.; Knezevic, Olivera M.; Mirkov, Dragan M.; Perez-Castilla, Alejandro; Petrovic, Milos R.; Garcia-Ramos, Amador								Magnitude and reliability of mechanical outputs obtained during loaded squat jumps performed from different knee angles								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				20	8			925	937		10.1080/14763141.2019.1618390			2021	2021	This study aimed to explore the effect of the knee angle and loading condition on the magnitude and reliability of squat jump (SJ) performance variables. Thirteen male sport sciences students performed in a random order 4 SJ types (knee angle of 80 degrees [SJ80], 90 degrees [SJ90], 100 degrees [SJ100], and self-preferred [SJ(pref)]) against 3 external loads. The push-off distance (HpO), jump height (Hmax), maximum force (Fmax) and maximum power (Pmax) were obtained from force platform recordings. The HpO during the SJ(pref) (43.4 +/- 6.4 cm) was always between SJ90 (44.3 +/- 4.8 cm) and SJ100 (40.5 +/- 4.2 cm). The magnitudes of Hmax, Fmax and Pmax were comparable or higher during the SJ(pref). The increase of the knee angle was associated with larger values of Fmax and Pmax, but no significant differences were observed for Hmax. An acceptable reliability was observed for HpO (coefficient of variation [CV]<= 5.09% and intraclass correlation coefficient [ICC]>= 0.78), Hmax (CV <= 6.06% and ICC >= 0.84), Fmax (CV <= 3.25% and ICC >= 0.96) and Pmax (CV <= 2.93% and ICC >= 0.96). Reliability did not systematically differ between the 4 SJ types. In conclusion, the higher magnitudes and comparable reliability of the performance variables obtained during the SJ(pref) support its use for testing lower-body ballistic performance against different loads.		[Janicijevic, Danica N.; Mirkov, Dragan M.; Petrovic, Milos R.] Univ Belgrade, Fac Sport & Phys Educ, Res Ctr, Belgrade, Serbia; [Knezevic, Olivera M.] Univ Belgrade, Inst Med Res, Belgrade, Serbia; [Perez-Castilla, Alejandro; Garcia-Ramos, Amador] Univ Granada, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Granada, Spain; [Garcia-Ramos, Amador] Catholic Univ Most Holy Concepcion, Dept Sports Sci & Phys Conditioning, Fac Educ, CIEDE, Concepcion, Chile; [Garcia-Ramos, Amador] Univ Granada, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Granada, Spain; [Garcia-Ramos, Amador] Catholic Univ Most Holy Concepcion, Dept Sports Sci & Phys Conditioning, Fac Educ, CIEDE, Concepcion, Chile								19							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000472834000001	31	Article; Article		
J	Nojiri, Shusuke; Yagi, Masahide; Mizukami, Yu; Ichihashi, Noriaki								Static stretching time required to reduce iliacus muscle stiffness								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2019.1620321				2019	Static stretching (SS) is an effective intervention to reduce muscle stiffness and is also performed for the iliopsoas muscle. The iliopsoas muscle consists of the iliacus and psoas major muscles, among which the former has a greater physiological cross-sectional area and hip flexion moment arm. Static stretching time required to reduce muscle stiffness can differ among muscles, and the required time for the iliacus muscle remains unclear. The purpose of this study was to investigate the time required to reduce iliacus muscle stiffness. Twenty-six healthy men participated in this study. A 1-min hip extension SS was performed five times. Shear elastic modulus, an index of muscle stiffness, of the iliacus muscle was measured using ultrasonic shear wave elastography before SS and immediately after each SS. One-way repeated analysis of variance showed a statistical effect of time on the shear elastic modulus. A paired t-test with Holm adjustment revealed that the shear elastic moduli after 1-5 SS were statistically lower than that before SS. In addition, the shear elastic modulus after 5 SS was statistically lower than that after 1 SS. The results suggested that the stiffness of the iliacus muscle decreased with 1-min SS and further decreased with 5-min SS.		[Nojiri, Shusuke; Yagi, Masahide; Mizukami, Yu; Ichihashi, Noriaki] Kyoto Univ, Grad Sch Med, Human Hlth Sci, Kyoto, Japan; [Nojiri, Shusuke] Kyoto Univ, Grad Sch Med, Human Hlth Sci, Kyoto, Japan								12							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000472834500001	37	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Tamura, Kosuke; Wilson, Jeffrey S.; Goldfeld, Keith; Puett, Robin C.; Klenosky, David B.; Harper, William A.; Troped, Philip J.								Accelerometer and GPS Data to Analyze Built Environments and Physical Activity								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				90	3			395	402		10.1080/02701367.2019.1609649			JUL 3 2019	2019	Purpose: Most built environment studies have quantified characteristics of the areas around participants' homes. However, the environmental exposures for physical activity (PA) are spatially dynamic rather than static. Thus, merged accelerometer and global positioning system (GPS) data were utilized to estimate associations between the built environment and PA among adults. Methods: Participants (N = 142) were recruited on trails in Massachusetts and wore an accelerometer and GPS unit for 1-4 days. Two binary outcomes were created: moderate-to-vigorous PA (MVPA vs. light PA-to-sedentary); and light-to-vigorous PA (LVPA vs. sedentary). Five built environment variables were created within 50-meter buffers around GPS points: population density, street density, land use mix (LUM), greenness, and walkability index. Generalized linear mixed models were fit to examine associations between environmental variables and both outcomes, adjusting for demographic covariates. Results: Overall, in the fully adjusted models, greenness was positively associated with MVPA and LVPA (odds ratios [ORs] = 1.15, 95% confidence interval [CI] = 1.03, 1.30 and 1.25, 95% CI = 1.12, 1.41, respectively). In contrast, street density and LUM were negatively associated with MVPA (ORs = 0.69, 95% CI = 0.67, 0.71 and 0.87, 95% CI = 0.78, 0.97, respectively) and LVPA (ORs = 0.79, 95% CI = 0.77, 0.81 and 0.81, 95% CI = 0.74, 0.90, respectively). Negative associations of population density and walkability with both outcomes reached statistical significance, yet the effect sizes were small. Conclusions: Concurrent monitoring of activity with accelerometers and GPS units allowed us to investigate relationships between objectively measured built environment around GPS points and minute-by-minute PA. Negative relationships between street density and LUM and PA contrast evidence from most built environment studies in adults. However, direct comparisons should be made with caution since most previous studies have focused on spatially fixed buffers around home locations, rather than the precise locations where PA occurs.		[Tamura, Kosuke] NIH, Bldg 10, Bethesda, MD 20892 USA; [Wilson, Jeffrey S.] Indiana Univ Purdue Univ, Indianapolis, IN 46202 USA; [Goldfeld, Keith] NYU, Sch Med, New York, NY 10003 USA; [Puett, Robin C.] Univ Maryland, College Pk, MD 20742 USA; [Klenosky, David B.; Harper, William A.] Purdue Univ, W Lafayette, IN 47907 USA; [Troped, Philip J.] Univ Massachusetts, Boston, MA 02125 USA; [Tamura, Kosuke] NHLBI, Cardiovasc Branch, Div Intramural Res, NIH, 10 Ctr Dr, Bethesda, MD 20892 USA								30							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000475236200001	37	Article; Article		
J	Valerio, Denis Fabricio; Berton, Ricardo; Barbieri, Joao Francisco; Calzavara, Jader; De Moraes, Antonio Carlos; Barroso, Renato								The effects of lifting straps in maximum strength, number of repetitions and muscle activation during lat pull-down								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2019.1610490				2019	The objective of the study was to investigate the effects of using lifting straps on the lat pull-down exercise on maximal strength, number of repetitions, and muscle activation. Twelve resistance-trained men participated (age 27 +/- 4 years, body mass 84 +/- 10 kg, height 177 +/- 6 cm, resistance training experience 6.6 +/- 2.4 years). All participants performed the 1RM tests and training protocols either with the lifting straps (WS) or without (WOS). Exercise sessions for both conditions (WS and WOS) consisted of 3 sets to concentric failure with a load of 70% of one repetition maximum (1RM) and rest intervals of 60 s. For the 1RM test, no difference was observed between WS and WOS conditions (96.5 +/- 12.7 kg and 96.6 +/- 11.9 kg, respectively). There were no differences between the WS and WOS conditions in the number of repetitions per set, total repetitions and latissimus dorsi muscle activation. In conclusion, the findings of this study demonstrate that the use of lifting straps in the lat pull-down exercise by resistance-trained individuals does not promote beneficial effect in the 1RM value, the number of repetitions performed with 70% of 1RM, and muscle activation.		[Valerio, Denis Fabricio; Barbieri, Joao Francisco; Calzavara, Jader; De Moraes, Antonio Carlos; Barroso, Renato] Univ Estadual Campinas, Sch Phys Educ, Campinas, SP, Brazil; [Berton, Ricardo] Univ Sao Paulo, Sch Phys Educ & Sport, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Barroso, Renato] Univ Estadual Campinas, Sch Phys Educ, Campinas, SP, Brazil								9							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000472917700001	22	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Tay, Zhong M.; Lin, Wei-Hsiu; Kee, Ying H.; Kong, Pui W.								Trampoline Versus Resistance Training in Young Adults: Effects on Knee Muscles Strength and Balance								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				90	4			452	460		10.1080/02701367.2019.1616045			OCT 2 2019	2019	Purpose: Trampoline parks are becoming popular in many countries, providing recreational facilities for children and adults. This study investigated the effects of trampoline training on knee muscles strength and balance in young adults. Methods: Twenty-six participants (14 males, 12 females) were randomized into trampoline training (TT) and resistance training (RT) groups to undergo a 6-week supervised intervention program (2 x 30 min per week). TT group performed basic trampoline exercises while the RT group performed resistance training targeting lower extremities muscles. Peak knee extension and flexion torque, postural sway characteristics, and Y balance test (YBT) performance were evaluated before and after the intervention. A mixed model analysis of variance (group x time) was applied. Results: After training there were significant improvements in knee extension torque (mean difference(post-pre) [95% CI], TT: 0.27 [0.00, 0.54] N center dot m/kg, RT: 0.31 [0.09,0.54] N center dot m/kg, p = .001), knee flexion torque (TT: 0.25 [0.17,0.33] N center dot m/kg, RT: 0.21 [0.08,0.34] N center dot m/kg, p < .001), and dynamic balance (YBT composite scores, mean difference(post-pre) [95% CI], TT: 4.9 [-0.3, 10.2]%, RT: 5.2 [2.4,8.0]%, p = .001). No difference between groups was found. Conclusion: Trampoline training can be as effective as resistance training for improving knee muscles strength and dynamic balance in young men and women.		[Tay, Zhong M.; Kee, Ying H.; Kong, Pui W.] Nanyang Technol Univ, Singapore, Singapore; [Lin, Wei-Hsiu] Natl Chiayi Univ, Chiayi, Taiwan; [Kong, Pui W.] Nanyang Technol Univ, Phys Educ & Sports Sci Acad Grp, Natl Inst Educ, 1 Nanyang Walk, Singapore 637616, Singapore								16							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000472955600001	38	Article; Article		
J	Alberton, Cristine Lima; Nunes, Gabriela Neves; Dos Santos Rau, Douglas Guerreiro; Bergamin, Marco; Cavalli, Adriana Schuller; Pinto, Stephanie Santana								Vertical Ground Reaction Force During a Water-Based Exercise Performed by Elderly Women: Equipment Use Effects								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				90	4			479	486		10.1080/02701367.2019.1620910			OCT 2 2019	2019	Purpose: The present study aimed to compare the vertical ground reaction force responses during the performance of the stationary running water-based exercise with and without equipment at different cadences by elderly women. Method: Nineteen elderly women (age: 68.6 +/- 5.0 years; body mass: 69.0 +/- 9.5 kg; height: 154.9 +/- 5.6 cm) completed one session consisting of the performance of the water-based stationary running with elbow flexion and extension immersed to the xiphoid process depth. The exercise was performed in three conditions, without equipment, with water-floating and with water-resistance equipment, at three cadences (80 b center dot min(-1), 100 b center dot min(-1) and maximal) in a randomized order. Peak and impulse of vertical ground reaction force were collected during the exercise using an underwater force plate. Repeated measures two-way ANOVA was used (alpha = 0.05). Results: Peak vertical ground reaction force (p < .001) and impulse (p <= 0.002) resulted in lower values for the water-floating use (0.42-0.48 BW and 0.07-0.13 N.s/BW) in comparison to the water-resistance equipment use (0.46-0.60 BW and 0.09-0.16 N.s/BW) and to the non-use of equipment (0.45-0.60 BW and 0.07-0.17 N.s/BW), except for the impulse at the maximal cadence. In addition, peak vertical ground reaction force at 80 b center dot min(-1) (p = .002) and impulse at the maximal cadence (p < .001) showed lower values compared to the other cadences. Conclusion: The use of water-floating equipment minimizes the vertical ground reaction force during the stationary running water-based exercise performed by elderly women regardless of the cadence.		[Alberton, Cristine Lima; Nunes, Gabriela Neves; Dos Santos Rau, Douglas Guerreiro; Cavalli, Adriana Schuller; Pinto, Stephanie Santana] Fed Univ Pelotas UFPEL, Pelotas, RS, Brazil; [Bergamin, Marco] Univ Padua, Padua, Italy; [Alberton, Cristine Lima] Fed Univ Pelotas UFPEL, Phys Educ Sch, Rua Luis de Camoes,625 Tres Vendas, BR-96055630 Pelotas, RS, Brazil								11							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000472391800001	33	Article; Article		
J	Dukan, Ruben; Bommier, Aude; Rousseau, Marc-Antoine; Boyer, Patrick								Arthroscopic knotless tape bridging with autologous platelet-rich fibrin gel augmentation: functional and structural results								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				47	4			455	462		10.1080/00913847.2019.1623994			OCT 2 2019	2019	Background: Rotator cuff repairs remain a source of iterative ruptures and disappointing functional results. In this goal, autologous platelet-rich plasma (PRP) has been used to improve tendon healing. This prospective study assessed the contribution of fully autologous gel concentrates (platelet concentrates and thrombin) on healing after cuff repair. Methods: A consecutive series of 69 patients who underwent primary arthroscopic knotless tape bridging primary cuff repair of supraspinatus tear were evaluated. Two groups were created (A: n = 32, B: n = 37). Autologous PRP gel, obtained preoperatively by PRP mixed with autologous thrombin extracted from platelet-poor plasma, was injected at bone-tendon interface at end of repair in group A. Gel structure avoided evacuation of concentrates with irrigation liquid. Constant, QuickDash and Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) scores were assessed pre-operatively and then successively post-operatively. Healing was assessed by 24-month control MRI according to Sugaya's classification. Sugaya 3, 4, and 5 were considered as iterative ruptures. Results: Average age was 56 years (+/- 7.8). Mean follow-up was similar: 28.6 months (+/- 3.3) vs 32.4 months (+/- 9.4). Mean preoperative Constant was similar: 53.4 (+/- 3.4) vs 54.6 (+/- 5.4). Group A patients received 3.5 ml (+/- 1.5 ml) of autologous PRP gel. No specific complication of injection was found. We observed higher trend in favour of PRP without significativity: Constant 86.7 (+/- 11.1) vs 81.6 (+/- 14.4), p = 0.11; VAS: 0.6 (+/- 0.3) vs 1.1 (+/- 0.9), p = 0.13; Forward flexion: 139.5 degrees (+/- 14.4 degrees) vs 137.7 degrees (+/- 16.5 degrees), p = 0.63; Strength score: 17.6 vs 14.8, p = 0.66; QuickDash: 6.2 (+/- 5.3) vs 8.2 (+/- 6.9), p = 0.32 . On MRI, 90% (n = 3) of repairs were healed in group A versus 86% (n = 5) in group B. Conclusion: In this preliminary study, the group treated with autologous PRP gel showed a trend towards better clinical and radiological results. These results were not significant at the last follow-up. Only significantly higher clinical results were found at 3 months. Study design: Therapeutic prospective comparative cohort study; Level of evidence III.		[Dukan, Ruben; Bommier, Aude; Rousseau, Marc-Antoine; Boyer, Patrick] Univ Paris Diderot, Bichat Hosp, Serv Orthopedie, 46 Rue Henri Huchard, F-75018 Paris, France; [Dukan, Ruben] Univ Paris Diderot, Bichat Hosp, Serv Orthopedie, 46 Rue Henri Huchard, F-75018 Paris, France								4							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000471502600001	32	Article; Article		
J	Norouzi, Ebrahim; Vaezmosavi, Mohammad; Gerber, Markus; Puehse, Uwe; Brand, Serge								Dual-task training on cognition and resistance training improved both balance and working memory in older people								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				47	4			471	478		10.1080/00913847.2019.1623996			OCT 2 2019	2019	Objectives: With increasing age, declines in executive functions and basic motor skills such as posture control, muscle strength, and balance performance have been observed. However, no intervention has focused on enhancing both executive functions and balance performance concomitantly. Accordingly, the aim of the present study is to investigate whether and to what extent two different dual-task interventions improved both working memory and balancing. Specifically, we examined whether either a motor-cognitive dual task training (mCdtt) or a motor-motor dual-task training (mMdtt) impacted more favorably on working memory and on balance performance among a sample of older adults. Methods: A total of 60 older males (mean age: 68.31 years; SD = 3.83) were randomly assigned either to the mCdtt, the mMdtt or to control condition. Balance performance and working memory performance were tested at baseline, four weeks later at study completion, and again 12 weeks later at follow-up. Results: Balance and working memory improved from baseline to post-intervention and to follow-up (significant Time effect), but more so in the mCdtt compared to the mMdtt condition (significant Time x Group interaction). Further, compared to the mMdtt condition, higher scores were observed in the mCdtt condition (significant Group effect). Conclusion: Dual-task interventions improved both balance performance and working memory, but more so if cognitive performance was specifically trained along with resistance training.		[Norouzi, Ebrahim] Urmia Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Motor Behav, Orumiyeh, Iran; [Vaezmosavi, Mohammad] Emam Hossien Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Tehran, Iran; [Gerber, Markus; Puehse, Uwe; Brand, Serge] Univ Basel, Dept Sport Exercise & Hlth, Div Sport & Psychosocial Hlth, Basel, Switzerland; [Brand, Serge] Kermanshah Univ Med Sci, Subst Abuse Prevent Res Ctr, Kermanshah, Iran; [Brand, Serge] Kermanshah Univ Med Sci, Sleep Disorders Res Ctr, Kermanshah, Iran; [Brand, Serge] Univ Basel, Psychiat Clin UPK, Ctr Affect Stress & Sleep Disorders, Basel, Switzerland; [Norouzi, Ebrahim] Urmia Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Motor Behav, Orumiyeh, Iran								97							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000471517300001	36	Article; Article		
J	Chaabene, Helmi; Negra, Yassine; Capranica, Laura; Prieske, Olaf; Granacher, Urs								A Needs Analysis of Karate Kumite With Recommendations for Performance Testing and Training								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				41	3			35	46		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000445			JUN 2019	2019	AN EFFECTIVE TRAINING PROGRAM NEEDS TO BE CUSTOMIZED TO THE SPECIFIC DEMANDS OF THE RESPECTIVE SPORT. THEREFORE, IT IS IMPORTANT TO CONDUCT A NEEDS ANALYSIS TO GAIN INFORMATION ON THE UNIQUE CHARACTERISTICS OF THE SPORT. THE OBJECTIVES OF THIS REVIEW WERE (A) TO CONDUCT A SYSTEMATIC NEEDS ANALYSIS OF KARATE KUMITE AND (B) TO PROVIDE PRACTICAL RECOMMENDATIONS FOR SPORT-SPECIFIC PERFORMANCE TESTING AND TRAINING OF KARATE KUMITE ATHLETES.		[Chaabene, Helmi; Prieske, Olaf; Granacher, Urs] Univ Potsdam, Res Focus Cognit Sci, Div Training & Movement Sci, Potsdam, Germany; [Chaabene, Helmi] Univ Jendouba, High Inst Sports & Phys Educ, Kef, Tunisia; [Negra, Yassine] Univ La Manouba, Higher Inst Sports & Phys Educ Ksar Said, Sport Performance Hlth & Soc, Res Unit UR17JS01, Manouba, Tunisia; [Capranica, Laura] Univ Rome Foro Italico, Dept Human Movement & Sport Sci, Rome, Italy; [Chaabene, Helmi] Univ Potsdam, Res Focus Cognit Sci, Div Training & Movement Sci, Potsdam, Germany; [Chaabene, Helmi] Univ Jendouba, High Inst Sports & Phys Educ, Kef, Tunisia								19							Sport Sciences	WOS:000480695500003	53	Article; Article		
J	Brearley, Simon; Bishop, Chris								Transfer of Training: How Specific Should We Be?								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				41	3			97	109		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000450			JUN 2019	2019	A SPECTRUM OF APPROACHES EXISTS AMONG STRENGTH COACHES AS TO THE DEGREE OF SPECIFICITY REQUIRED TO OPTIMIZE TRAINING TRANSFER TO TARGETED ATHLETIC PERFORMANCE. THE "PROBLEM" WITH SPECIFICITY IS THAT IT IS IN CONFLICT WITH OVERLOAD. SOME GIVING PRECEDENCE TO SPECIFICITY FIND A SOLUTION IN APPLYING OVERLOAD THROUGH VARIATION, WHEREAS OTHERS SEEK TO TRADITIONALLY OVERLOAD 1 OR 2 ELEMENTS OF THE SPORTING MOVEMENT. ADVOCATES OF GENERAL TRAINING MORE READILY SACRIFICE SPECIFICITY FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF CAPACITIES. IN APPLYING THESE CONTRASTING APPROACHES TO THE HYPOTHETICAL TARGET TASK OF ACCELERATIVE SPRINTING, THIS REVIEW COMBINES EVIDENCE- AND LOGIC-LED ARGUMENTS TO EVALUATE THE EFFICACY OF EACH. AS SUCH, A SUMMARY OF LITERATURE IS PRESENTED. IN MOST CONTEXTS, A MIXED-METHODS APPROACH REMAINS RECOMMENDED AS DEGREE OF TRANSFER TO TARGETED ATHLETIC PERFORMANCE APPEARS AS DEPENDENT ON ATHLETE STATUS AS IT IS ON THE SPECIFICITY OF THE TRAINING TASK.		[Brearley, Simon] Cranleigh Sch, Strength & Conditioning Dept, Surrey, England; [Bishop, Chris] Middlesex Univ, London Sport Inst, London, England; [Brearley, Simon] Cranleigh Sch, Strength & Conditioning Dept, Surrey, England								52							Sport Sciences	WOS:000480695500008	61	Article; Article		
J	Botonis, Petros G.; Toubekis, Argyris G.; Terzis, Gerasimos D.; Geladas, Nickos D.; Platanou, Theodoros I.								Effects of Concurrent Strength and High-Intensity Interval Training on Fitness and Match Performance in Water-Polo Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				67	1			175	184		10.2478/hukin-2019-0001			JUN 2019	2019	The purpose of the study was to examine changes in performance and match-induced fatigue over a 27-week training period. Eight national-level water-polo players performed a 5 x 200 m swimming test to calculate velocities corresponding to blood lactate concentration of 4.0, 5.0 and 10.0 mmol.l(-1) at three testing periods: i) baseline, ii) end of the pre-season (8 weeks of 4 x 4 min swimming bouts), iii) end of the in-season (8 weeks of 8 x 20 m swimming sprints). During each testing period, four competitive matches were played and repeated sprints (8 x 20 m), 400 m swimming, and shooting accuracy were evaluated at the pre- and post-match. Repeated sprint tests were also conducted at mid-game. Analysis of variance for repeated measures was used to detect changes among training periods and within games. Swimming velocities corresponding to 4.0, 5.0 and 10.0 mmol.l(-1) were increased after the pre-season by 9%, 7.7%, and 6.7% (p < 0.01) and decreased following the in-season compared to the pre-season by 8.9%, 7.0% and 3.3% (p < 0.01), respectively. Pre-match repeated sprints and 400 m performance were improved after the pre-season by 4.3% and 3.8% (p < 0.01) and decreased by similar to 3% after the in-season compared to the pre-season (p < 0.01). Mid-and post-match repeated sprint performance was improved after the pre-season by 4.8 +/- 1.4% and 4.4 +/- 1.1% and remained unchanged after the in-season compared to the pre-season. Post-match 400 m speed was improved by 3.2% after the pre-season (p < 0.01) and decreased by 2.8% after the in-season (p = 0.04). Pre-season training improved players' aerobic endurance and performance. Intensified in-season training decreased aerobic power, endurance, and pre-match performance while maintaining match repeated sprint performance.		[Botonis, Petros G.; Toubekis, Argyris G.; Platanou, Theodoros I.] Univ Athens, Sch Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Div Aquat Sports, Athens, Greece; [Toubekis, Argyris G.; Terzis, Gerasimos D.] Univ Athens, Sch Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Sports Performance Lab, Athens, Greece; [Geladas, Nickos D.] Univ Athens, Sch Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Div Sport Med & Biol Exercise, Athens, Greece; [Botonis, Petros G.] Univ Athens, Sch Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Dept Aquat Sports, 41 Ethnikis Antistasis Ave, Dafni 17237, Greece								8							Sport Sciences	WOS:000474738900015	30	Article; Article		
J	Papanikolaou, Konstantinos; Chatzinikolaou, Athanasios; Pontidis, Theodoros; Avloniti, Alexandra; Deli, Chariklia K.; Leontsini, Diamanda; Draganidis, Dimitrios; Tsimeas, Panagiotis D.; Rafailakis, Lefteris; Jamurtas, Athanasios Z.; Krustrup, Peter; Mohr, Magni; Fatouros, Ioannis G.								The Yo-Yo Intermittent Endurance Level 2 Test: Reliability of Performance Scores, Physiological Responses and Overload Characteristics in Competitive Soccer, Basketball and Volleyball Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				67	1			223	233		10.2478/hukin-2018-0091			JUN 2019	2019	The purpose of this study was to evaluate the reliability and reproducibility of the physiological and overload features of the Yo-Yo intermittent endurance test level 2 (Yo-Yo IE2) in competitive male soccer (n = 20), basketball (n = 11), and volleyball players (n = 10). The participants completed Yo-Yo IE2 tests on three separate occasions with assessment of performance, heart rate, running speed, accelerations, decelerations and body load using GPS instrumentation. The intra-class correlation coefficient index, confidence intervals and coefficients of variation were calculated to assess the reliability of the test. Intra-class correlation coefficients for test-retest trials in the total sample ranged from large to nearly perfect (total distance: 0.896; mean speed: 0.535; maximum speed: 0.715; mean HR: 0.876; maximum HR: 0.866; body load: 0.865). The coefficients of variation for distance, mean speed, HR response, as well as acceleration and deceleration scores for test-retest trials ranged from 1.2 to 12.5% with no differences observed among particular sport disciplines. The CV for shuttles performed ranged from 4.4 to 5.5% in all sports. Similar results were obtained for the three different categories of players tested. These results suggest that the Yo-Yo IE2 test appears to be a reliable alternative for evaluating the ability to perform intermittent high-intensity running in different outdoor and indoor team sports. Players may need one or two familiarization tests to ensure valid assessment of intermittent endurance capacity. It appears that the Yo-Yo IE2 test incorporates accelerations and decelerations in a consistent and reproducible fashion.		[Papanikolaou, Konstantinos; Deli, Chariklia K.; Draganidis, Dimitrios; Tsimeas, Panagiotis D.; Rafailakis, Lefteris; Jamurtas, Athanasios Z.; Fatouros, Ioannis G.] Univ Thessaly, Sch Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Karies 42100, Trikala, Greece; [Chatzinikolaou, Athanasios; Pontidis, Theodoros; Avloniti, Alexandra; Leontsini, Diamanda] Democritus Univ Thrace, Sch Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Komotini 69100, Greece; [Krustrup, Peter] Univ Southern Denmark, SDU Sport & Hlth Sci Cluster SHSC, Dept Sports Sci & Clin Biomech, Odense, Denmark; [Krustrup, Peter] Univ Exeter, Coll Life & Environm Sci, Sport & Hlth Sci, Exeter, Devon, England; [Mohr, Magni] Univ Faroe Islands, Fac Hlth Sci, Ctr Hlth Sci, Jonas Broncksgota 25,3rd Floor, Torshavn, Denmark; [Mohr, Magni] Univ Gothenburg, Dept Food & Nutr & Sports Sci, Ctr Hlth & Human Performance, Gothenburg, Sweden; [Fatouros, Ioannis G.] Univ Campus, Sch Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Trikala 42100, Karies, Greece								9							Sport Sciences	WOS:000474738900019	36	Article; Article		
J	Lima, Ricardo Franco; Palao, Jose M.; Clemente, Filipe Manuel								Jump Performance During Official Matches in Elite Volleyball Players: A Pilot Study								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				67	1			259	269		10.2478/hukin-2018-0080			JUN 2019	2019	The purpose of this pilot study was to assess the types and intensity of the jumps that professional male volleyball players executed. Seven male elite volleyball players participated in this study. The sample was composed of 1599 jumps performed in 15 sets of five official matches of the regular season of a professional team. A descriptive pilot study design was implemented to analyze the types of jumps and jump heights by particular playing positions (outside hitters, setter, and middle blockers). The jump height was recorded using an inertial measurement device. No significant differences in the heights of jumps were found between the sets of the matches. Different players' roles had different frequencies for different types of jumps and jump intensities. The data provide reference values of the type of jumps performed, their frequency, and intensity by particular playing positions in competition. The results confirm the need to individualize the practice and training of volleyball players according to the players' roles. Extensive studies are needed to provide more information about repeated jump ability in volleyball players.		[Lima, Ricardo Franco; Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Escola Super Desporto & Lazer, Inst Politecn Viana Castelo, Melgaco, Portugal; [Palao, Jose M.] Univ Wisconsin Parkside, Dept Hlth Exercise Sci & Sport Management, Kenosha, WI USA; [Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Inst Telecomun, Delegacao da Covilha, Covilha, Portugal; [Lima, Ricardo Franco] Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev CIDESD, Vila Real, Portugal; [Lima, Ricardo Franco] Complexo Desportivo Lazer Comendador Rui Solheiro, Escola Super Desporto & Lazer, P-4960320 Melgaco, Portugal								51							Sport Sciences	WOS:000474738900022	24	Article; Article		
J	Zhang, Shen; Fu, Weijie; Liu, Yu								Changes in Lower-Limb Biomechanics, Soft Tissue Vibrations, and Muscle Activation During Unanticipated Bipedal Landings								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				67	1			25	35		10.2478/hukin-2019-0003			JUN 2019	2019	We aimed to explore the biomechanical differences between the anticipated drop jump and unanticipated drop landing. Twelve male collegiate basketball players completed an anticipated drop jump and unanticipated drop landing with double legs from a height of 30 cm. Kinematics, impact force, soft tissue vibrations, and electromyographic (EMG) amplitudes of the dominant leg were collected simultaneously. The anticipated drop jump showed more flexed lower limbs during landing and increased range of motion compared to the unanticipated drop landing. The anticipated drop jump also had lower impact force, lesser soft tissue vibration, and a greater damp coefficient at the thigh muscles compared with the unanticipated drop landing. Significant increases in the EMG amplitudes of the tibialis anterior, lateral gastrocnemius, rectus femoris, and biceps femoris were observed in the anticipated drop jump during the pre/post-activation and downward phases. The anticipated drop jump presented more optimized landing posture control with more joint flexion, lower impact force, less soft tissue vibrations, and full preparation of muscle activations compared with the unanticipated drop landing.		[Zhang, Shen; Fu, Weijie; Liu, Yu] Shanghai Univ Sport, Key Lab Exercise & Hlth Sci, Minist Educ, Shanghai 200438, Peoples R China; [Fu, Weijie; Liu, Yu] Shanghai Univ Sport, Key Lab Exercise & Hlth Sci, Minist Educ, Shanghai 200438, Peoples R China								7							Sport Sciences	WOS:000474738900003	41	Article; Article		
J	Zouita, Amira Ben Moussa; Zouita, Sghaier; Dziri, Catherine; Brughelli, Matt; Behm, David G.; Chaouachi, Anis								Differences in Trunk Strength Between Weightlifters and Wrestlers								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				67	1			5	15		10.2478/hukin-2019-0007			JUN 2019	2019	Investigations of trunk strength with high-level athletes are limited. The purpose of this study was to compare maximal concentric isokinetic trunk extension and flexion torque, power, and strength ratios between high-level weightlifters (n = 20), wrestlers (n = 20) and a control (n = 25) population. Isokinetic dynamometry was used to evaluate peak torque, power and strength ratios during seated trunk extension/flexion actions at 60 degrees/s and 180 degrees/s. There were no significant anthropometric differences between groups. Overall, trunk isokinetic force variables as a function of the increase in angular velocity, showed a decrease in peak torque, but an increase in power (athletes and controls). Compared to the control group, athletes demonstrated significantly higher trunk extension torque (+67.05 N.m, ES = 0.81) and power (+49.28 N.m, ES = 0.82) at 60 degrees/s and 180 degrees/s, respectively. Athletes produced significantly greater trunk flexion-extension ratios at 60 degrees/s and 180 degrees/s (ES = 0.80-0.47) than controls. Weightlifters and wrestlers exhibited significantly higher extensor than flexor torque at all angular velocities. Weightlifters demonstrated greater torque (ES = 0.79) than wrestlers at 60 degrees/s. The wrestlers' average power was significantly higher (ES = 0.43) than weightlifters at 180 degrees/s. There were no significant ratio differences between wrestlers (66.23%) and weightlifters (72.06%). Weightlifters had stronger extensor muscles at 60 degrees/s, whereas wrestlers had higher power at 180 degrees/s for extensor muscles. It was postulated that the extensor muscles were stronger than the flexors to ensure trunk stabilisation, and for prevention of injuries. These differences seem to be associated to the movements that occur in each sport in terms of both muscle actions and contractile forces.		[Zouita, Amira Ben Moussa; Zouita, Sghaier] Ksar Said Univ Manouba, Higher Inst Sport & Phys Educ, Tunis, Tunisia; [Zouita, Sghaier; Chaouachi, Anis] Natl Ctr Med & Sci Sports CNMSS, Tunisian Res Lab Sports Performance Optimizat, Tunis, Tunisia; [Dziri, Catherine] Natl Inst Orthoped MT Kassab, Dept Med Phys & Funct Rehabil, Tunis, Tunisia; [Brughelli, Matt; Chaouachi, Anis] AUT Univ, Sports Performance Res Inst NewZealand, Auckland, New Zealand; [Behm, David G.] Mem Univ Newfoundland, Sch Human Kinet & Recreat, St John, NF, Canada; [Chaouachi, Anis] PVF Football Acad, Hang Yen, Vietnam; [Behm, David G.] Mem Univ Newfoundland, Sch Human Kinet & Recreat, St John, NF, Canada								14							Sport Sciences	WOS:000474738900001	58	Article; Article		
J	Lozano-Berges, Gabriel; Matute-Llorente, Angel; Gomez-Bruton, Alejandro; Gonzalez-Aguero, Alex; Vicente-Rodriguez, German; Antonio Casajus, Jose								Is Playing Soccer More Osteogenic for Females Before the Pubertal Spurt?								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				67	1			153	161		10.2478/hukin-2018-0074			JUN 2019	2019	The aims of this study were to assess bone mass in children and adolescent soccer players and to evaluate the influence of both gender and pubertal status on bone mass. A total of 110 soccer players (75 males / 35 females; 12.73 +/- 0.65 / 12.76 +/- 0.59 years) participated in this cross-sectional study. They were divided into two groups according to their pubertal status. Bone and lean masses were measured with Dual-energy X-ray Absorptiometry. An independent t-test and an adjusted by subtotal lean and training experience multivariate analysis of covariance were used to analyse the differences in bone mass values between genders and maturity status. Female soccer players presented higher bone mass values than their male counterparts in most of the measured weight-bearing sites. Moreover, when stratifying by pubertal status, peripubertal and postpubertal females had higher subtotal body and lumbar spine bone mass than males. Comparing between pubertal status groups before adjustment, both male and female postpubertal players showed higher bone mass than their pubertal counterparts. After adjusting, these differences disappeared and, in fact results were inverted as bone mass at the femoral neck was higher in both male and female peripubertal soccer players than in postpubertal players. Bone mass seems to be more intensely stimulated by playing soccer in female than male players, particularly in the lumbar spine. The results of peripubertal players showing higher bone mass at the femoral neck after adjusting suggest that playing soccer during the peripubertal stage could be an effective activity to achieve optimal bone mass values.		[Lozano-Berges, Gabriel; Matute-Llorente, Angel; Gomez-Bruton, Alejandro; Gonzalez-Aguero, Alex; Vicente-Rodriguez, German; Antonio Casajus, Jose] Univ Zaragoza, GENUD Growth Exercise NUtr & Dev Res Grp, Zaragoza, Spain; [Lozano-Berges, Gabriel; Matute-Llorente, Angel; Gomez-Bruton, Alejandro; Gonzalez-Aguero, Alex; Vicente-Rodriguez, German] Univ Zaragoza, Dept Physiatry & Nursing, Fac Hlth & Sport Sci, Huesca, Spain; [Lozano-Berges, Gabriel; Matute-Llorente, Angel; Gomez-Bruton, Alejandro; Gonzalez-Aguero, Alex; Vicente-Rodriguez, German; Antonio Casajus, Jose] Univ Zaragoza, CITA, AgriFood Inst Aragon, Zaragoza, Spain; [Matute-Llorente, Angel; Gomez-Bruton, Alejandro; Gonzalez-Aguero, Alex; Vicente-Rodriguez, German; Antonio Casajus, Jose] CIBER Obes & Nutr Physiopathol CIBERObn, Madrid, Spain; [Antonio Casajus, Jose] Univ Zaragoza, Dept Physiatry & Nursing, Fac Hlth Sci, Zaragoza, Spain; [Antonio Casajus, Jose] Univ Zaragoza, Fac Hlth Sci, GENUD Growth Exercise NUtr & Dev Res Grp, Zaragoza, Spain								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:000474738900013	31	Article; Article		
J	Sanchez-Sanchez, Javier; Sanchez, Mario; Hernandez, Daniel; Gonzalo-Skok, Oliver; Casamichana, David; Ramirez-Campillo, Rodrigo; Nakamura, Fabio Y.								Physical Performance During Soccer-7 Competition and Small-Sided Games in U12 Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				67	1			281	290		10.2478/hukin-2018-0082			JUN 2019	2019	The aim of this study was to compare the activity profile (external loads) during soccer-7 competition versus 6 vs 6 small-sided games (SSGs) in U12 players. Peak velocity (V-max), total distance completed (DT), total distance relative to match duration, the percentage of DT in acceleration (%DAC) and in deceleration (%DEA), and the percentage of DT at different speeds were recorded. Six types of SSGs were randomly implemented: without pitch orientation-delimitation and with a limit of three ball-contacts per player (3TOU), with no limit of ball-contacts (MAN), with a greater number of players as internal-offensive wildcard players (2WI) or external-offensive wildcard players (4WE); and with pitch orientation-delimitation and crossing the rival goal-line while dribbling the ball without goalkeepers (INV) or using official goalkeepers (GKP). The physical demands of SSGs were compared with the average of two soccer-7 match plays. During soccer-7 match plays a lower %DAC and %DEA (p < 0.05) were observed compared to 2WI, 4WE, INV and GKP, and to INV and GKP, respectively. The V-max and %HI were greater (p < 0.05) in soccer-7 match plays compared to all SSGs. In conclusion, the demands imposed on U12 players during different formats of SSGs differ from the soccer-7 match play demands, presenting a low stimulation of the actions performed at high-speed and an adequate simulation of acceleration-deceleration actions.		[Sanchez-Sanchez, Javier; Sanchez, Mario; Hernandez, Daniel; Gonzalo-Skok, Oliver; Casamichana, David; Ramirez-Campillo, Rodrigo; Nakamura, Fabio Y.] Univ Pontificia Salamanca, Grp Planning & Assessment Training & Athlet Perfo, Salamanca, Spain; [Gonzalo-Skok, Oliver; Casamichana, David] Univ San Jorge, Zaragoza, Spain; Univ Europea Atlantico, Santander, Spain; [Ramirez-Campillo, Rodrigo] Univ Los Lagos, Res Nucleus Hlth Phys Act & Sports, Dept Phys Act Sci, Osorno, Chile; [Nakamura, Fabio Y.] G dAnnunzio Univ Chieti Pescara, Dept Med & Aging Sci, Via Vestini 31, I-66100 Chieti, Italy; [Nakamura, Fabio Y.] James Cook Univ, Coll Healthcare Sci, Townsville, Qld, Australia; [Nakamura, Fabio Y.] G dAnnunzio Univ Chieti Pescara, Dept Med & Aging Sci, Via Vestini 31, I-66100 Chieti, Italy								14							Sport Sciences	WOS:000474738900024	32	Article; Article		
J	Rohleder, Jonas; Vogt, Tobias								Changes in Floor Exercise Characteristics in World Elite Male Gymnasts								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				67	1			291	300		10.2478/hukin-2018-0083			JUN 2019	2019	In artistic gymnastics, athletes need to compose their floor exercise routines in accordance with the Code of Points which is provided by the International Gymnastics Federation. In view of the latest rule modifications subsequent to the 2016 Olympic Games, this study investigates recent changes in judges' scorings with respect to changes in the characteristics of floor exercise routines in world elite male gymnasts. Therefore, all floor exercise routines (n = 25) performed in the men's floor exercise finals at the World Championships in 2013 (WC13), 2015 (WC15) and 2017 (WC17) were examined using video analysis. Gymnasts' scores (difficulty, execution and final scores), element group distributions and further exercise characteristics (e.g., the total amount of somersaults, twists, and landing errors) were defined as variables. Decreases in difficulty and execution scores were revealed for WC17 compared to WC15 and WC13, respectively (p < .01). Additionally, a decrease in the number of backward jumped elements was observed at WC17 (p < .01), whereas the number of forward jumped elements increased (p < .01). Furthermore, a significantly increased number of landing errors (p < .05) negatively correlated with the decrease in execution (p < .001) and final scores (p < .05). To conclude, current compositional trends in men's floor exercise encourage to include difficult forward jumps and multiple twisting connections in consideration of prudent teaching with respect to the gymnasts' individual abilities and the decisive influence of stick landings.		[Rohleder, Jonas; Vogt, Tobias] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Profess Sport Educ & Sport Qualificat, Sportpk Mungersdorf 6, D-50933 Cologne, Germany; [Rohleder, Jonas] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Profess Sport Educ & Sport Qualificat, Sportpk Mungersdorf 6, D-50933 Cologne, Germany								6							Sport Sciences	WOS:000474738900025	17	Article; Article		
J	Fernandez-Rio, Javier; Santos, Luis; Fernandez-Garcia, Benjamin; Robles, Roberto; Casquero, Ivan; Paredes, Raul								Effects of Slackline Training on Acceleration, Agility, Jump Performance and Postural Control in Youth Soccer Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				67	1			235	245		10.2478/hukin-2018-0078			JUN 2019	2019	The goal of this study was to assess the effects of a supervised slackline training program in a group of soccer players. Thirty-four male division I under-19 players (16.64 +/- 0.81 years) agreed to participate in the study. They were randomly divided into an experimental group (EG) and a control group (CG). The first group (EG) followed a 6-week supervised slackline training program (3 sessions/week; 5-9 min/session), while the CG performed only regular soccer training. Several variables were assessed in all participants: acceleration (20-m sprint test), agility (90 degrees turns test), jump performance (squat jump, countermovement jump), and postural control (Center of Pressure (CoP) testing: length, area, speed, Xmean, Ymean, Xspeed, Yspeed, Xdeviation, Ydeviation). Ratings of perceived exertion and local muscle ratings of perceived exertions were also recorded after each slackline training session. At post-tests, there was a significant increase only in the EG in acceleration, agility, squat jump and countermovement jump performance, as well as several CoP variables: area in the bipedal support on a firm surface, and length, area and speed in the left leg on a firm surface. The program was rated as "somewhat hard" by the players, while quadriceps, gastrocnemius and tibialis anterior were the most exerted muscles while slacklining. In conclusion, slackline training can be an effective training tool for young, high-level soccer players.		[Fernandez-Rio, Javier; Casquero, Ivan; Paredes, Raul] Univ Oviedo, Dept Educ Sci, Oviedo, Spain; [Santos, Luis] Univ Leon, Dept Sport Sci, Leon, Spain; [Fernandez-Garcia, Benjamin] Univ Oviedo, Dept Funct Biol, Oviedo, Spain; [Robles, Roberto] RC Deport Coruna, Coruna, Spain; [Fernandez-Rio, Javier] Univ Oviedo, C Aniceto Sela,S-N,Despacho 219, Oviedo 33005, Spain								12							Sport Sciences	WOS:000474738900020	36	Article; Article		
J	Selles-Perez, Sergio; Fernandez-Saez, Jose; Ferriz-Valero, Alberto; Esteve-Lanao, Jonathan; Cejuela, Roberto								Changes in Triathletes' Performance and Body Composition During a Specific Training Period for a Half-Ironman Race								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				67	1			185	198		10.2478/hukin-2018-0077			JUN 2019	2019	The number of recreational athletes completing a Half-Ironman triathlon has increased exponentially in recent years. However, there is a lack of research on how to train for this kind of an event. The purpose of this study was thus to analyse triathletes' changes in performance and body composition following a triathlon-specific training period. Fourteen male amateur triathletes completed a 7-week period of general training and a 13-week period of specific training for a Half-Ironman triathlon. Anthropometric measures and performance tests were carried out to assess the effects of the specific training program. Results showed that the pre-test value of VO2max for cycling was inversely correlated not only with the percentage of change in cycling performance, but also with the percentage change in several variables of running performance. In swimming, inverse correlations were observed between the time of the first 800 m test and the time percentage change for this test, but not with the percentage change in the performance of other segments of the race. Moreover, the somatotype component of endomorphy and the fat mass percentage of the first anthropometry were highly correlated with the percentage change in VO2max in the run segment. These results highlight the importance of providing individualised training, considering that the same training program had a different impact on recreational triathletes belonging to the same group. Amateur athletes with higher initial performance levels probably need a greater amount of training to achieve improved adaptation.		[Selles-Perez, Sergio; Ferriz-Valero, Alberto; Esteve-Lanao, Jonathan; Cejuela, Roberto] Univ Alicante, Dept Phys Educ & Sports, San Vicente Del Raspeig, Spain; [Fernandez-Saez, Jose] Univ Alicante, Publ Hlth Res Grp, San Vicente Del Raspeig, Spain; [Selles-Perez, Sergio] Univ Alicante, Fac Educ, Aeroplano St S-N, San Vicente Del Raspeig 03690, Alicante, Spain								12							Sport Sciences	WOS:000474738900016	57	Article; Article		
J	Duarte, Joao P.; Coelho-e-Silva, Manuel J.; Costa, Daniela; Martinho, Diogo; Luz, Leonardo G. O.; Rebelo-Goncalves, Ricardo; Valente-dos-Santos, Joao; Figueiredo, Antonio; Seabra, Andre; Malina, Robert M.								Repeated Sprint Ability in Youth Soccer Players: Independent and Combined Effects of Relative Age and Biological Maturity								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				67	1			209	221		10.2478/hukin-2018-0090			JUN 2019	2019	The objective of the study was to examine the effects of the relative age effect (RAE) and predicted maturity status on body size and repeated sprint ability (RSA: 7 x 34.2 m / 25 s interval) in youth soccer. The sample was composed of 197 male players aged 13-14 years. Body mass, stature, and sitting height were measured, RSA was assessed in the field, and age at peak height velocity (APHV) was predicted. Factorial ANOVA tested the independent and combined effects of RAE given by birth quarters (BQs) and maturity status on dependent variables. Players born in the second birth quarter (BQ2) were significantly taller (F = 4.28, p < 0.01) than their peers born in BQ1 and BQ3. Additionally, players born in BQ2 performed better than players born in BQ4 in RSA total time and ideal time (F ranged between 4.81 and 4.90, p < 0.01), while players born in BQ1 exhibited a lower RSA fatigue index compared to those born in BQ4 (F = 2.90, p < 0.05). The interaction of the BQ and maturity status was a significant source of inter-individual variation for body size (F ranged between 64.92 and 105.57; p < 0.01) and RSA output (F ranged between 4.082 and 6.76; p < 0.05). In summary, being relatively older and, simultaneously, advanced in maturity status corresponds to a substantial advantage in characteristics that are related to soccer-specific fitness.		[Duarte, Joao P.; Coelho-e-Silva, Manuel J.; Costa, Daniela; Martinho, Diogo; Figueiredo, Antonio] Univ Coimbra, Fac Sport Sci & Phys Educ, Coimbra, Portugal; [Duarte, Joao P.; Coelho-e-Silva, Manuel J.; Costa, Daniela; Martinho, Diogo; Luz, Leonardo G. O.; Rebelo-Goncalves, Ricardo; Valente-dos-Santos, Joao; Figueiredo, Antonio] Univ Coimbra, CIDAF Uid Dtp 04213 2019, Coimbra, Portugal; [Duarte, Joao P.] Portuguese Fdn Sci & Technol SFRH BD 101083 2014, Lisbon, Portugal; [Martinho, Diogo] Portuguese Fdn Sci & Technol SFRH BD 121441 2016, Lisbon, Portugal; [Luz, Leonardo G. O.] Fed Univ Alagoas UFAL, LACAPS, Arapiraca, Brazil; [Valente-dos-Santos, Joao] Portuguese Fdn Sci & Technol SFRH BPD 100470 2014, Lisbon, Portugal; [Valente-dos-Santos, Joao] Univ Coimbra, Inst Biomed Imaging & Life Sci IBILI, Coimbra, Portugal; [Valente-dos-Santos, Joao] Lusofona Univ Humanities & Technol, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Lisbon, Portugal; [Seabra, Andre] Univ Porto, CIAFEL, Porto, Portugal; [Malina, Robert M.] Univ Texas Austin, Dept Kinesiol & Hlth Educ, Austin, TX 78712 USA; [Coelho-e-Silva, Manuel J.] Univ Coimbra, Fac Sport Sci & Phys Educ, Coimbra, Portugal; [Coelho-e-Silva, Manuel J.] Univ Coimbra, Pavilhao 3, Coimbra, Portugal								29							Sport Sciences	WOS:000474738900018	43	Article; Article		
J	Barbosa, Augusto Carvalho; Valadao, Pedro Frederico; Wilke, Carolina Franco; Martins, Felipe de Souza; Pinto Silva, Dellano Cezar; Volkers, Scott Alexander; Vilela Lima, Claudio Olivio; Claudino Ribeiro, Jose Ricardo; Bittencourt, Natalia Franco; Barroso, Renato								The road to 21 seconds: A case report of a 2016 Olympic swimming sprinter								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				14	3			393	405		10.1177/1747954119828885			JUN 2019	2019	This study aimed to describe training characteristics as well as physical, technical and morphological changes of an elite Olympic swimming sprinter throughout his road to 21 s in the 50 m freestyle. Over a similar to 2.5-year period, the following assessments were obtained: external training load, competitive performance, instantaneous swimming speed, tethered force, dry-land maximal dynamic strength in bench press, pull-up and back squat and body composition. From 2014 to 2016, the athlete dropped 3.3% of his initial best time by reducing total swimming time (i.e. the total time minus 15-m start time - from 17.07 s to 16.21 s) and improving the stroke length (from 1.83 m to 2.00 m). Dry-land strength (bench press: 27.3%, pull-up: 9.1% and back squat: 37.5%) and tethered force (impulse: 30.5%) increased. Competitive performance was associated to average (r = -0.82, p = 0.001) and peak speeds (r = -0.71; p = 0.009) and to lean body mass (r = -0.55; p = 0.03), which increased in the first year and remained stable thereafter. External training load presented a polarized pattern in all training seasons. This swimmer reached the sub-22 s mark by reducing total swimming time, which was effected by a longer stroke length. He also considerably improved his dry-land strength and tethered force levels likely due to a combination of neural and morphological adaptations.		[Barbosa, Augusto Carvalho; Valadao, Pedro Frederico; Wilke, Carolina Franco; Martins, Felipe de Souza; Pinto Silva, Dellano Cezar; Volkers, Scott Alexander; Vilela Lima, Claudio Olivio; Claudino Ribeiro, Jose Ricardo; Bittencourt, Natalia Franco] Minas Tenis Clube, Sport Sci Dept, Rua Bahia 2244, BR-30160012 Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil; [Barbosa, Augusto Carvalho] Meazure Sport Sci, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Valadao, Pedro Frederico] Univ Jyvaskyla, Fac Sport & Hlth Sci, Neuromuscular Res Ctr, Jyvaskyla, Finland; [Wilke, Carolina Franco] Univ Fed Minas Gerais, Exercise Physiol Lab, Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil; [Wilke, Carolina Franco] Univ Technol Sydney, Fac Hlth, Sport & Exercise Discipline Grp, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Barroso, Renato] Univ Estadual Campinas, Sch Phys Educ, Dept Sports Sci, Campinas, SP, Brazil; [Barbosa, Augusto Carvalho] Minas Tenis Clube, Sport Sci Dept, Rua Bahia 2244, BR-30160012 Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil								21							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000473502700013	36	Article; Article		
J	Nevill, Alan M.; Okojie, Daniel I.; Smith, Julian; O'Donoghue, Peter G.; Webb, Tom								Are professional footballers becoming lighter and more ectomorphic? Implications for talent identification and development								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				14	3			329	335		10.1177/1747954119837710			JUN 2019	2019	The identification and development of talent is an essential component of modern professional football. The recognition of key physical characteristics of such footballers who successfully progress through talent development programs is of considerable interest to academics and those working in professional football. Using Football Yearbooks, we obtained the height, body mass and ages of all players from the English top-division over the seasons 1973-4, 1983-4, 1993-4, 2003-4 and 2013-4, calculating body-mass index (BMI) (kg/m(2)) and reciprocal ponderal index (RPI) (cm/kg(0.333)). The mean squad size increased over these decades from n = 22.4 (1973-4) to n = 27.8 (2013-4). Height also increased linearly by approximately 1.2 cm per decade. Body mass increased in the first four decades, but declined in the final season (2013-4). Regression analysis confirmed inverted "u" shape trends in both body mass and BMI, but a "J" shape trend in RPI, indicating that English top-division professional footballers are getting more angular and ectomorphic. We speculate that this recent decline in BMI and rise in RPI is due to improved quality of pitches and increased work-load required by modern-day players. Defenders were also found to be significantly taller, heavier, older and, assuming BMI is positively associated with lean mass, more muscular than other midfielders or attackers. The only characteristic that consistently differentiated successful with less successful players/teams was age (being younger). Therefore, English professional clubs might be advised to attract young, less muscular, more angular/ectomorphic players as part of their talent identification and development programs to improve their chances of success.		[Nevill, Alan M.; Okojie, Daniel I.; Smith, Julian] Univ Wolverhampton, Fac Educ Hlth & Wellbeing, Walsall Campus,Gorway Rd, Walsall WS1 3BD, W Midlands, England; [O'Donoghue, Peter G.] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Cardiff Sch Sport & Hlth Sci, Cardiff, S Glam, Wales; [Webb, Tom] Univ Portsmouth, Dept Sport & Exercise Sci, Portsmouth, Hants, England; [Nevill, Alan M.] Univ Wolverhampton, Fac Educ Hlth & Wellbeing, Walsall Campus,Gorway Rd, Walsall WS1 3BD, W Midlands, England								10							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000473502700006	33	Article; Article		
J	Yu, Changxiao; Shao, Shirui; Baker, Julien S.; Awrejcewicz, Jan; Gu, Yaodong								A comparative biomechanical analysis of the performance level on chasse step in table tennis								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				14	3			372	382		10.1177/1747954119843651			JUN 2019	2019	Initial observations have indicated that each movement pattern or skill set has a fundamental mechanical structure. The purpose of this study was to examine biomechanical characteristics in the chasse step movement patterns between professional athletes (PA) and beginner players (BP). Large data sets were obtained for comparison by capturing kinematic and kinetic information of the dominant foot using the Oxford Foot Model (OFM) during table tennis strokes. Nine male PA and nine BP (all with dominant right feet) participated in a table tennis footwork test. A Vicon motion analysis system and a Novel Pedar insole plantar pressure measurement system were used to record kinematic and kinetic data, respectively. Findings from the study indicated that PA not only showed significantly larger forefoot and rear-foot dorsiflexion, but also demonstrated larger hallux plantarflexion. Also, PA showed significantly larger forefoot inversion and abduction at the forward-end of the step. Peak pressure values were higher under the lateral forefoot, and the medial and lateral rear-foot with faster changes in angular velocity recorded for PA during the chasse step phase. Greater peak pressures were also recorded under the other toes, and in the central and lateral forefoot during the forward swing phase when compared to BP. The results of the present study demonstrated that PA possessed greater foot drive technique. These findings may help coaches and beginners to comprehend the internal mechanisms of the chasse step technique and assist beginners in improving the mechanical efficiency of their performance.		[Yu, Changxiao; Shao, Shirui; Gu, Yaodong] Ningbo Univ, Fac Sports Sci, 818 Fenghua Rd, Ningbo, Zhejiang, Peoples R China; [Baker, Julien S.] Univ West Scotland, Sch Hlth & Life Sci, Inst Clin Exercise & Hlth Sci, Glasgow, Lanark, Scotland; [Awrejcewicz, Jan] Lodz Univ Technol, Dept Automat Biomech & Mechatron, Lodz, Poland; [Gu, Yaodong] Ningbo Univ, Fac Sports Sci, 818 Fenghua Rd, Ningbo, Zhejiang, Peoples R China								15							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000473502700011	35	Article; Article		
J	Schoeman, Riaan; Schall, Robert								Comparison of match-related performance indicators between major professional rugby competitions								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				14	3			344	354		10.1177/1747954119848419			JUN 2019	2019	The study compared performance indicators of four major international rugby union competitions, namely Super Rugby, Aviva Premiership, Guinness Pro 12 and French Top 14. Most performance indicators of Aviva Premiership and Guinness Pro 12 rugby competitions were similar but distinctive from French Top 14 and Super Rugby competitions, which in turn were generally similar. The Aviva Premiership and Guinness Pro 12 had similar numbers of ball carries, tries, offloads, kicks, tackles, line-outs and scrums that were significantly higher than French Top 14 and Super Rugby. Offloads (p = .0015) and tries (p = .0368) were significantly higher for Super Rugby than the Guinness Pro 12, but the Guinness Pro 12 had significantly higher counts for carries (p <= .0001), passes (p = .0010) and kicks (p = .0054). In contrast, counts of tackle breaks (p <= .0001) and line breaks were significantly higher for Super Rugby in comparison to the Aviva Premiership (p = .0057), Guinness Pro 12 (p = .0064) and French Top 14 (p <= .0001). All competitions showed areas of weakness and strength, which could be due to specific game plans followed in the unique pitch and weather conditions during competition.		[Schoeman, Riaan] Univ Free State, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Sport & Exercise Sci, 205 Nelson Mandela Dr, ZA-9300 Bloemfontein, South Africa; [Schall, Robert] Univ Free State, Fac Nat & Agr Sci, Dept Math Stat & Actuarial Sci, Bloemfontein, South Africa; [Schoeman, Riaan] Univ Free State, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Sport & Exercise Sci, 205 Nelson Mandela Dr, ZA-9300 Bloemfontein, South Africa								9							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000473502700008	22	Article; Article		
J	Cripps, Ashley J.; Hopper, Luke S.; Joyce, Christopher								Can coaches predict long-term career attainment outcomes in adolescent athletes?								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				14	3			324	328		10.1177/1747954119848418			JUN 2019	2019	Coaches' subjective perceptions of an athlete's career potential play an important role in the identification and subsequent selection of talented adolescents into or out of development pathways. However, evidence suggests that these perceptions may be biased by variations in athlete maturity. The primary aim of this study was to examine the predictive accuracy of development pathway coaches' perceptions when tasked with identifying adolescent athlete's long-term potential within the Australian Football talent pathway. A secondary aim was to explore if the maturational status of adolescent athletes influenced the accuracy of coaches' long-term career attainment predictions. This observational study initially recruited adolescent athletes (n = 264) and their coaches (n = 9) from teams involved in a state-based Australian Football competition. At the initial testing sessions, estimates for biological maturity were undertaken for all athletes and coaches were asked to rate the perceived long-term career attainment potential of their athletes via a questionnaire. Four years after this initial questionnaire, the research team retrospectively examined each athlete's highest level of competition attained. Coaches correctly predicted the level of career attainment for 63% of athletes, demonstrating a fair level of agreement (kappa = 0.25, 95% CI = -0.16-0.35, p < 0.001) between coach perception and actual career progression outcomes. The coaches' greatest level of predictive accuracy was for late maturing athletes (79% accuracy), while the poorest was for the early maturing athletes (52% accuracy). The findings of this study highlight the complexity associated with correctly identifying athletes with long-term performance potential at early stages of development pathways.		[Cripps, Ashley J.; Joyce, Christopher] Univ Notre Dame, Sch Exercise & Hlth Sci, Fremantle, WA, Australia; [Hopper, Luke S.] Edith Cowan Univ, Western Australian Acad Performing Arts, Mt Lawley, Australia; [Cripps, Ashley J.] 33 Phillimore St, Fremantle, WA 6959, Australia								16							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000473502700005	26	Article; Article		
J	Low, Jonathan L.; Ahmadi, Hamid; Kelly, Liam P.; Willardson, Jeffrey; Boullosa, Daniel; Behm, David G.								Prior Band-Resisted Squat Jumps Improves Running and Neuromuscular Performance in Middle-Distance Runners								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				18	2			301	315					JUN 2019	2019	Post-activation potentiation (PAP) conditioning has been reported to increase performance. Most research has examined PAP effects on strength/power activities, whereas the effects on endurance sports are understudied. The aim of this study was to characterize PAP conditioning stimulus effects on a subsequent 5x1 km running trial. A randomized, within subjects, repeated measures study utilized 12 male, endurance-trained athletes, who performed a full warm-up, conditioning exercise intervention (4x5 repetition maximum band-resisted squat jumps) or a control condition prior to a 5x1 km time trial run. Tests were conducted immediately prior to the intervention, after each kilometer, immediately following the 5x1 km run, and at seven and ten minutes post 5 km run. Measures included the interpolated twitch technique (ITT), evoked contractile properties, maximum voluntary isometric contractions (MVIC) plantar flexor force, drop jump, rating of perceived exertion, and heart rate. The PAP stimulus reduced the time to complete the run (3.6%; p = 0.07, d = 0.51), and decreased the time to complete kilometer one (8%; d = 1.08, p = 0.014). Jump height (p = 0.02; 9.2%) and reactive strength index (p = 0.035; 16%) increased with PAP. F100 (force produced in the first 100ms of the MVIC) and MVIC force with PAP increased at kilometers 3 (p = 0.04, d=0.84), 4 (p = 0.034, d = 0.29), and 7min post-run (p = 0.03, d = 0.60). Voluntary activation (ITT) increased at 7min post-run (p = 0.04, d = 0.59) with PAP, yet decreased at 7min post-run in the control condition (p = 0.03, d = 0.36). A prior band-resisted squat protocol decreased running time and improved neuromuscular properties in endurance athletes running 5x1 km.		[Low, Jonathan L.; Ahmadi, Hamid; Behm, David G.] Mem Univ Newfoundland, Sch Human Kinet & Recreat, St John, NF A1M 3L8, Canada; [Kelly, Liam P.] Mem Univ Newfoundland, Recovery & Performance Lab, Fac Med, LA Miller Ctr, St John, NF, Canada; [Willardson, Jeffrey] Montana State Univ, Dept Hlth & Human Performance, Billings, MT USA; [Boullosa, Daniel] Univ Catolica Brasilia, Phys Educ, Brasilia, DF, Brazil; [Boullosa, Daniel] James Cook Univ, Coll Healthcare Sci, Townsville, Qld, Australia; [Behm, David G.] Mem Univ Newfoundland, Sch Human Kinet & Recreat, St John, NF A1M 3L8, Canada								14							Sport Sciences	WOS:000478791900015	71	Article; Article		
J	Xian Mayo; Iglesias-Soler, Eliseo; Dopico-Calvo, Xurxo								Both Unopposed and Opposed Judo Tasks are Suitable for Analyzing Changes in Lateral Preference								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				18	2			295	300					JUN 2019	2019	Judo coaches aim to develop left-handed techniques in right-handed judoka due to a potential frequency-dependent strategic advantage during competition. Thus, easily completed tasks are needed to track the progression of the lateral preference index (percentage as right-handed actions). Thirty naive volunteers performed two tasks, an unopposed repetition-based dynamic task (yakusoku geiko) and an opposed-bouts task (randori), before and after eight-week training protocols differing in the executing side. Training protocols consisted of a control group (without any instruction regarding the practice side), a bilateral group (practicing with both dominant and nondominant sides), and a nondominant group (practicing exclusively on the nondominant side). ANOVA-type tests were used for analyzing the suitability of the unopposed repetition-based dynamic task for detecting changes in the lateral preference index and for analyzing the concordance between tasks. Additionally, concordance was tested with Spearman's rank correlations and Bland-Altman plots. Lower lateral preference indices (i.e., reductions of executions as right-hander) were observed after training in the nondominant group and in comparison with the control group and bilateral group on the posttest (p < 0.05). ANOVA-test for concordance analysis revealed no differences between tasks (p > 0.05) with significant correlations (p < .05) and low bias during the pretest (rho = 0.563; bias: 4.29, 95% LoA: -36.32-27.74%) and the posttest (rho = 0.718, bias: 0.69, 95% LoA: -39.37-40.77%). In conclusion, an unopposed repetition-based dynamic task detected reductions in lateral preference index after an eight-week nondominant training period. These results agreed with those observed with the opposed-bouts task. This indicates the eligibility of yakusoku geiko for coaching delivery due to general suitability of the unopposed repetition-based dynamic task to track the maintenance or progression of left-handedness in judo trainees.		[Xian Mayo] King Juan Carlos Univ, Observ Hlth & Act Living Spain Act Fdn, Ctr Sport Studies, Madrid, Spain; [Xian Mayo; Iglesias-Soler, Eliseo; Dopico-Calvo, Xurxo] Univ A Coruna, Performance & Hlth Grp, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Fac Sports Sci & Phys Educ, La Coruna, Spain; [Xian Mayo] King Juan Carlos Univ, Ctr Sport Studies, Raul Gonzalez Blanco Stadium, Madrid 28942, Spain								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:000478791900014	21	Article; Article		
J	Matta, Thiago T.; Pinto, Raphael O.; Leitao, Bruno F. M.; Oliveira, Liliam F.								Non-Uniformity of Elbow Flexors Damage Induced by an Eccentric Protocol in Untrained Men								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				18	2			223	228					JUN 2019	2019	Muscle structure disorganization is a consequence of intense eccentric contractions, with symptoms that characterize exercise-induced muscle damage (EIMD). To date, few studies have described EIMD parameters at different muscle sites. The aim of the present study was to analyse indirect markers of EIMD at two elbow flexors sites over three days. Eleven healthy untrained men were submitted to a session of three sets of 10 eccentric elbow flexion repetitions on an isokinetic dynamometer. The isometric peak torque (PT), muscle soreness, elbow flexors oedema, (normalized muscle thickness [MT]) and echo-intensity (EI) were measured. There was a significant decrease in PT immediately after (Post) and 10 min, 24 h, 48 h and 72 h after intervention compared to that at baseline (p < 0.05). MT% increased after 72 h compared with that immediately, 10 min and 24 h after intervention (p < 0.05). No statistical changes were observed in muscle soreness and oedema between the two muscle sites. With respect to EI%, significant differences were observed for the 24 h, 48 h and 72 h measures compared with those of the Post, 10 min and 24 h measures for both muscle sites; at the distal site, EI% was significantly higher than at the proximal site for measures after 24 h (p < 0.05). The presence of differences in EI% 24 h after eccentric training on distal sites of elbow flexors indicates non-uniform EIMD in this region.		[Matta, Thiago T.; Pinto, Raphael O.; Leitao, Bruno F. M.; Oliveira, Liliam F.] Univ Fed Rio de Janeiro, Lab Biomecan, Escola Educ Fis & Desportos, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil; [Matta, Thiago T.; Oliveira, Liliam F.] Univ Fed Rio de Janeiro, Programa Engn Biomed, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil; [Matta, Thiago T.] Univ Fed Rio de Janeiro, Lab Biomecan, Escola Educ Fis & Desportos, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil; [Matta, Thiago T.] Univ Fed Rio de Janeiro, Programa Engn Biomed, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil								8							Sport Sciences	WOS:000478791900005	26	Article; Article		
J	Sanudo, Borj A.; Gonzalez-Navarrete, Angeles; Alvarez-Barbosa, Francisco; de Hoyo, Moises; del Pozo, Jesfis; Rogers, Michael E.								Effect of Flywheel Resistance Training on Balance Performance in Older Adults. A Randomized Controlled Trial								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				18	2			344	350					JUN 2019	2019	This study aimed to assess the effects of flywheel resistance exercise training on postural stability and mobility in older adults and to investigate whether changes in power are related to improvements in balance. Thirty-six participants were randomly allocated to either a flywheel resistance exercise training group (ETG; n = 18) who underwent 6-weeks of training (2 to 3 days per week) or a control group (CON; n = 18). The average power and Mean Propulsive Velocity (MPV) were computed. Timed up-and-go test (TUG) and postural balance (anterior-posterior (AP) and medial-lateral (ML) center of pressure (COP) excursions) in different tasks were also assessed. Within-group analyses showed a significantly better performance in mobility (TUG, p < 0.01) and COPAP with open eyes (p < 0.05) for ETG. Between-groups analyses showed significant improvements in TUG (-0.68 [-1.25 to -0.98]) and in COPAP (-2.90 [-4.82 to -0.99]) in ETG compared with CON. Mean power also increased in ETG and the changes were related to those observed in stability (COP; r = -0.378, p < 0.05). In conclusion flywheel resistance exercise training improved balance and mobility in older adults as well as muscle power.		[Sanudo, Borj A.; Gonzalez-Navarrete, Angeles; de Hoyo, Moises; del Pozo, Jesfis] Univ Seville, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Seville, Spain; [Alvarez-Barbosa, Francisco] Ctr Estudios Univ Cardenal Spinola CEU, Seville, Spain; [Rogers, Michael E.] Wichita State Univ, Dept Human Performance Studies, Wichita, KS USA; [Sanudo, Borj A.] Univ Seville, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Seville, Spain								26							Sport Sciences	WOS:000478791900019	33	Article; Article		
J	Chambers, April J.; Haney, Justin M.; Huppert, Theodore; Redfern, Mark S.								The Effect of Prolonged Walking With Intermittent Standing on Erector Spinae and Soleus Muscle Oxygenation and Discomfort								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				18	2			337	343					JUN 2019	2019	Prolonged periods of walking have been associated with musculoskeletal discomfort and injuries. Previous research has shown that muscle fatigue is related to decreases in muscle oxygenation during short term walking. The objective of the proposed research is to determine the impact of prolonged walking with intermittent standing on musculoskeletal discomfort and muscle oxygenation measures in young adults. Nine young adults walked for a period of 2 hours. Ratings of perceived discomfort were recorded using a questionnaire. Muscle oxygenation and hemoglobin levels were collected from the lower back erector spinae and soleus muscles using near infrared spectroscopy (NIRS). Subjective discomfort significantly increased throughout the 2 hours. Prolonged walking generally induced increased oxygenation of the erector spinae and soleus across walking periods, within walking periods and across standing periods. These increases were more pronounced at the beginning of the walking session and continued through the second or third periods. Erector spinae and soleus total hemoglobin increased within walking period one and two. Only the soleus total hemoglobin significantly increased after the first walking and standing periods and during all the transitions from walking to standing. Increased oxygenation and total hemoglobin during prolonged walking with intermittent standing are likely a result of the repeated dynamic contractions and exercise-induced blood volume expansion. Increased discomfort was found; however, this was not explained by detrimental changes in oxygenation or total hemoglobin.		[Chambers, April J.; Huppert, Theodore; Redfern, Mark S.] Univ Pittsburgh, Dept Bioengn, Pittsburgh, PA 15260 USA; [Haney, Justin M.] Univ Michigan, Dept Ind & Operat Engn, Ann Arbor, MI 48109 USA; [Huppert, Theodore] Univ Pittsburgh, Dept Radiol, Pittsburgh, PA 15260 USA; [Chambers, April J.] Univ Pittsburgh, Dept Bioengn, Pittsburgh, PA 15260 USA								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:000478791900018	31	Article; Article		
J	Huhtiniemi, Mikko; Saakslahti, Arja; Watt, Anthony; Jaakkola, Timo								Associations among Basic Psychological Needs, Motivation and Enjoyment within Finnish Physical Education Students								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				18	2			239	247					JUN 2019	2019	The purpose of this study was to analyse the associations between basic psychological needs, motivational regulations and enjoyment within Finnish physical education (PE) students. The participants of the study were 260 Grade 5 students (M-age=11.86, SD=0.28) and 242 Grade 8 students (M-age=14.93, SD=0.37) who completed a questionnaire prior to their regular PE classes. This cross-sectional study incorporated a multigroup structural equation modelling (SEM, path model) separately for Grade 5 and 8 students, using gender as a grouping value. Results indicated that among Grade 5 students autonomy was directly associated with enjoyment. In addition, there was an indirect path from autonomy to enjoyment via intrinsic regulation in the boys group, and an indirect path from relatedness to enjoyment via intrinsic regulation in the girls group. Among Grade 8 students, need for competence was directly associated with enjoyment for the boys. Results also revealed negative associations from autonomy to enjoyment via amotivation for the girls group, and via external regulation for the boys group. For both Grades 5 and 8 SEM revealed additional, gender specific associations. The results of this study highlight the importance of students' need satisfaction and autonomous motivation as factors that could facilitate enjoyable experiences in PE classes.		[Huhtiniemi, Mikko; Saakslahti, Arja; Jaakkola, Timo] Univ Jyvaskyla, Fac Sport & Hlth Sci, Jyvaskyla, Finland; [Watt, Anthony] Victoria Univ, Coll Arts & Educ, Melbourne, Vic 8001, Australia; [Huhtiniemi, Mikko] Univ Jyvaskyla, Fac Sport & Hlth Sci, Jyvaskyla, Finland								93							Sport Sciences	WOS:000478791900007	48	Article; Article		
J	Jeong, Hee Seong; O'Sullivan, David Michael; Lee, Sung-Cheol; Lee, Sae Yong								Safety Evaluation of Protective Equipment for the Forearm, Shin, Hand and Foot in Taekwondo								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				18	2			376	383					JUN 2019	2019	The objective of the study was to evaluate and compare different brands of forearm, shin, hand and foot protective equipment used in Taekwondo. The most popular brands of large forearm, shin, hand and foot protectors (D (R), A (R), K (R)), approved by the World Taekwondo and Korean Taekwondo Association, were examined. A drop test was used to test the protective equipment using impact levels of 3J, 9J, 12J and 15J for the forearm and shin guards, and 3J and 9J for the hand and foot protectors. The protective equipment was hit ten times from each of the designated drop heights. The drop test is described in the European standards manual of protective equipment for martial arts (SRPS EN 13277-2). The maximum force (MF) and impulse were lowest for brand K (R) (2610.3 +/- 1474.1 N), and brand A (R) (9.6 +/- 3.1 Ns), respectively, for the forearm guards; for brand A (R) (2053.4 +/- 1267.1 N) and brand K (R) (9.8 +/- 3.5 Ns), respectively, for the shin guards; for brand K (R) (4486.5 +/- 1718.4 N), and brand A (R) (6.3 +/- 1.1 Ns), respectively for the hand protectors; and for brand A (R) (3733.7 +/- 2465.3 N), and brand D (R) (6.8 +/- 0.6 Ns), respectively, for the foot protectors. For the forearm guard brand and impact level, there was a significant interaction effect for the MF (F=42.44, eta(2)=.677, p < 0.001) and impulse (F = 33.97, eta(2) = 0.626, p < 0.001). Based on the MF, brand K (R) performed the best for the forearm guards and hand protectors, and brand A (R), for the shin guards and foot protectors. The best results for the impulse were for brand A (R) (forearm guards and hand protectors), brand K (R) (shin guards) and brand D (R) (foot protectors).		[Jeong, Hee Seong; Lee, Sung-Cheol; Lee, Sae Yong] Yonsei Univ, Yonsei Inst Sports Sci & Exercise Med, Seoul, South Korea; [Jeong, Hee Seong; Lee, Sung-Cheol; Lee, Sae Yong] Yonsei Univ, Dept Phys Educ, 310 Sports Sci Complex,50 Yonsei Ro, Seoul, South Korea; [O'Sullivan, David Michael] Pusan Natl Univ, Dept Sports Sci, Busan, South Korea; [Lee, Sae Yong] Yonsei Univ, Inst Convergence Sci, Seoul, South Korea; [Lee, Sae Yong] Yonsei Univ, Yonsei Inst Sports Sci & Exercise Med, Seoul, South Korea; [Lee, Sae Yong] Yonsei Univ, Dept Phys Educ, 310 Sports Sci Complex,50 Yonsei Ro, Seoul, South Korea; [Lee, Sae Yong] Yonsei Univ, Inst Convergence Sci, Seoul, South Korea								15							Sport Sciences	WOS:000478791900023	34	Article; Article		
J	Opplert, Jules; Babault, Nicolas								Acute Effects of Dynamic Stretching on Mechanical Properties Result From both Muscle-Tendon Stretching and Muscle Warm-Up								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				18	2			351	358					JUN 2019	2019	We investigated the acute effects of dynamic stretching on mechanical properties of plantar flexor muscles and tested the hypothesis that it would result from an interaction between muscle-tendon stretching and muscle warm-up. To test the stretching effect, dynamic stretching (DS) was compared to static stretching (SS). To test the warm-up effect, DS was compared to submaximal isometric muscle activity (SIMA) with similar contraction intensity. A control condition served as reference. These four conditioning activities were time matched (2x20s) and tested on separate days on 13 volunteers. Electrical neurostimulation was applied to investigate muscle mechanical properties (peak doublet torque (PDT) and rate of torque development (RTD)), before assessing maximal voluntary isometric torque (MVIT). Passive torque and muscle fascicles length, were measured respectively with a dynamometer and ultrasonography during a maximal passive dorsiflexion. These parameters were recorded before and after each conditioning activities. MVIT, PDT, RTD and fascicles length remained unaffected, while passive torque was significantly reduced (-11.6 +/- 14.8%) after DS. SS significantly decreased MVIT (-7.7 +/- 3.8%) and enhanced fascicles length (45.3 +/- 49.2%), whereas SIMA increased PDT (5.8 +/- 5.2%) and RTD (7.4 +/- 8.3%) without affecting passive torque or fascicles length. These results may suggest that, during dynamic stretching, muscle-tendon stretching effects would partly counteract muscle warm-up effects.		[Opplert, Jules; Babault, Nicolas] Univ Burgundy Franche Comte, INSERM, Fac Sport Sci, UMR1093 CAPS, BP 27877, F-21078 Dijon, France; [Opplert, Jules] Univ Burgundy Franche Comte, INSERM, Fac Sport Sci, UMR1093 CAPS, BP 27877, F-21078 Dijon, France								31							Sport Sciences	WOS:000478791900020	48	Article; Article		
J	Wilk, Michal; Golas, Artur; Krzysztofik, Michal; Nawrocka, Monika; Zajac, Adam								The Effects of Eccentric Cadence on Power and Velocity of the Bar during the Concentric Phase of the Bench Press Movement								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				18	2			191	197					JUN 2019	2019	Training at a specific movement tempo is a relatively new concept in resistance training. It is based on manipulation of the duration of particular phases of a movement. General studies have demonstrated that faster movement tempo in resistance training leads to an increase in muscle power, whereas lower movement speed is beneficial in the development of muscle strength and hypertrophy. However, the studies in this area are inconclusive and do not relate precisely to various tempos and movement speeds. The aim of the study was to determine the effect of duration of the eccentric cadence ECCREG (2/0/X/0) and ECCSLO (6/0/X/0) on muscular power generated in the concentric phase of the movement expressed in maximal P-MAX, V-MAX and average values P-AVE, V-AVE. For the ECCSLO (6/0/X/0) cadence, a significantly lower value of P (401.95 +/- 65.42 W) was observed compared to the ECCREG 2/0/X/0 tempo (467.65 +/- 79.18 W), at p = 0.007. The same was true for power evaluated in maximal values (P-MAX), as significantly higher values were recorded for the regular ECCREG (2/0/X/0) (671.55 +/- 115.79 W) compared to the slow tempo ECCSLO (6/0/X/0) (565,70 +/- 117,37 W), at the level of significance of p = 0.007. The velocity evaluated for ECCREG (2/0/X/0) tempo expressed in average values (V-AVE) 0.60 +/- 0.09 m/s was significantly higher compared to the ECCSLO (6/0/X/0) tempo (0.52 +/- 0.08 m/s), with p=0.004. When maximal velocity (V-MAX), was considered higher values for ECCREG (2/0/X/0) tempo was registered (0.79 +/- 0.10 m/s) compared to the ECCSLO (6/0/X/0) tempo (0.69 +/- 0.13 m/s), at significance of p = 0.001. The main finding of the study indicates that the duration of the eccentric phase of the movement has a significant impact on muscular power and velocity during the concentric phase of the movement.		[Wilk, Michal; Golas, Artur; Krzysztofik, Michal; Nawrocka, Monika; Zajac, Adam] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Dept Sports Training, Katowice, Poland; [Wilk, Michal] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Dept Sports Training, Katowice, Poland								37							Sport Sciences	WOS:000478791900001	46	Article; Article		
J	Zhou, Wenbin; Zeng, Guigang; Lyu, Chunming; Kou, Fang; Zhang, Shen; Wei, Hai								The Effect of Exhaustive Exercise on Plasma Metabolic Profiles of Male and Female Rats								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				18	2			253	263					JUN 2019	2019	The objective of the study was to evaluate the alteration in biochemical composition and gender difference within exhaustive exercise in male and female rats using a metabolomics strategy. Sixty male and female rats were randomly assigned to control, exhaustive exercise and one-week recovery groups, respectively. The metabolic profiles of plasma were investigated by gas chromatograph-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) and data further underwent orthogonal partial least-squares (OPLS) analysis. The current study found that gender was a significant determinant of the effects of exhaustive exercise on the cortisol, blood urea nitrogen, creatine kinase, and the ratio of reduced glutathione to oxidized glutathione, whereas, no significant interaction effects between gender and exhaustive exercise were found on the levels of testosterone, malonaldehyde, reduced glutathione, oxidized glutathione and lactic dehydrogenase. In male rats, the altered metabolites within exhaustive exercise included increased tricarboxylic acid cycle intermediates (citric acid, fumaric acid, butanedioic acid), branch-chain amino acids (valine, leucine), fatty acids and metabolite (oleic acid, linoleic acid, 3-hydroxybutyric acid), phosphate and decreased glucose, lactic acid, serine, and glutamic acid. In female rats, the levels of fatty acids and metabolite (linoleic acid, oleic acid, arachidonic acid, 3-hydroxybutyric acid), amino acids (valine, leucine, glutamic acid, 5-oxo-proline, methionine, ornithine), other metabolites urea, myo-inositol and phosphate were increased. The results indicated that exhaustive exercise increased the rates of energy metabolism, glucose metabolism, amino acid catabolism and fatty acid metabolism in male rats, whereas, female rats showed an increased propensity to oxidize lipid and conserve carbohydrate and protein metabolism against physical stress. Disordered urea cycle and inositol metabolism also occurred in female rats with exhaustive exercise. Exhaustive exercise affected the balance of hormone adjustment and caused oxidative stress, subsequent cell membrane damage both in male and female rats. A significant gender-related difference in the metabolic profiles was also found between male and female rats within exhaustive exercise.		[Zhou, Wenbin; Kou, Fang; Wei, Hai] Shanghai Univ Tradit Chinese Med, Inst Interdisciplinary Integrat Biomed Res, Shanghai 201203, Peoples R China; [Zeng, Guigang; Zhang, Shen] Second Mil Med Univ, Changzheng Hosp, Dept Rehabil, Shanghai 200003, Peoples R China; [Lyu, Chunming] Shanghai Zhulian Intelligent Technol CO LTD, Shanghai 201323, Peoples R China; [Wei, Hai] Shanghai Univ Tradit Chinese Med, Inst Interdisciplinary Integrat Biomed Res, Shanghai 201203, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Shen] Second Mil Med Univ, Changzheng Hosp, Dept Rehabil, Shanghai 200003, Peoples R China								22							Sport Sciences	WOS:000478791900009	54	Article; Article		
J	Goff, Brian; Locke, Stephen L.								Revisiting Romer: Digging Deeper Into Influences on NFL Managerial Decisions								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				20	5			671	689		10.1177/1527002518798686			JUN 2019	2019	Using Romer's framework as the starting point, we examine the decisions by National Football League (NFL) coaches to "go for it" on fourth down with an expanded sample drawn from 12 years (2002-2013) of NFL play-by-play data. Our expanded results generally confirm Romer's finding of divergence from expected point maximization or win maximization. However, unlike Romer, by estimating forecast errors for points and wins and related risk premia along with logistic regression estimates of the influences on fourth down decisions, we find strong indications that risk aversion rather than incorrect information processing likely accounts for a substantial part of the divergence.		[Goff, Brian; Locke, Stephen L.] Western Kentucky Univ, Dept Econ, Bowling Green, KY 42101 USA; [Goff, Brian] Western Kentucky Univ, Dept Econ, Bowling Green, KY 42101 USA								4							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000466425700003	15	Article; Article		
J	Royuela, Vicente; Gasquez, Roberto								On the Influence of Foreign Players on the Success of Football Clubs								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				20	5			718	741		10.1177/1527002518807960			JUN 2019	2019	This article analyzes whether having more foreign players influences the performance of football clubs. We do so by comparing a cross section of close to 1,000 football clubs all over the world. We find that, on average, those clubs in leagues with more foreign players display better results in the world rankings. Nevertheless, within each league, where all clubs have the same regulations, having more foreign players has no effect. In the end, when all clubs have the same possibilities for importing better players from abroad, what matters is the financial power to choose the better ones.		[Royuela, Vicente] Univ Barcelona, AQR IREA Res Grp, Barcelona, Spain; [Gasquez, Roberto] Univ Barcelona, Dept Econ Hist Inst & Polit & World Econ, Barcelona, Spain; [Royuela, Vicente] Univ Barcelona, Dept Econometr & Stat, Avda Diagonal 690, Barcelona 08034, Spain								22							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000466425700005	41	Article; Article		
J	Eckard, E. Woodrow								Does the NCAA's Collegiate Model Promote Competitive Balance? Power-5 Conference Football Versus the NFL								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				20	5			654	670		10.1177/1527002518798687			JUN 2019	2019	The disparity between athlete compensation and major sports revenues has produced criticisms of The National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA)'s Collegiate Model of athletic competition. In defense, the NCAA argues that it promotes competitive balance. One implication is that moving toward a professional model would reduce balance. The present article tests this hypothesis by comparing competitive balance in Power-5 conference football to that for the professional National Football League (NFL) using a variety of balance metrics. The results provide no support for the NCAA's implicit hypothesis of less balance in the NFL, undermining competitive balance as a legitimate defense of the NCAA's Collegiate Model.		[Eckard, E. Woodrow] Univ Colorado, Business Sch, Econ, Denver, CO 80202 USA; [Eckard, E. Woodrow] Univ Colorado, Business Sch, 1475 Lawrence St, Denver, CO 80202 USA								2							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000466425700002	20	Article; Article		
J	Cakir-Atabek, Hayriye; Dokumaci, Bircan; Aygun, Cihan								Strength Loss After Eccentric Exercise Is Related to Oxidative Stress but Not Muscle Damage Biomarkers								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				90	3			385	394		10.1080/02701367.2019.1603990			JUL 3 2019	2019	Purpose: The purpose of this study was to investigate (a) time-dependent changes in muscle damage (MD) biomarkers, oxidative stress (OS) indices, and maximum strength performance; (b) the relationship between changes in maximum strength performance and changes in MD and OS indices; and (c) whether eccentric exercise-induced MD is related to OS. Method: Twenty-nine male volunteers (age: 22.13 +/- 3.1 years) participated in the study. Participants performed 60 maximal eccentric actions of the elbow flexors at a constant velocity of 60 degrees center dot s(-1). Maximum isokinetic strength (MIS), visual analog scale soreness scores, serum creatine kinase (CK) activity, total antioxidant status, total oxidant status (TOS), protein carbonyl (PCO), and 8-hydroxydeoxyguanosine level were analyzed. Blood samples were obtained before, immediately after, and 24 h, 48 h, and 96 h after the eccentric exercise. Change in total work (%Delta TWk), peak torque (%Delta PT), and OS index were calculated. Results: CK, PCO, and TOS significantly increased over time (p < .05). However, no significant main effect was observed for MIS or any other investigated biomarkers (p > .05). MIS was not related to MD or OS indices. However, %Delta TWk demonstrated a moderate inverse correlation with OS indices. No significant relationship was observed between %Delta PT and any of the selected biomarkers. Conclusions: Our findings confirm the hypothesis that acute eccentric exercise increases MD biomarkers and OS indices. However, indices of OS damage were significantly related, particularly, to the strength loss of flexors. This finding suggests that the decline in strength performance is not the primary determinant of the magnitude of MD following voluntary eccentric contraction.		[Cakir-Atabek, Hayriye; Dokumaci, Bircan; Aygun, Cihan] Eskisehir Tech Univ, TR-26555 Eskisehir, Turkey; [Dokumaci, Bircan; Aygun, Cihan] Anadolu Univ, Eskisehir, Turkey; [Cakir-Atabek, Hayriye] Eskisehir Tech Univ, Fac Sports Sci, Dept Coach Training Sports Fac, TR-26555 Eskisehir, Turkey								12							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000470360200001	40	Article; Article		
J	Pena Garcia-Orea, Guillermo; Belando-Pedreno, Noelia; Andres Merino-Barrero, Juan; Ramon Heredia-Elvar, Juan								Validation of an opto-electronic instrument for the measurement of execution velocity in squat exercise								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2019.1597156				2019	The purpose of this study was to analyse the reliability and validity of an opto-electronic sensor system (Velowin) for assessment of the bar-velocity in the deep squat exercise. Mean velocity, mean propulsive velocity and peak velocity generated in the deep squat exercise performed in the Smith machine bar were analysed compared to a linear velocity transducer considered as the gold standard. The study was conducted with a sample of 26 men with experience in resistance training. Six measurements were analysed for squat exercise in concentric phase using a progressive loading increase. Three consecutive repetitions were performed per load with a 3-4 min recovery between loads. Analysis of variance confirmed that there were no significant differences (p > 0.05) for the velocity variables between Velowin and T-Force for each of the loads. The reliability analysis showed high values of the intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC = 0.94-0.99), an 'almost perfect' Lin's concordance coefficient (CCC = 0.99) and a low coefficient of variation (CV <3.4%) for each of the loads and velocities. These results confirm the reliability and validity of the Velowin device for measuring the execution velocity in deep squat exercise.		[Pena Garcia-Orea, Guillermo; Ramon Heredia-Elvar, Juan] Int Inst Phys Exercise Sci & Hlth, Sports Sci Res Dept, Alicante, Spain; [Belando-Pedreno, Noelia] European Univ Madrid, Fac Biomed & Hlth Sci, Madrid, Spain; [Andres Merino-Barrero, Juan] Univ Murcia, Phys Act & Sports, Murcia, Spain; [Pena Garcia-Orea, Guillermo] Int Inst Phys Exercise Sci & Hlth, Sports Sci Res Dept, Alicante, Spain								13							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000469687800001	31	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Lampe, Jasmin; Groneberg, David Alexander; Borgetto, Bernhard; Ohlendorf, Daniela; Wanke, Eileen M.								Assessment of musculoskeletal pain in dance focusing on dance-style related differences								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				47	4			433	440		10.1080/00913847.2019.1613120			OCT 2 2019	2019	Objectives: Pain in dance may be related to the high specific load on the musculoskeletal system caused by dance techniques. Up to the present, data on pain-relevant aspects considering the dance style as a contributing factor to pain occurrence in dance are still pending. The aim of this study was to analyze and compare dance-style specific pain with regard to prevalence, localization, subjective pain perception, duration, frequency, temporary dynamics and pain evaluation in dancers of the two popular dance styles (ballet and contemporary dance). Methods: The quantitative cross-sectional observation study with descriptive focus was carried out in n = 64 classical (ballet) dancers (B) and n = 81 jazz/modern/contemporary dancers (JMC). All participants were non-professional dancers. The data were collected by using an online questionnaire consisting of existing pain assessments adapted for dance. Results: Above all, differences were found in the comparison of the dancers' body regions. While the lower extremity was particularly affected in ballet dancers (B) (right calf, p = 0.04; forefoot and toes, p < 0.01), dancers of the JMC were more frequently affected by pain in the head and trunk (neck, p < 0.01; upper back, p < 0.01) and the upper extremity (shoulders, p < 0.01; wrists, p < 0.01; left elbow, p = 0.03). More than 65% of the dancers (B and JMC) reported pain in the context of dancing within the recent 3 and 12 months. Further parallels in the two dance styles could be observed in the subjective sensation of pain, the temporal course and the evaluation of pain. Conclusion: In the overall view of pain aspects, the parallels between the investigated dance styles prevail, which dominate in the aspects of pain prevalence, subjective perception, temporal progression, and pain evaluation. This allows the careful conclusion that the dance style performed is of limited importance for the pain aspects mentioned. The differences must be taken into account in future prevention measures.		[Lampe, Jasmin; Groneberg, David Alexander; Ohlendorf, Daniela; Wanke, Eileen M.] Goethe Univ Frankfurt Main, Inst Occupat Social & Environm Med, Theodor Stern Kai 7, D-60590 Frankfurt, Germany; [Borgetto, Bernhard] Univ Appl Sci & Hlth, Fac Social Work & Hlth, Hildesheim, Germany; [Wanke, Eileen M.] Goethe Univ Frankfurt Main, Inst Occupat Social & Environm Med, Theodor Stern Kai 7, D-60590 Frankfurt, Germany								10							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000468697500001	34	Article; Article		
J	Haegele, Justin A.; Zhu, Xihe; Holland, Katherine								Exploring the Intersection Between Disability and Overweightness in Physical Education Among Females With Visual Impairments								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				90	3			344	354		10.1080/02701367.2019.1600652			JUL 3 2019	2019	Purpose: The purpose of this study was to adopt an explicitly intersectional approach to examine the experiences of women identifying as having a visual impairment and as being overweight or obese in integrated physical education (PE). Method: An interpretative phenomenological analysis (IPA) research approach was used, and six women (ages 25-34) with visual impairments who identified as being overweight or obese acted as participants. The sources of data included semistructured audiotaped telephone interviews and reflective interview notes. Data were analyzed thematically using a three-step analytic process informed by IPA. Results: Based on the data analysis, three inter-related themes emerged. The first theme, restricted/reluctant participation, described participants' experiences with PE activity restrictions and the influence of visual impairment and overweight or obesity on these restrictions. The second theme, teacher discrimination, described participants' recollection of discriminatory practices by physical educators that were influenced by perceptions of inability. Finally, the third theme, isolation, teasing and surveillance issues, described challenging social instances and how those instances were influenced by body size and disability status. Conclusions: Using an IPA approach, three themes emerged that exposed central experiences that were informed by the participants' identities as individuals with visual impairments and being overweight or obese. Through the lens of intersectionality, these themes contribute to our understanding of how these identities interacted to contribute to disadvantaging experiences in PE.		[Haegele, Justin A.; Zhu, Xihe; Holland, Katherine] Old Dominion Univ, 2009 Student Recreat Ctr, Norfolk, VA 23529 USA; [Haegele, Justin A.] Old Dominion Univ, 2009 Student Recreat Ctr, Norfolk, VA 23529 USA								21							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000471427300001	37	Article; Article		
J	Flores, Nicolas; Rao, Guillaume; Berton, Eric; Delattre, Nicolas								The stiff plate location into the shoe influences the running biomechanics								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2019.1607541				2019	The changes in running biomechanics induced by an increased longitudinal bending stiffness (stiff plates added into the shoes) have been well investigated, but little is known concerning the effects of the stiff plate location into the shoe on running biomechanics. Fourteen male recreational runners ran at two participant-specific running speeds (3.28 +/- 0.28 m/s and 4.01 +/- 0.27 m/s) with two shoe conditions where a stiff plate was added either in high (under the insole) or low location (between the midsole and outsole). Ground reaction forces, lower limb joint angles, net joint torques and work, as well as alignment between the resultant ground reaction force and the leg were analysed. Among the running speeds performed by the runners, the high location significantly decreased propulsive ground reaction forces, increased metatarsophalangeal joint dorsiflexion and ankle plantarflexion, induced an increased alignment between the resultant ground reaction force and the runner's leg, thus decreasing all the lower limb joint torques and the positive work at the knee joint compared to the low location. The results suggested that the high stiff plate location into the shoe should be considered for running performance perspectives, but care should be taken to not alter the perceived comfort and/or increase injury risks.		[Flores, Nicolas; Delattre, Nicolas] Decathlon SportsLab, Movement Sci Dept, Villeneuve dAscq, France; [Rao, Guillaume; Berton, Eric] Aix Marseille Univ, Inst Movement Sci, Sport Sci Dept, Natl Ctr Sci Res, Marseille, France; [Flores, Nicolas] Decathlon SportsLab, Movement Sci Dept, Villeneuve dAscq, France								36							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000468693400001	48	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Soh, Johnson; Sanders, Ross								The clues are in the flow: how swim propulsion should be interpreted								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2019.1602162				2019	The aim of this study was to provide a fundamental understanding of how the hands create swim propulsion by applying Newton's Laws to observations of the behaviour of water in simple demonstrations. Using a video recorder, we captured a series of straight and curved pulls made near and under the pool surface. The pulls were performed using a plastic disc or a human hand/arm. Videos from the demonstrations showed that masses of water accelerate from the dorsal side of the hand/plastic disc, and in a straight pull, generates a reaction force moving the body forward, consistent with Newton's Laws. Demonstrations conducted on the curvilinear pull indicated that changes in the pull direction result in an interaction with the water to accelerate water backwards to generate a force thrusting the body forward.		[Sanders, Ross] Univ Sydney, Exercise & Sport Sci, Fac Hlth Sci, Cumberland Campus, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Sanders, Ross] Univ Sydney, Exercise & Sport Sci, Fac Hlth Sci, Cumberland Campus, Sydney, NSW, Australia								6							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000470512200001	24	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Ozawa, Yu; Uchiyama, Shuichi; Ogawara, Keita; Kanosue, Kazuyuki; Yamada, Hiroshi								Biomechanical analysis of volleyball overhead pass								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2019.1609072				2019	In volleyball, the overhead pass is an important skill for passing a ball and making a set to attackers. In the present study, we analysed the overhead pass motion and involved muscle activity with special attention to the stretch-shortening cycle (SSC). Electromyogram was recorded from the wrist and elbow joint flexors and extensors. The movement period when the ball touched the hand was divided into the pull and push phases with the moment when the ball was at the lowest position. In the pull phase, although the wrists were extended, the activity of wrist flexor muscle was higher than the extensor muscle in both skilled and unskilled groups. And the activity in the wrist flexor muscle in the pull phase was higher in the skilled participants than that of the unskilled participants. Thus, the skilled participants pushed the ball by utilising the SSC of the wrist, while the unskilled participants did this in a less degree. In addition, the kinetic chain was observed from elbow to wrist in the skilled participants. We conclude that it is important for an overhead pass that the wrist flexor muscles accumulate elastic energy during the pull phase which is then released in the push phase.		[Ozawa, Yu; Uchiyama, Shuichi; Ogawara, Keita; Yamada, Hiroshi] Tokai Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Hiratsuka, Kanagawa, Japan; [Ozawa, Yu] Waseda Univ, Grad Sch Sport Sci, Tokorozawa, Saitama, Japan; [Kanosue, Kazuyuki] Waseda Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Tokorozawa, Saitama, Japan; [Ozawa, Yu] Tokai Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Hiratsuka, Kanagawa, Japan; [Ozawa, Yu] Waseda Univ, Grad Sch Sport Sci, Tokorozawa, Saitama, Japan								12							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000471455000001	35	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Perez-Ferreiros, Alexandra; Kalen, Anton; Gomez, Miguel-Angel; Rey, Ezequiel								Reliability of Teams' Game-Related Statistics in Basketball: Number of Games Required and Minimal Detectable Change								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				90	3			297	306		10.1080/02701367.2019.1597243			JUL 3 2019	2019	In basketball, game-related statistics are the most common measure of performance. However, the literature assessing their reliability is scarce. Purpose: Analyze the number of games required to obtain a good relative and absolute reliability of teams' game-related statistics. Method: A total of 884 games from the 2015-2016 to 2017-2018 seasons of the Spanish men's professional league were analyzed using all games and clustered by scoring difference. Intra-class correlation coefficient (ICC) was calculated for each variable. The number of games required to detect a change and to achieve good relative reliability was calculated using minimal detectable change and Spearman-Brown prophecy formula respectively. Results: Using all games, the results showed that the minimal number of games required in each group was 30 to detect a medium change (d > .5), 187 for a small change (d > .2), and 100 for good relative reliability (ICC >= .75). Using balanced and unbalanced games, the minimal number of games required in each group was respectively 31 and 30 to detect a medium change (d > .5), 190 and 188 for a small change (d > .2), and 191 and 121 for good relative reliability (ICC >= .75). Conclusions: The sample needs to consist of at least 30 games in each group to detect a medium size change, and at least 190 games to detect a small size change. To be able to rank teams with good reliability, at least 100 games are required when including both balanced and unbalanced games.		[Perez-Ferreiros, Alexandra; Kalen, Anton; Rey, Ezequiel] Univ Vigo, Pontevedra, Spain; [Gomez, Miguel-Angel] Univ Politecn Madrid, Madrid, Spain; [Kalen, Anton] Univ Vigo, Fac Educ & Sport Sci, Campus A Xunqueira S-N, Pontevedra 36005, Spain								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000471406700001	35	Article; Article		
J	Oh, Junghwan; Graber, Kim C.								Physical Education Teacher Education Leaders' Perceptions on a National Curriculum in Physical Education								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				90	3			362	376		10.1080/02701367.2019.1603988			JUL 3 2019	2019	Purpose: Given criticism of P-12 physical education and wide variability in instructional quality and subject matter outcomes in the United States (US), a national curriculum has been debated by some scholars as a mechanism for improving the status of the subject matter. Grounded in the systemic reform (SR) model, the purpose of this study was to explore physical education teacher education (PETE) leaders' perceptions regarding the implementation of a national curriculum. Method: In total, 28 individuals participated in in-depth interviews that were inductively/deductively coded and triangulated. Results: Themes indicated that nationalizing the curriculum has the potential to offer explicit educational goals, substantial pedagogical guidelines, and valid assessments. Despite recognizing the potential benefits of national curriculum, however, the majority of participants were opposed because of the inflexibility of such a system in the culturally and geographically diverse school contexts across the US. Conclusions: The concept of national curriculum can be differently interpreted in different countries based on sociocultural, historical, and contextual factors, and its relevance depends primarily on one's perceptions and previous experiences.		[Oh, Junghwan; Graber, Kim C.] Univ Illinois, Urbana, IL USA; [Oh, Junghwan] Univ Illinois, Kinesiol & Community Hlth, Louise Freer Hall,906 S Goodwin Ave, Urbana, IL 61801 USA								10							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000471407400001	52	Article; Article		
J	Morris, Cody E.; Wessel, Paige A.; Tinius, Rachel A.; Schafer, Mark A.; Maples, Jill M.								Validity of Activity Trackers in Estimating Energy Expenditure During High-Intensity Functional Training								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				90	3			377	384		10.1080/02701367.2019.1603989			JUL 3 2019	2019	Purpose: The purpose of this study was to evaluate the agreement of five commercially available accelerometers in estimating energy expenditure while performing an acute bout of high-intensity functional training (HIFT). Methods: Participants (n = 47; average age: 28.5 +/- 11.6 years) consisted of recreationally active, healthy adults. Each participant completed a session of HIFT: a 15-minute workout consisting of 12 repetitions each of air-squats, sit-ups, push-ups, lunges, pull-ups, steps-ups, and high-knees; performed circuit-style by completing as many rounds as possible. During this session, each participant wore the Cosmed K4b2 portable metabolic analyzer (PMA) and five different accelerometers (ActiGraph GT3X, Nike Fuelband, Fitbit One, Fitbit Charge HR, and Jawbone UP Move). Results: Four of the five activity trackers reported lower (p < .05) total EE values compared to the PMA during the acute bout of HIFT. The waist-mounted device (ActiGraph, 182.55 +/- 37.93 kcal) was not significantly different from, and most closely estimated caloric expenditure compared to the PMA (144.99 +/- 37.13 kcal) (p = .056). A repeated-measures ANOVA showed that all activity trackers were significantly different from the reference measure (PMA) (p < .05). Systematic relative agreement between the activity trackers was calculated, exhibiting a significant ICC = 0.426 (F [46,230] = 5.446 [p < .05]). Conclusion: The wrist- and hip-mounted activity trackers did not accurately assess energy expenditure during HIFT exercise. With the exception of the ActiGraph GT3X, the remaining four activity trackers showed inaccurate estimates of the amount of kilocalories expended during the HIFT exercise bout compared to the PMA.		[Morris, Cody E.] Univ Alabama Birmingham, Birmingham, AL USA; [Wessel, Paige A.; Tinius, Rachel A.; Schafer, Mark A.] Western Kentucky Univ, Bowling Green, KY USA; [Maples, Jill M.] Univ Tennessee, Knoxville, TN 37996 USA; [Morris, Cody E.] Univ Alabama Birmingham, Dept Human Studies, 901 13th St South, Birmingham, AL 35205 USA								19							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000471406000001	31	Article; Article		
J	Jung, Taeyou; Kim, Yumi; Lim, Hyosok; Vrongistinos, Konstantinos								The influence of water depth on kinematic and spatiotemporal gait parameters during aquatic treadmill walking								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				18	3			297	307		10.1080/14763141.2017.1409255			MAY 4 2019	2019	The purpose of this study was to investigate kinematic and spatiotemporal variables of aquatic treadmill walking at three different water depths. A total of 15 healthy individuals completed three two-minute walking trials at three different water depths. The aquatic treadmill walking was conducted at waist-depth, chest-depth and neck-depth, while a customised 3-D underwater motion analysis system captured their walking. Each participant's self-selected walking speed at the waist level was used as a reference speed, which was applied to the remaining two test conditions. A repeated measures ANOVA showed statistically significant differences among the three walking conditions in stride length, cadence, peak hip extension, hip range of motion (ROM), peak ankle plantar flexion and ankle ROM (All p values < 0.05). The participants walked with increased stride length and decreased cadence during neck level as compared to waist and chest level. They also showed increased ankle ROM and decreased hip ROM as the water depth rose from waist and chest to the neck level. However, our study found no significant difference between waist and chest level water in all variables. Hydrodynamics, such as buoyancy and drag force, in response to changes in water depths, can affect gait patterns during aquatic treadmill walking.		[Jung, Taeyou; Kim, Yumi; Lim, Hyosok; Vrongistinos, Konstantinos] Calif State Univ Northridge, Dept Kinesiol, Northridge, CA 91330 USA; [Jung, Taeyou] Calif State Univ Northridge, Dept Kinesiol, Northridge, CA 91330 USA								8							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000468948200007	35	Article; Article		
J	Lu, Wei; Boyas, Sebastien; Jubeau, Marc; Rahmani, Abderrahmane								Reliability of force-velocity relationships during deadlift high pull								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				18	3			277	288		10.1080/14763141.2017.1391325			MAY 4 2019	2019	This study aimed to evaluate the within- and between-session reliability of force, velocity and power performances and to assess the force-velocity relationship during the deadlift high pull (DHP). Nine participants performed two identical sessions of DHP with loads ranging from 30 to 70% of body mass. The force was measured by a force plate under the participants' feet. The velocity of the 'body + lifted mass' system was calculated by integrating the acceleration and the power was calculated as the product of force and velocity. The force-velocity relationships were obtained from linear regression of both mean and peak values of force and velocity. The within- and between-session reliability was evaluated by using coefficients of variation (CV) and intraclass correlation coefficients (ICC). Results showed that DHP force-velocity relationships were significantly linear (R-2 > 0.90, p < 0.05). Within sessions and between sessions, mean and peak forces during DHP showed a strong agreement (CV < 3%, ICC > 0.94), mean and peak velocities showed a good agreement (CV < 9%, 0.78 < ICC < 0.92). It was concluded that DHP performance and its force-velocity relationships are highly reliable and can therefore be utilised as a tool to characterise individuals' muscular profiles.		[Lu, Wei; Boyas, Sebastien; Rahmani, Abderrahmane] Le Mans Univ, Fac Sci & Technol, Lab Movement Interact Performance, Le Mans, France; [Jubeau, Marc] Univ Nantes, Fac Sport Sci, Lab Movement Interact Performance, Nantes, France; [Rahmani, Abderrahmane] Le Mans Univ, Fac Sci & Technol, Lab Movement Interact Performance, Le Mans, France								4							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000468948200005	28	Article; Article		
J	Knudson, Duane								Citation metrics of excellence in sports biomechanics research								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				18	3			289	296		10.1080/14763141.2017.1391328			MAY 4 2019	2019	This study extended research on key citation metrics of winners of two career scholar awards in sports biomechanics. Google Scholar (GS) was searched using Harzing's Publish or Perish software for the 13 most recent winners of the ISBS Geoffrey Dyson Award and the ASB Jim Hay Memorial Award. Returned records were corrected for author, and publications excluded for all but peer-reviewed journal articles, proceedings articles, chapters and books in English. These recent award winners had published about 150 publications that had been cited typically 4,082 and 6,648 times over a 26- and 28-year period before receiving these career awards for sports biomechanics research. Estimated median citations at time of their awards were 2,927 and 4,907 for the Dyson and Hay awards, respectively. Award winners had mean Hirsh indexes of 32-45 and mean h(i) of 19-28. Their mean g indexes (59-84) and their numerous citation classics (C > 100) indicated that they had many influential publications. The citation metrics of these scholars were outstanding and consistent with recent studies of top scholars in biomechanics and kinesiology/exercise science. Careful searching, cleaning and interpretation of several scholar-level citation metrics may provide useful confirmatory evidence for evaluations of awards committees.		[Knudson, Duane] Texas State Univ, Dept Hlth & Human Performance, Coll Educ, San Marcos, TX 78666 USA; [Knudson, Duane] Texas State Univ, Dept Hlth & Human Performance, Coll Educ, San Marcos, TX 78666 USA								5							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000468948200006	37	Article; Article		
J	Hickman, Daniel C.; Kerr, Craig; Metz, Neil								Rank and Performance in Dynamic Tournaments: Evidence From the PGA Tour								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				20	4			509	534		10.1177/1527002518794788			MAY 2019	2019	Using data from the final round of golf tournaments, we analyze the effect of player rank on performance. The identification of varying levels of pressure is possible due to the detailed nature of the data set, which allows us to determine the rank of each player just prior to teeing off on each hole. We find that players in the lead tend to underperform, especially near the very end of the tournament and when the lead is closely contested. We also create a measure to rank individual golfers based on how their performance is affected by high-pressure situations.		[Hickman, Daniel C.] Univ Idaho, Dept Business, 875 Perimeter Dr,MS 3161, Moscow, ID 83844 USA; [Kerr, Craig] Calif State Polytech Univ Pomona, Dept Econ, Pomona, CA 91768 USA; [Metz, Neil] Univ Cent Oklahoma, Dept Econ, Edmond, OK USA; [Hickman, Daniel C.] Univ Idaho, Dept Business, 875 Perimeter Dr,MS 3161, Moscow, ID 83844 USA								12							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000464029300002	33	Article; Article		
J	Cartwright, Edward								Guilt Aversion and Reciprocity in the Performance-Enhancing Drug Game								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				20	4			535	555		10.1177/1527002518794793			MAY 2019	2019	We revisit the performance-enhancing drug game by applying models of guilt aversion and reciprocity. Both models fit within the framework of psychological game theory in that they allow payoffs to depend on beliefs. We explore the extent to which social norms can help reduce or eliminate doping in sport. With reciprocity, we see that first-order beliefs on the prevalence of doping are key and a norm of clean sport would require a coordinated shift in such beliefs. With guilt aversion, by contrast, second-order beliefs are key and individuals may have an incentive to race clean even if they expect competitors will dope. Our results point to the importance for sports bodies and coaches to manage the beliefs of athletes.		[Cartwright, Edward] De Montfort Univ, Dept Strateg Management & Mkt, Leicester LE1 9BH, Leics, England; [Cartwright, Edward] De Montfort Univ, Dept Strateg Management & Mkt, Leicester LE1 9BH, Leics, England								4							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000464029300003	54	Article; Article		
J	Henderson, Zachariah J.; Sanzo, Paolo; Zerpa, Carlos; Kivi, Derek								Ankle bracing's effects on lower extremity iEMG activity, force production, and jump height during a Vertical Jump Test: An exploratory study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				37				171	178		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.04.002			MAY 2019	2019	Objective: To determine if softshell (AE) and semi-rigid (T1) ankle braces affect lower extremity iEMG activity, force, and jump height during a Vertical Jump Test. Design: Repeated measures, crossover. Setting: Laboratory. Participants: 42 healthy, active individuals. Outcome measures: Vertical jump height, iEMG activity, peak vGRF. Results: There was significant change across conditions in lateral gastrocnemius (LG) iEMG activity, F(2,70) = 5.31, p =.007, eta p2 = 0.132, with T1 LG iEMG being significantly less (-2.08(99% CI, -3.98 to 0.18) %MVIC, p = .004) than no brace. Significant changes were seen in rectus femoris (RF) iEMG activity, F(2,68) = 6.36, p = .003, eta p2 = 0.158, with T1 RF iEMG activity being significantly less than AE RF iEMG activity (-2.78(99% CI, -5.36 to -0.19) %MVIC, p = .005). There was a significant change in vertical jump height across conditions, F(2,78) = 22.13, p <.0005, eta p2 = 0.362, with a significant decrease in the AE (-2.41(99% CI, -3.66 to -1.17) cm, p < .0005) and T1 conditions (-2.89(99% CI,-4.56 to -1.23) cm, p <.0005), compared to no brace. Conclusion: Vertical jump height is significantly reduced when wearing ankle braces. Effects on lower extremity iEMG activity are dependent upon brace type. Crown Copyright (C) 2019 Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Henderson, Zachariah J.; Sanzo, Paolo; Zerpa, Carlos; Kivi, Derek] Lakehead Univ, Sch Kinesiol, Thunder Bay, ON, Canada; [Henderson, Zachariah J.] Univ Manitoba, Appl Hlth Sci, 66 Chancellors Cir, Winnipeg, MB R3T 2N2, Canada; [Sanzo, Paolo] Northern Ontario Sch Med, Thunder Bay, ON, Canada; [Henderson, Zachariah J.] Univ Manitoba, Appl Hlth Sci, 66 Chancellors Cir, Winnipeg, MB R3T 2N2, Canada								7							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000468716400027	35	Article; Article		
J	Kuppens, Kevin; Feijen, Stef; Roussel, Nathalie; Nijs, Jo; Cras, Patrick; van Wilgen, Paul; Struyf, Filip								Training volume is associated with pain sensitivity, but not with endogenous pain modulation, in competitive swimmers								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				37				150	156		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.04.001			MAY 2019	2019	Objectives: To investigate the association of pain sensitivity and endogenous analgesia capacity, and training volume in a group of competitive swimmers. Design: An observational multi-center study. Setting: Multiple competitive swimming clubs. Participants: 102 healthy competitive swimmers. Main outcome measures: Training volume was estimated using self-reported information. Static and dynamic measures of pain were assessed using pressure pain thresholds (PPTs) and conditioned pain modulation (CPM), the latter as a measure of endogenous pain inhibition. Selected demographic and psychosocial measures were considered as possible confounding factors. Results: Moderate positive correlations (0.38 < r < 0.44; p < 0.01) exist between self-reported training volume and PPTs at widespread body areas in competitive swimmers. These results were maintained during linear regression analysis while addressing possible confounding factors such as age and selected psychosocial factors. No associations were found between self-reported training volume and conditioned pain modulation (-0.08 < r < 0.06; p > 0.05). Conclusions: Self-reported swim training volume is associated with pain sensitivity in competitive swimmers. Swimmers who train more show higher pressure pain thresholds, indicating lower pain sensitivity. Swim training volume is not associated with endogenous nociceptive inhibitory capacity as determined using CPM. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Kuppens, Kevin; Feijen, Stef; Roussel, Nathalie; Nijs, Jo; Cras, Patrick; Struyf, Filip] Univ Antwerp, Fac Med & Hlth Sci, Rehabil Sci & Physiotherapy, Antwerp, Belgium; [Kuppens, Kevin; Nijs, Jo; van Wilgen, Paul] Vrije Univ Brussel, Fac Phys Educ & Physiotherapy, Dept Human Physiol & Physiotherapy, Brussels, Belgium; [Nijs, Jo] Univ Hosp Brussels, Dept Physiotherapy & Rehabil, Brussels, Belgium; [Cras, Patrick] Univ Hosp Antwerp, Dept Neurol, Antwerp, Belgium; [van Wilgen, Paul] Transcare, Transdisciplinary Pain Management Ctr, Delft, Netherlands; [Struyf, Filip] Campus Drie Eiken,Univ Pl 1 DS 032, B-2610 Antwerp, Belgium; [Struyf, Filip] Univ Antwerp, Fac Med & Hlth Sci, Dept Rehabil Sci & Physiotherapy, Antwerp, Belgium; [Struyf, Filip] Campus Drie Eiken,Univ Pl 1 DS 032, B-2610 Antwerp, Belgium								7							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000468716400024	38	Article; Article		
J	Desmyttere, Gauthier; Gaudet, Sylvain; Begon, Mickael								Test-retest reliability of a hip strength assessment system in varsity soccer players								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				37				138	143		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.03.013			MAY 2019	2019	Objective: To investigate test-retest reliability of a hip strength assessment system (GroinBar). Design: Test-retest reliability study. Setting: Laboratory. Participants: Twenty asymptomatic varsity soccer players. Main outcome measures: Maximal isometric hip strength (adduction, abduction, internal and external rotation, flexion and extension) was assessed using the GroinBar. Intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC) and relative standard error of measurement (SEM) were calculated to evaluate reliability of peak (ICC3,1) (highest peak within 3 trials) and average peak (ICC3,3) (average of 3 trials) force and rate of force development (RFD). Hotelling's T-2, were also used to compare bilateral and reciprocal ratios between dominant and non-dominant leg. Results: ICC for both peak force and RFD values revealed moderate to good reliability (0.53-0.88 and 0.61-0.84, respectively), whereas reliability was good to excellent regarding their average values (0.77-0.95 and 0.81-0.92, respectively). SEM of average peak force and RFD values (4.1-9.4% and 8.2-13.9%, respectively) were lower than that of peak force and RFD values (5.7-13.0% and 10.7-19.1%, respectively). No significant difference was found in bilateral and reciprocal force ratios between dominant and non-dominant leg. Conclusions: The GroinBar is a reliable tool to assess hip muscle function in athletic populations and could be used for player screening and follow-up. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Desmyttere, Gauthier; Gaudet, Sylvain; Begon, Mickael] Univ Montreal, Fac Med, Ecole Kinesiol & Sci Act Phys, Campus Laval,1700 Rue Jacques Tetreault, Laval, PQ H7N 0B6, Canada; [Desmyttere, Gauthier] 1700 Rue Jacques Tetreault, Laval, PQ H7N 0B6, Canada								55							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000468716400022	31	Article; Article		
J	Kim, Soo Yong; Weon, Jong-Hyuck; Jung, Do-Young; Oh, Jae-Seop								Effect of the scapula-setting exercise on acromio-humeral distance and scapula muscle activity in patients with subacromial impingement syndrome								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				37				99	104		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.03.006			MAY 2019	2019	Objectives: The aim of present study was to investigate the effect of the scapula setting exercise on acromio-humeral distance (AHD) and the activity of scapula muscles in patients with subacromial impingement syndrome (SIS). Study design: Cross sectional study. Setting: Pusan National University Yangsan Hospital in South Korea. Participants: Twenty-eight patients with SIS. Main outcome measures: We measured AHD by ultrasound and muscle activation of the serratus anterior (SA), upper trapezius (UT), middle trapezius (MT), and lower trapezius (LT) by surface electromyography and compared outcome measures between patients with and without the SSE. The SSE involved maintaining the scapula in upward rotation with posterior tilting in the resting position, and passive shoulder elevation at 60 degrees in the scapula plane. Results: The AHD (rest and 60 degrees : P < 0.001), as well as muscle activity of SA (rest: P = 0.001, 60 degrees : P = 0.004), MT (rest: P < 0.001, 60 degrees : P = 0.001), and LT (rest: P = 0.001, 60 degrees : P < 0.001), was significantly increased by SSE with the arm at rest and with passive 60 degrees shoulder elevation. Conclusions: These findings suggest that the SSE could be used to increase the AHD and activity of the serratus anterior, middle trapezius, and lower trapezius muscles in patients with SIS. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Kim, Soo Yong] Pusan Natl Univ, Yangsan Hosp, Dept Phys Therapy, Yangsan, Gyeongsangnam D, South Korea; [Weon, Jong-Hyuck; Jung, Do-Young] JOONGBU Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Chubu Myeon, Chungcheongnam, South Korea; [Oh, Jae-Seop] INJE Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Coll Biomed Sci & Engn, Gimhae, Gyeongsangnam D, South Korea; [Oh, Jae-Seop] INJE Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Coll Biomed Sci & Engn, 607 Obang Dong, Gimhae Si 621749, Gyeongsangnam D, South Korea								12							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000468716400017	30	Article; Article		
J	Johnson, Adam Paul; Ward, Sarah; Simmonds, Jane								The Lower Limb Assessment Score: A valid measure of hypermobility in elite football?								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				37				86	90		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.03.007			MAY 2019	2019	Objective: This study aims to validate the Lower Limb Assessment Score against the current gold standard Beighton Scale within an adult elite footballing population to allow for future research to explore the influence of lower limb specific hypermobility on injury incidence. Design: Observational cohort study. Setting: Thirty-six male, professional footballers aged between 18 and 37 years old. Main outcome measures: The Sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value, negative predictive value and Spearman's rank correlation between the LLAS and Beighton Scale. Results: There was significant strong correlation between LLAS and Beighton Scale scores (rho = 0.732; p <0.001). The LLAS displayed a sensitivity of 67% and specificity of 94% when a cut off of >= 4/12 was applied to the screening data. This cut off point also yielded moderate Positive Predictive Validity (50%) and excellent Negative Predictive Validity (97%). Conclusions: The present study suggests that the LLAS is a valid test for identifying lower limb hyper mobility within an adult male footballing population when a cut off of >= 4/12 is used. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Johnson, Adam Paul] Amer Express Elite Football Performance Ctr, Brighton & Hove Alb Football Club, 60 Mash Barn Lane, Lancing BN15 9FP, England; [Johnson, Adam Paul; Ward, Sarah] Univ Bath, Dept Hlth, Bath, Avon, England; [Ward, Sarah] Univ Coll Dublin, Sch Publ Hlth Physiotherapy & Sports Sci, Dublin 4, Ireland; [Simmonds, Jane] UCL, Great Ormond St Inst Child Hlth, London, England; [Johnson, Adam Paul] Amer Express Elite Football Performance Ctr, Brighton & Hove Alb Football Club, 60 Mash Barn Lane, Lancing BN15 9FP, England								2							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000468716400015	21	Article; Article		
J	McKenzie, Chloe R.; Whatman, Chris; Brughelli, Matt; Borotkanics, Robert								The effect of the NetballSmart Dynamic Warm-up on physical performance in youth netball players								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				37				91	98		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.03.005			MAY 2019	2019	Objectives: To investigate the efficacy of the NetballSmart Dynamic Warm-up in improving physical performance measures in New Zealand secondary school netball players. Design: Cluster randomised controlled trial. Setting: A seven-week intervention study in secondary school netball. Participants: 81 youth netball players (Intervention group, n = 45; Control group, n = 36). Main outcome measures: Performance measures included prone hold, change of direction, sprint, vertical and horizontal jump, Y-balance and time-to-stabilisation. Mixed effects models and t-tests were used to determine significant differences of pre and post measures between groups. Results: Significant improvements in prone hold (beta= 20.46 s; p = 0.01) and vertical jump (beta = 6.73 cm; p = 0.01) were found in the intervention group compared to the control group, while horizontal jump was found to significantly decrease (beta = 9.86 cm; p = 0.03) in comparison to the control group. Conclusions: The results of this study show the NetballSmart Dynamic Warm-up can improve some physical performance measures in youth netball players. It is recommended that coaches should consider implementing the warm-up in their netball programmes. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		Auckland Univ Technol, Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand, Sch Sport & Recreat, Auckland, New Zealand; [McKenzie, Chloe R.; Whatman, Chris; Brughelli, Matt; Borotkanics, Robert] Auckland Univ Technol, Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand, Level 2,AUT Millennium Campus,17 Antares Pl, Auckland 1020, New Zealand; [McKenzie, Chloe R.] Auckland Univ Technol, Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand, Level 2,AUT Millennium Campus,17 Antares Pl, Auckland 1020, New Zealand								17							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000468716400016	49	Article; Article		
J	O'Neill, Seth; Barry, Simon; Watson, Paul								Plantarflexor strength and endurance deficits associated with mid-portion Achilles tendinopathy: The role of soleus								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				37				69	76		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.03.002			MAY 2019	2019	Objectives: Determine how the strength and endurance of the plantar flexors are affected by Achilles tendinopathy and whether one muscle is more affected than another. Design: Case control study. Setting: University Laboratory. Participants: 39 Runners with mid-portion Achilles tendinopathy and 38 healthy runners participated in this study. Main outcome measures: Isokinetic dynamometry was completed bilaterally in two knee positions on all subjects to assess the torque and endurance capacity of the plantar flexors. Results: Subjects with Achilles tendinopathy were statistically weaker (by 26.1Nm Concentric 90 degrees/sec, 14,8Nm Concentric 225 degrees/sec and 55.5Nm Eccentric 90 degrees/sec for knee extended testing and 17.3Nm, 10.1Nm and 52.3Nm for the flexed knee respectively) than healthy controls at all isokinetic test speeds and contraction modes irrespective of knee position (p value = <0.001). The endurance capacity of the plantar flexors was significantly reduced (Total work done 613.5Nm less) in subjects with Achilles tendinopathy when compared to the healthy controls (p value = <0.001). Conclusions: Achilles tendinopathy is associated with large deficits in plantar flexor torque and endurance. The deficits are bilateral in nature and appear to be explained by a greater loss of the soleus force generating capacity rather than the gastrocnemius. (C) 2019 Published by Elsevier Ltd.		[O'Neill, Seth; Barry, Simon] Univ Leicester, Dept Life Sci, Sch Allied Hlth, Leicester, Leics, England; [Watson, Paul] Univ Leicester, Dept Hlth Sci, Leicester, Leics, England; [O'Neill, Seth] Univ Leicester, Dept Life Sci, Sch Allied Hlth, Leicester, Leics, England								66							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000468716400013	83	Article; Article		
J	Romero-Morales, Carlos; Javier Martin-Llantino, Pedro; Calvo-Lobo, Cesar; Sanchez-Gomez, Ruben; Lopez-Lopez, Daniel; Pareja-Galeano, Helios; Rodriguez-Sanz, David								Ultrasound evaluation of extrinsic foot muscles in patients with chronic non-insertional Achilles tendinopathy: A case-control study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				37				44	48		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.02.006			MAY 2019	2019	Aim: The purpose of the present study was to compare and quantify with ultrasound imaging (USI) the extensor digitorum longus (EDL), tibialis anterior (TA) and peroneus muscles (PER) muscle thickness and cross-sectional area (CSA) between chronic non-insertional Achilles tendinopathy (AT) and healthy subjects. Methods: a sample of 143 individuals was recruited and divided in two groups: chronic non-insertional AT group (n = 71) and a healthy group (n = 72). The thickness and CSA were assessment by USI for EDL, TA and PER muscles in both groups. Results: The thickness evaluation for the TA muscle increased showing statistically significant differences (P = 0.018) as well as for the thickness of the PER muscles significant differences (P = 0.001) were observed in favor the tendinopathy group. The CSA measurements showed statistically significant differences for a decrease in EDL (P = 0.000), TA (P = 0.001) and PER muscles (P = 0.011) for the tendinopathy group with respect to the control group. Conclusions: The CSA of the EDL, TA and PER muscles is reduced in participants with chronic non insertional AT. The thickness for TA muscle is increased as well as a decrease of PER muscles thickness is presented for the AT group with respect to the control group. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Romero-Morales, Carlos; Javier Martin-Llantino, Pedro; Sanchez-Gomez, Ruben; Pareja-Galeano, Helios; Rodriguez-Sanz, David] Univ Europea Madrid, Fac Sports Sci, Madrid, Spain; [Calvo-Lobo, Cesar] Univ Leon, Inst Biomed IBIOMED, Fac Hlth Sci, Nursing & Phys Therapy Dept, Ponferrada, Spain; [Sanchez-Gomez, Ruben; Rodriguez-Sanz, David] Univ Complutense Madrid, Fac Enfermeria Fisioterapia & Podol, Madrid, Spain; [Lopez-Lopez, Daniel] Univ A Coruna, Fac Nursing & Podiatry, Dept Hlth Sci, Res Hlth & Podiatry Unit, Ferrol, Spain; [Lopez-Lopez, Daniel] Univ A Coruna, Unidade Invest Saude & Podoloxia, Dept Ciencias Saude, Fac Enfermaria & Podoloxia, Campus Univ Esteiro S-N, Ferrol 15403, Spain								13							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000468716400007	38	Article; Article		
J	Sarto, Fabio; Grigoletto, Davide; Baggio, Elisabetta; Paoli, Antonio; Marcolin, Giuseppe								Do lower limb previous injuries affect balance performance? An observational study in volleyball players								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				37				49	53		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.02.009			MAY 2019	2019	Objectives: To study static and dynamic postural balance control in elite and sub-elite male volleyball players with or without a history of musculoskeletal lower limb injuries. Design: Cross-sectional study. Setting: Laboratory. Participants: Data were obtained from 45 male volleyball players, divided into healthy (CON, n = 28) and previously injured (INJ, n = 17) players by means of an injury self-reported questionnaire. Main outcomes measure: Static postural balance parameters were recorded carrying out a monopodalic test with the dominant leg on a stabilometric platform. Dynamic postural balance was assessed with the modified Star Excursion Balance Test (mSEBT) in its version based on three directions (anterior, posterolateral and postero-medial). Results: No statistically significant differences were detected between CON and INJ for all the static postural balance parameters considered. Conversely, the mSEBT results underlined a statistically significant decrease of the performance in the three directions (P <.001) for INJ with respect to CON. Conclusions: The mSEBT should be employed in male volleyball players with a history of musculoskeletal lower limb injuries to better assess postural balance control alterations. Moreover, the decrement of the dynamic balance performance may indicate that, before returning to competitions, the rehabilitation protocol should be more focused on dynamic balance exercises. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Sarto, Fabio; Baggio, Elisabetta] Univ Padua, Sch Human Movement Sci, Padua, Italy; [Grigoletto, Davide; Paoli, Antonio; Marcolin, Giuseppe] Univ Padua, Dept Biomed Sci, Padua, Italy; [Marcolin, Giuseppe] Dept Biomed Sci, Via Marzolo 3, I-35131 Padua, Italy								8							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000468716400008	40	Article; Article		
J	Greig, Matt								Concurrent changes in eccentric hamstring strength and knee joint kinematics induced by soccer-specific fatigue								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				37				21	26		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.02.003			MAY 2019	2019	Objectives: To investigate the influence of soccer-specific fatigue on concurrent changes in knee joint kinematics and hamstring strength, given the increased risk of injury during the latter stages of match play and the prevalence of knee joint and hamstring muscular injury. Design: Repeated measures, randomized order trials. Setting: Laboratory. Participants: Ten male professional soccer players. Main outcome measures: Reactive inversion, eversion and neutral hop tasks were completed at 15 min intervals during a soccer-specific protocol, with touchdown knee joint kinematics in the frontal and sagittal planes calculated at 200 Hz. In a separate trial, players completed maximal eccentric knee flexions at 160 degrees.s(-1) (reflecting average knee angular velocity in the functional task) at 15 min intervals, quantifying peak torque. Results: All trials were characterized by knee varus at touchdown, with similar to 4 degrees greater mal-alignment elicited over the final 15 min of the protocol (P <= 0.05). Peak eccentric hamstring strength was significantly (P = 0.045) reduced throughout the 2nd half. Conclusions: The coincident impairment of eccentric hamstring strength and increased knee varus at touchdown predisposes the player to injury, supporting epidemiological observations. Knee varus in these elite male players is in marked contrast to the valgus associated with ACL injury risk in female players. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Greig, Matt] Edge Hill Univ, Sports Injuries Res Grp, St Helens Rd, Ormskirk L39 4QP, Lancs, England; [Greig, Matt] Edge Hill Univ, Sports Injuries Res Grp, St Helens Rd, Ormskirk L39 4QP, Lancs, England								10							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000468716400004	28	Article; Article		
J	Gokeler, Alli; Dingenen, Bart								Between-session and inter-rater reliability of the modified tuck jump assessment in healthy adult athletes								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				37				10	14		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.02.002			MAY 2019	2019	Objectives: This study aimed to determine the between-session and inter-rater reliability of the modified tuck jump assessment (TJA). Design: Reliability study. Setting: Human movement laboratory. Participants: Sixteen recreational participants (8 females, 8 males; mean age: 22.4 years) participated in the study. Participants performed the modified TJA in two sessions separated by one week. Main outcome measures: Between-session and inter-rater reliability were determined by two independent raters. The standard error of measurement (SEM) and smallest detectable difference (SDD) were calculated. Results: The between-session reliability for the total scores was excellent for rater 1 (ICC = 0.93, 95% CI = 0.78-0.98) and rater 2 (ICC = 0.96, 95% CI = 0.89-0.99), with SEM's and SDD's ranging between 0.5-0.7 and 1.3-2.1 respectively. The inter-rater reliability for the total scores was good for session 1 (ICC = 0.85, 95% Cl = 0.58-0.95) and session 2 (ICC = 0.88, 95% CI = 0.66-0.96). In general, there was poor agreement for item analysis for both raters between sessions as well as between raters. Conclusion: The modified TJA revealed excellent between-session and good inter-rater reliability for the total score. Reliability for the between-session was poor for the individual items. The relatively poor reliability for the individual items imply that caution is warranted when solely interpreting the total score. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Gokeler, Alli] Luxembourg Inst Res Orthoped Sports Med & Sci LIR, 76 Rue Eich, L-1460 Luxembourg, Luxembourg; [Gokeler, Alli] Paderborn Univ, Fac Sci, Dept Exercise & Hlth, Exercise Sci & Neurosci, Paderborn, Germany; [Dingenen, Bart] Hasselt Univ, Fac Rehabil Sci, Reval Rehabil Res Ctr, Agoralaan, B-3590 Diepenbeek, Belgium; [Gokeler, Alli] Luxembourg Inst Res Orthoped Sports Med & Sci LIR, 76 Rue Eich, L-1460 Luxembourg, Luxembourg								7							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000468716400002	21	Article; Article		
J	Leister, Iris; Kulnik, Stefan Tino; Kindermann, Harald; Ortmaier, Reinhold; Barthofer, Juergen; Vasvary, Imre; Katzensteiner, Klaus; Mattiassich, Georg								Functional performance testing and return to sport criteria in patients after anterior cruciate ligament injury 12-18 months after index surgery: A cross-sectional observational study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				37				1	9		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.01.010			MAY 2019	2019	Objectives: Objective return to sport (RTS) criteria after anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) injury are lacking. Study purposes were (1) to report Limb Symmetry Index (LSI) values achieved in a test battery, (2) to detect how many subjects meet RTS criteria 12-18 months post-operative and (3) to identify whether patient-administered scores predict RTS criteria. Design: Observer-blinded, cross-sectional observational study. Setting: Traumacenter Linz, Austria. Participants: Eighty-eight subjects (48 females; mean (SD) age: 34.73 (10.8) years); Twenty-five had undergone ACL repair (IB), 21 ACL reconstruction (AI). Forty-two healthy subjects served as control. Main outcome measures: Participants were evaluated using a single-leg hop test battery. The variable of interest was meeting the RTS criteria by reaching defined cut-off values. Logistic regression was used to investigate the relationship between subjective scores (IKDC, WOMAC, KOOS, Lysholm) and fulfillment of RTS criteria. Additionally, subjective physical activity and anterior knee translation were assessed. Results: Thirty-six percent of IB patients and 28.6% of Al patients met RTS criteria. None of the included scores produced significant odds to predict RTS. Conclusions: Subjective scores, clinical examinations and fulfillment of RTS criteria did not differ significantly between groups. Maximum anterior translation revealed a significant difference (p = 0.009) in favor of the Al group. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Leister, Iris] Paracelsus Med Univ Salzburg, Inst Mol Regenerat Med, Spinal Cord Injury & Tissue Regenerat Ctr Salzbur, Salzburg, Austria; [Kulnik, Stefan Tino] Univ Appl Sci, Dept Hlth Sci, FH Campus Wien, Vienna, Austria; [Kulnik, Stefan Tino] Kingston Univ, Fac Hlth Social Care & Educ, London, England; [Kulnik, Stefan Tino] St Georges Univ London, London, England; [Kindermann, Harald] Univ Appl Sci Upper Austria, Dept Mkt & Elect Business, Steyr, Austria; [Ortmaier, Reinhold] Paracelcus Med Univ Salzburg, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Ordensklinikum Linz Barmherzige Schwestern, Teaching Hosp, Linz, Austria; [Ortmaier, Reinhold] Inst Sports Med Alpine Med & Hlth Tourism ISAG, UMIT, Res Unit Orthoped Sports Med & Injury Prevent, Hall In Tirol, Austria; [Barthofer, Juergen; Katzensteiner, Klaus] Paracelsus Med Univ Salzburg, Teaching Hosp, Traumactr Linz, Linz, Austria; [Vasvary, Imre] Paracelsus Med Univ, Dept Radiol, Salzburg, Austria; [Mattiassich, Georg] Ludwig Boltzmann Inst Expt & Clin Traumatol, Vienna, Austria; [Mattiassich, Georg] Med Univ Graz, Teaching Hosp, Traumactr Graz, Graz, Austria; [Leister, Iris] Paracelsus Med Univ, Spinal Cord Injury & Tissue Regenerat Ctr Salzbur, Inst Mol Regenerat Med, Strubergasse 22, A-5020 Salzburg, Austria								18							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000468716400001	63	Article; Article		
J	Ammar, Achraf; Riemann, Bryan L.; Trabelsi, Khaled; Blaumann, Marcel; Abdelkarim, Osama; Chtourou, Hamdi; Driss, Tarak; Hoekelmann, Anita								Comparison of 2-and 3-Minute Inter-Repetition Rest Periods on Maximal Jerk Technique and Power Maintenance								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				90	3			287	296		10.1080/02701367.2019.1594664			JUL 3 2019	2019	Purpose: The aim of this study was to examine the effect of 3- vs. 2-minute inter maximal-repetition rest period (IMRRP) on maintaining jerk technical efficiency and power production during two successive maximal repetitions of Clean & Jerk (C&J). Methods: In a randomized, within subject, repeated measures design, nine elite-weightlifters (age: 24.4 +/- 3.6 years, body mass: 77.2 +/- 7.1 kg, height 176.0 +/- 6.4 cm and 1RM C&J: 170.0 +/- 5.0 kg) performed 2-separate testing sessions using 2 (IMRRP-2) and 3 (IMRRP-3) -minute IMRRP, while barbell kinematics and kinetics and joint kinematics were recorded. Results: Statistical analysis showed that one minute longer IMRRP enhanced the maintenance of optimal jerk technique evidenced by reducing declines in peak vertical barbell displacement (2.74%; p = .03), peak barbell velocity (2.89%; p = .03), and peak knee (1.61%; p = .03) and hip extensions (1.59%; p = .03) during the drive phase of the jerk. Additionally, IMRRP-3 led to maintaining optimal lifting strategy by reducing the increase in horizontal displacement during the descending (3.85%; p = .04) and ascending (5.42%; p = .02) phases. Increasing IMRRP from 2min to 3min was also shown to enhance kinetic variables evidenced by prompting higher peak vGRF (2.01%; p = .04) and power (2.55%; p = .04). Conclusion: To better identify an athlete's maximal jerk technique and power maintenance, the results of this study suggest 3min as more appropriate IMRRP during successive C&J at 100% 1RM.		[Ammar, Achraf; Blaumann, Marcel; Abdelkarim, Osama; Hoekelmann, Anita] Otto von Guericke Univ, Magdeburg, Germany; [Ammar, Achraf; Trabelsi, Khaled; Chtourou, Hamdi] Sfax Univ, Sfax, Tunisia; [Riemann, Bryan L.] Georgia Southern Univ, Statesboro, GA USA; [Driss, Tarak] Univ Paris Nanterre, Paris, France; [Ammar, Achraf] Sfax Univ, High Inst Sport & Phys Educ Sfax, BP 1068, Sfax 3000, Tunisia								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000465988800001	45	Article; Article		
J	Hastie, Peter A.; Rudisill, Mary E.; Boyd, Korey; Johnson, Jerraco L.								Examining the Pathway to Motor Skill Competence in a Mastery Motivational Climate: An Appreciative Inquiry								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				90	3			259	269		10.1080/02701367.2019.1593921			JUL 3 2019	2019	Purpose: This study followed a strengths-based approach to identify the pathway children follow as they develop from novice to skillful learners during a mastery-motivational physical education setting. Method: Eleven 4-year-old children (nine boys) participated in a motor activity program delivered twice weekly across 26 weeks. The teacher participated in monthly 30-45-min interviews that sought to identify the critical moments of the program as it had progressed to that point in time. Photographic images of the children's experiences in the climate acted as prompts during interviews. Interview transcripts were subject to a deductive analysis in which the ideas of "what was working well" and "what the future might look like" were the initial categories. Results: Interview and photo analyses revealed that the children moved through three phases on their pathway towards mastery. In phase 1, "captivation" and "exploration," the children presented the teacher with challenges in developing the managerial system. In phase 2, "cooperation" and "consolidation," there was significantly less task modification and more time in deliberate practice. In phase 3, "dedication" and "collaboration," the children began to actively seek out the teacher as a resource to help them learn. Conclusions: The identification of critical teaching behaviors during the program adds support for our contention that the teacher is a critical component in helping children advance along the pathway of mastery when placed in an autonomy-supportive climate. These are allowing time for exploration and experiencing freedom, adding structure, and helping students learn to manage themselves.		[Hastie, Peter A.; Rudisill, Mary E.; Johnson, Jerraco L.] Auburn Univ, Auburn, AL 36849 USA; [Boyd, Korey] Springfield Coll, Springfield, MA USA; [Hastie, Peter A.] Auburn Univ, Sch Kinesiol, 301 Wire Rd, Auburn, AL 36849 USA								12							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000466128300001	34	Article; Article		
J	Otsuka, Mitsuo; Potthast, Wolfgang; Willwacher, Steffen; Goldmann, Jan-Peter; Kurihara, Toshiyuki; Isaka, Tadao								Validity of block start performance without arm forces or by kinematics-only methods								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				18	3			229	244		10.1080/14763141.2019.1593497			MAY 4 2019	2019	The purpose of this study was to validate the calculation of reaction time (RT) and normalised power in block starts without considering arm ground reaction forces (GRFs) or using two kinematics-only methods. The RT and normalised power in the action phase were calculated using four different methods: using GRFs of arms and legs by force plates (whole F-based method), which can be regarded as the most valid method, using GRFs of legs captured by force plates (legs F-based method), using position of the centre of mass of the entire body captured by high-speed cameras (whole P-based method), and using only a partial subset of segment position (partial P-based method). Bland-Altman plots demonstrated that the RT of the legs F-based method was not similar to that of the whole F-based method: the mean difference was 7.4 ms and the 95% limits of agreement was-45.1 to 59.8 ms, and it was the least valid method for the calculation among the four methods. In contrast, the normalised power was more valid in the legs F-based method, followed by whole and partial P-based methods. This information will help researchers and practitioners to decide upon their analysis methods when analysing block start performance.		[Otsuka, Mitsuo; Isaka, Tadao] Ritsumeikan Univ, Fac Sport & Hlth Sci, Kusatsu, Shiga, Japan; [Potthast, Wolfgang; Willwacher, Steffen; Goldmann, Jan-Peter] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Biomech & Orthopaed, Cologne, Germany; [Goldmann, Jan-Peter] German Sport Univ Cologne, German Res Ctr Elite Sport, Cologne, Germany; [Kurihara, Toshiyuki] Ritsumeikan Univ, Res Org Sci & Technol, Kusatsu, Shiga, Japan; [Otsuka, Mitsuo] Ritsumeikan Univ, Fac Sport & Hlth Sci, Kusatsu, Shiga, Japan								2							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000466074900001	42	Article; Article		
J	Critchley, Meghan L.; Davis, Daniel J.; Keener, Michaela M.; Layer, Jacob S.; Wilson, Margaret A.; Zhu, Qin; Dai, Boyi								The effects of mid-flight whole-body and trunk rotation on landing mechanics: implications for anterior cruciate ligament injuries								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				19	4			421	437		10.1080/14763141.2019.1595704			JUL 3 2020	2020	The purpose was to quantify the effects of mid-flight whole-body and trunk rotation on knee mechanics in a double-leg landing. Eighteen male and 20 female participants completed a jump-landing-jump task in five conditions: no rotation, testing leg ipsilateral or contralateral (WBRC) to the whole-body rotation direction, and testing leg ipsilateral (TRI) or contralateral to the trunk rotation direction. The WBRC and TRI conditions demonstrated decreased knee flexion and increased knee abduction angles at initial contact (2.6 > Cohen's dz > 0.3) and increased peak vertical ground reaction forces and knee adduction moments during the 100 ms after landing (1.7 > Cohen's dz > 0.3). The TRI condition also showed the greatest knee internal rotation angles at initial contact and peak knee abduction and internal rotation angles and peak knee extension moments during the 100 ms after landing (2.0 > Cohen's dz > 0.5). Whole-body rotation increased contralateral knee loading because of its primary role in decelerating medial-lateral velocities. Trunk rotation resulted in the greatest knee loading for the ipsilateral knee due to weight shifting and mechanical coupling between the trunk and lower extremities. These findings may help understand altered trunk motion in anterior cruciate ligament injuries.		[Critchley, Meghan L.; Davis, Daniel J.; Keener, Michaela M.; Layer, Jacob S.; Zhu, Qin; Dai, Boyi] Univ Wyoming, Div Kinesiol & Hlth, Laramie, WY 82071 USA; [Wilson, Margaret A.] Univ Wyoming, Dept Theatre & Dance, Laramie, WY 82071 USA; [Dai, Boyi] Univ Wyoming, Div Kinesiol & Hlth, Laramie, WY 82071 USA								27							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000465704600001	44	Article; Article		
J	Zhang, Shuqi; Li, Yumeng; Li, Li								Running ground reaction force complexity at the initial stance phase increased with ageing								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2019.1596300				2019	Running mechanics could be influenced by some degenerative musculoskeletal changes associated with ageing. However, the shoe effect on ground reaction force (GRF) amplitude and complexity of older runners is still unclear. The objective of our study was to assess the effects of age and shoe on amplitude and complexity of GRF during treadmill running. In total, 20 healthy runners were recruited. GRF data were collected for 13 younger runners and seven older runners during running on an instrumented treadmill at 3.5 m/s. Maximum vertical loading rate and GRF variables were generated. Sample entropy of GRF during the first 20% of the stance phase was calculated to assess GRF complexity. Age and shoe type did not significantly affect the maximal loading rate and GRF. Older participants exhibited higher anteroposterior and vertical GRF sample entropy compared to younger runners. In conclusion, the amplitudes of GRF were not influenced by age group, which indicated that muscle strength in the older runners tested could fulfil mechanical demand (e.g., shock absorption, force generation) during running. However, the increased GRF complexity in initial stance phase with ageing could be a result of reduced muscle contraction coordination and smoothness of force production.		[Zhang, Shuqi] Beijing Sport Univ, Coll Human Movement Sci, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Shuqi] Northern Illinois Univ, Dept Kinesiol & Phys Educ, De Kalb, IL 60115 USA; [Li, Yumeng] Texas State Univ, Dept Hlth & Human Performance, San Marcos, TX 78666 USA; [Li, Li] Georgia Southern Univ, Dept Hlth Sci & Kinesiol, Statesboro, GA USA; [Li, Yumeng] Texas State Univ, Dept Hlth & Human Performance, San Marcos, TX 78666 USA								8							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000465693900001	32	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Murtagh, Conall F.; Naughton, Robert J.; McRobert, Allistair P.; O'Boyle, Andrew; Morgans, Ryland; Drust, Barry; Erskine, Robert M.								A Coding System to Quantify Powerful Actions in Soccer Match Play: A Pilot Study								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				90	2			234	243		10.1080/02701367.2019.1576838			APR 3 2019	2019	Purpose: The powerful activity profile of elite soccer match play has not been documented appropriately to inform specific maximal power assessment and development criteria. The aims of the current study were to develop a reliable soccer-specific powerful action (SSPA) notational analysis coding system that could be used to compare frequency and durations of powerful actions during elite youth soccer match play. Methods: Sixteen elite male English Premier League (EPL) Academy players (19 +/- 1yrs) were recorded by an individual camera during 16 competitive EPL U18 and U21 games. Video footage was analyzed using performance analysis software and SSPAs were coded according to the following categories: initial acceleration, leading acceleration, sprint, unilateral jump and bilateral jump. Results: The SSPA coding system demonstrated very good inter- and intra-rater reliability (kappa coefficients 0.827). Elite youth EPL soccer players undertook significantly more initial (31 +/- 9) and leading (37 +/- 12) accelerations than sprints (8 +/- 3; p =.014, d =1.7, and p <.001, d =1.7, respectively) and jumps (6 +/- 5; p =.002, d =1.7 and p <.001, d =1.7, respectively). Players performed a significantly greater number of initial and leading accelerations with action durations below 1.5s compared to above 1.5s (p =.001, d =1.6, and p =.002, d =1.4), respectively. Conclusions: Our SSPA coding system provides a reliable observational instrument for quantifying the frequency and duration of powerful actions performed during elite soccer match play. In our sample of elite youth soccer players, horizontal accelerations of short duration (< 1.5s) from different starting speeds appear the most dominant powerful action in elite youth soccer match play.		[Murtagh, Conall F.; McRobert, Allistair P.; O'Boyle, Andrew; Drust, Barry; Erskine, Robert M.] Liverpool John Moores Univ, Liverpool, Merseyside, England; [Murtagh, Conall F.; O'Boyle, Andrew; Drust, Barry] Liverpool Football Club, Liverpool, Merseyside, England; [Naughton, Robert J.] Univ Huddersfield, Huddersfield, W Yorkshire, England; [Naughton, Robert J.] Celt Football Club, Glasgow, Lanark, Scotland; [Morgans, Ryland] Football Assoc Wales, Cardiff, S Glam, Wales; [Erskine, Robert M.] UCL, London, England; [Murtagh, Conall F.] Liverpool John Moores Univ, Sch Sport & Exercise Sci, Liverpool L3 3AF, Merseyside, England								9							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000469148100014	24	Article; Article		
J	Garcia, Juan A.; Carcedo, Rodrigo J.; Castano, Juan L.								The Influence of Feedback on Competence, Motivation, Vitality, and Performance in a Throwing Task								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				90	2			172	179		10.1080/02701367.2019.1571677			APR 3 2019	2019	Purpose: The purpose of this work is focused on the study of the effect that feedback has on competence valuation, perceived competence, autonomous motivation, vitality, and performance in a throwing task. Method: Thirty-five college students (26 men and 9 women), without previous experience in the task, participated in this study. The students were randomly assigned to three experimental conditions (positive, negative, and lack of feedback). Results: The results of this study point out that only those who received positive feedback before the handball throwing task, in contrast to those who received negative feedback or did not receive any feedback, showed increased levels of competence valuation (p <.05, Cliff's delta effect size=-.30), perceived competence (p <.001, Cliff's delta effect size=-.77), and autonomous motivation (p <.05, Cliff's delta effect size=-.48). This group also presented higher levels of perceived competence (p <.001, Cliff's delta effect size=-.84) and subjective vitality (p <.001, Cliff's delta effect size=-.80) than the group who received negative feedback after the throwing task. Those who received positive feedback also showed a higher throwing speed at the end of task than those who received negative feedback (p <0.001, Cliff's delta effect size=-.71) or than those who did not receive any feedback (p <.05, Cliff's delta effect size=-.56). Conclusions: Competence valuation, perceived competence, autonomous motivation, subjective vitality, and throwing speed were favorably influenced by positive feedback. These results have important implications for the training style applied by coaches.		[Garcia, Juan A.; Carcedo, Rodrigo J.; Castano, Juan L.] Univ Salamanca, Salamanca, Spain; [Carcedo, Rodrigo J.] Univ Salamanca, Fac Psicol, Avda Merced 109-131, Salamanca 37005, Spain								29							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000469148100008	26	Article; Article		
J	Michael, Robert Dan; Webster, Collin A.; Egan, Cate A.; Nilges, Lynda; Brian, Ali; Johnson, Robert; Carson, Russ L.								Facilitators and Barriers to Movement Integration in Elementary Classrooms: A Systematic Review								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				90	2			151	162		10.1080/02701367.2019.1571675			APR 3 2019	2019	Purpose: A systematic review was conducted to identify facilitators and barriers to movement integration (MI) in elementary school classrooms. Method: Online databases (Educational Resources Information Center, Google Scholar, PsycINFO, and PubMed) served as data sources for the study. Following the PRISMA guidelines, relevant published research on MI was identified and screened for inclusion in a qualitative synthesis. Content analysis of the included articles (N =28) was used to identify themes of MI facilitators and barriers. Facilitators and barriers were then categorized using a social-ecological framework. Results: A total of 12 themes of MI facilitators and barriers were identified and categorized into two social-ecological levels: institutional factors (e.g., administrative support, resources) and intrapersonal factors (e.g., teacher confidence, ease of implementation). Conclusion: This review can inform research and practice aimed at supporting the implementation of MI in elementary classrooms.		[Michael, Robert Dan] Longwood Univ, Farmville, VA USA; [Webster, Collin A.; Nilges, Lynda; Brian, Ali; Johnson, Robert] Univ South Carolina, Columbia, SC 29208 USA; [Egan, Cate A.] Univ Idaho, Moscow, ID 83843 USA; [Carson, Russ L.] Univ Northern Colorado, Greeley, CO 80639 USA; [Webster, Collin A.] Univ South Carolina, Coll Educ, 210 Wardlaw,820 Main St, Columbia, SC 29208 USA								82							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000469148100006	71	Article; Article		
J	Gillen, Zachary M.; Shoemaker, Marni E.; McKay, Brianna D.; Cramer, Joel T.								Performance Differences between National Football League and High School American Football Combine Participants								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				90	2			227	233		10.1080/02701367.2019.1571679			APR 3 2019	2019	Purpose: The purpose of this study was to determine magnitudes of differences for anthropometric and athletic performance scores between high school and elite college-level American football players. Method: Participants included high school-age (n =3,666) athletes who participated in American football combines, as well as elite college-level (n =5,537) athletes who participated in the National Football League (NFL) scouting combine. Combine data included position; height; weight; 10-, 20-, and 40-yard dash; pro-agility (PA); L-cone drill (LC); vertical jump (VJ); and broad jump (BJ). Athletes were separated into their respective position group, defensive back (DB), wide receiver (WR), linebacker (LB), quarterback (QB), running back (RB), tight end (TE), defensive line (DL), and offensive line (OL) for analysis of performance differences. Percent differences for each dependent variable were calculated to quantify magnitudes of differences. Results: NFL combine participants scored 3% to 25% better on all measurements, with the largest differences between weight and VJ (14%-25%). Conclusion: The largest measurement-specific differences between high school-age and elite college-level American football players were body size and power. Although it may seem intuitive that elite college-level players would perform better, these data provide a unique perspective to high school players, parents, and coaches, giving new information to use when designing measurement-specific athletic development programs. Thus, strength and conditioning professionals may benefit from emphasizing increases in muscle mass and power output in strength and conditioning programs.		[Gillen, Zachary M.; Shoemaker, Marni E.; McKay, Brianna D.; Cramer, Joel T.] Univ Nebraska, Lincoln, NE USA; [Cramer, Joel T.] Univ Nebraska, Dept Nutr & Hlth Sci, 211 Ruth Leverton Hall, Lincoln, NE 68583 USA								9							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000469148100013	23	Article; Article		
J	Timmerman, Ewout A.; Savelsbergh, Geert J. P.; Farrow, Damian								Creating Appropriate Training Environments to Improve Technical, Decision-Making, and Physical Skills in Field Hockey								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				90	2			180	189		10.1080/02701367.2019.1571678			APR 3 2019	2019	Purpose: The purpose of this study was to determine the influence of eight different small-sided games (SSG) on physical, technical, and decision-making demands of training environments in U14 field hockey. Methods: A total of 13 participants played eight different training games consisting of two 7.5-minute halves, where number of players (three per side or six per side) and/or field characteristics (normal game, cage hockey game, possession game, and two-goals game) was manipulated. Match performance was determined by using notational analysis, and physical demands were determined by using GPS analyses. Results: Findings revealed that lowering the number of players increased the number of technical actions performed per player and the physical demands of the SSG. Findings of the field characteristics manipulation revealed that the possession game forced players to control the ball more as a team, which resulted in more passes (+4.82 passes) and fewer dribbles (-1.48 dribbles) and tackles (-0.69 tackles) compared to the normal game. The two-goals game led to players scoring more goals (+0.61 goals) compared to the normal game, while the cage hockey game increased passing (+1.46 passes) and physical demands (+7.32meters per minute) compared to the normal game. Conclusion: It can be concluded from these findings that coaches and trainers are able to promote a change in playing behavior, and in turn the development of skills, by manipulating specific constraints of the training environment.		[Timmerman, Ewout A.; Farrow, Damian] Victoria Univ, Melbourne, Vic 8001, Australia; [Timmerman, Ewout A.] Hockey Australia, East Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Savelsbergh, Geert J. P.] Vrije Univ Amsterdam, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Savelsbergh, Geert J. P.] Univ Profess Educ, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Farrow, Damian] Australian Inst Sport, Bruce, Australia; [Timmerman, Ewout A.] Victoria Univ, Coll Sport & Exercise Sci, Room P141,Footscray Pk, Melbourne, Vic 8001, Australia								29							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000469148100009	32	Article; Article		
J	Fares, Mohamad Y.; Fares, Jawad; Fares, Youssef; Abboud, Joseph A.								Musculoskeletal and head injuries in the Ultimate Fighting Championship (UFC)								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				47	2			205	211		10.1080/00913847.2018.1546108			APR 3 2019	2019	Objectives: Mixed martial arts (MMA) has witnessed a surge in popularity worldwide. This study explores the musculoskeletal and head injuries sustained in the professional fights of the Ultimate Fighting Championship (UFC), and establishes associations between injury profiles and impactful contributory factors. Methods: The Nevada State Athletic Commission database was screened for ringside physician reports of UFC fights between January 2016 and July 2018. Information on the fighter's gender, weight, injury, way of finish, and match result were collected. Injury rates were calculated and statistical analyses were conducted to determine significant associations among variables. P-values <0.05 were considered significant (95% CI). Results: A total of 291 injuries were recorded in 285 fights from nine weight divisions. The overall injury rate was 51 per 100 athletic exposures (AE). Males predominantly partook in 249 matches (87%) and had higher injury rates (54 injuries per 100 AE) than females (30 injuries per 100 AE). Decision was the most common way a match ended. Knockouts (KOs) were significantly higher in males (36%) than in females (14%, P = 0.0007). Submissions were significantly higher in females (36%) than in males (16%, P = 0.001). Head injuries (67%) were the most common injuries reported with a rate of 34 per 100 AE. Upper limb injuries were significantly higher in females (40%) than in males (14%, P = 0.0003). Lower limb injuries were significantly higher in males (19%) than in females (5%, P = 0.01). Head injuries were significantly associated with KOs (P < 0.0001). Upper limb injuries (P = 0.032) and lower limb injuries (P = 0.034) were significantly associated with matches that ended with Decision. Trend-line analyses showed that as weight division increases, overall injury rates, head injuries, lower limb injuries, and KOs' frequency increase, whereas upper limb injuries, Submission frequency, and Decision frequency decrease. Conclusion: MMA has a high injury rate. Gender, way of finish, and weight play an important role in predicting fight outcomes and injury profiles. Injury prevention policies must be entertained to limit injury risk in MMA.		[Fares, Mohamad Y.; Abboud, Joseph A.] Thomas Jefferson Univ Hosp, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Rothman Inst, Philadelphia, PA 19107 USA; [Fares, Mohamad Y.] Amer Univ Beirut, Fac Med, Beirut, Lebanon; [Fares, Mohamad Y.; Fares, Youssef] Lebanese Univ, Fac Med, Neurosci Res Ctr, Beirut, Lebanon; [Fares, Jawad] Northwestern Univ, Dept Neurol Surg, Feinberg Sch Med, Chicago, IL 60611 USA; [Fares, Jawad] Northwestern Univ, Dept Neurol Surg, Feinberg Sch Med, Chicago, IL 60611 USA								35							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000466088200010	43	Article; Article		
J	Matsushita, Takehiko; Araki, Daisuke; Matsumoto, Tomoyuki; Niikura, Takahiro; Kuroda, Ryosuke								Changes in knee extensor strengths before and after medial patellofemoral ligament reconstruction								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				47	2			220	226		10.1080/00913847.2018.1547086			APR 3 2019	2019	Objective: Quadriceps dysfunction has been suggested as a complication after medial patellofemoral ligament (MPFL) reconstruction. The purpose of this study was to investigate changes in knee extensor strength before and after MPFL reconstruction. Methods: Twenty patients who underwent MPFL reconstruction for unilateral recurrent patellar dislocation (18 females and 2 males; mean age 20.8 +/- 7.6 years) were examined. The peak isometric torque at 60 degrees and 90 degrees of knee flexion and isokinetic knee extensor strength at speeds of 60 degrees/s and 90 degrees/s in operated and non-operated legs were measured using a dynamometer preoperatively and 6 months, 1 year, and 2 years postoperatively. The following parameters were evaluated: (1) body weight-adjusted muscle strength, (2) improvement index (post-/preoperative value x 100) (%), and (3) extensor strength ratio (operated/non-operated value x 100) (%). Results: The mean knee extensor strength in both operated and non-operated legs significantly increased 2 years after surgery compared with that before surgery. At 2 years postoperatively, the improvement indexes of the isometric knee extensor strength at 60 degrees and 90 degrees and of the isokinetic knee extensor strength at 60 degrees/s and 90 degrees/s were 237%, 192%, 318%, and 186%, respectively, in the operated legs and 144%, 124%, 140%, and 140%, respectively, in the non-operated legs. At 2 years postoperatively, the mean isometric knee extensor strength ratios at 60 degrees and 90 degrees and the isokinetic knee extensor strength ratios at 60 degrees/s and 180 degrees/s were 81%, 84%, 81%, and 82%, respectively. Conclusions: Knee extensor strength was improved in most patients after MPFL reconstruction, at least compared with that before surgery, although an approximately 20% deficit against the non-operated legs remained even 2 years after surgery.		[Matsushita, Takehiko; Araki, Daisuke; Matsumoto, Tomoyuki; Niikura, Takahiro; Kuroda, Ryosuke] Kobe Univ, Grad Sch Med, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Kobe, Hyogo, Japan; [Matsushita, Takehiko] Kobe Univ, Grad Sch Med, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Chuo Ku, 7-1 Kusunoki Cho, Kobe, Hyogo 6500017, Japan								13							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000466088200012	35	Article; Article		
J	Roldan-Jimenez, Cristina; Cuesta-Vargas, Antonio, I; Bennett, Paul								Assessing trunk flexo-extension during sit-to-stand test variant in male and female healthy subjects through inertial sensors								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				47	2			152	157		10.1080/00913847.2018.1538542			APR 3 2019	2019	Objective: The objective of the present study was to measure trunk flexo-extension during different Sit-To-Stand (STS) tasks and to analyze differences in those variables when STS repetitions are increased, by using an inertial sensor. Methods: In this cross-sectional study trunk flexo-extension was obtained through inertial measurements using an inertial sensor placed on the flat part of the sternum with the Y transversally oriented and attached using double-sided adhesive tape. Trunk flexo-extension was expressed along the Y axis (pitch angle) in a sagittal plane, representing antero-posterior motion (degrees, degrees). Descriptive anthropometric independent variables were also recorded. Subject had to sit and rise from a 43 cm high chair at a speed of 40 bpm in 5, 10 and 15 repetitions of STS variants. Results: Men showed higher mean mobility (between 41.51 degrees and 43.23 degrees) than women (between 32.16 degrees and 33.31 degrees) in all STS test, although significant was only found for 10-STS and 15-STS (<0.05). Male gender showed stronger Pearson correlation between each test than female gender. In men, correlations were highly significant in all tests (r between 0.891 and 0.939). However, in the case of women, significance varied between each test comparison (r between 0.474 and 0.745). There were no significant differences observed between trunk flexo-extension and STS variants (p = 0.908; F = 0.097). Conclusion: Men showed a wider range of trunk motion and a more consistent pattern than women through STS variants. However, no significant differences were found in mobility between each test. The results provided in this study should be taken into account when performing STS in this population and should be applied only to a healthy population.		[Roldan-Jimenez, Cristina; Cuesta-Vargas, Antonio, I] Univ Malaga, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Physiotherapy, Av Arquitecto Penalosa S-N,Teatinos Campus Expans, Malaga 29009, Spain; [Roldan-Jimenez, Cristina; Cuesta-Vargas, Antonio, I] Inst Invest Biomed Malaga IBIMA, Av Arquitecto Penalosa S-N,Teatinos Campus Expans, Malaga 29009, Spain; [Cuesta-Vargas, Antonio, I; Bennett, Paul] Queensland Univ Technol, Fac Hlth Sci, Sch Clin Sci, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [Cuesta-Vargas, Antonio, I] Univ Malaga, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Physiotherapy, Av Arquitecto Penalosa S-N,Teatinos Campus Expans, Malaga 29009, Spain; [Cuesta-Vargas, Antonio, I] Inst Invest Biomed Malaga IBIMA, Av Arquitecto Penalosa S-N,Teatinos Campus Expans, Malaga 29009, Spain								7							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000466088200003	35	Article; Article		
J	DeFroda, Steven F.; Bokshan, Steven L.; Worobey, Samatha; Ready, Lauren; Daniels, Alan H.; Owens, Brett D.								Oral contraceptives provide protection against anterior cruciate ligament tears: a national database study of 165,748 female patients								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				47	4			416	420		10.1080/00913847.2019.1600334			OCT 2 2019	2019	Objective: Anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) tears are more prevalent in females than males. One of the factors responsible for this may be the variation in levels of estrogen and progesterone. The purpose of this study was to determine the potentially protective effects of oral contraceptive pills (OCPs) on ACL tears. Methods: The PearlDiver database (www.pearldiverinc.com, Fort Wayne, IN) was queried for all OCP users amongst females aged 15-49. Female experiencing an ACL tear and undergoing surgery (CPT 29,888) were compared to a control group of females undergoing surgery for an ACL tear, but not on OCPs. Chi-squared testing was used to assess for significant differences in the rate of ACL reconstruction for the OCP and non-OCP users, according to age groups broken down into age intervals of 5 years. Results: There were a total 82,874 patients in both the OCP and non-OCP groups. There was a total of 569 (0.69%) ACL reconstructions in the non-OCP group and 465 (0.56%) in the OCP group (p < 0.001). In the non-OCP group, patients aged 15-19 accounted for 29.35% of all ACL reconstructions, whereas, in the OCP group, this same age group only accounted for 13.33%. Among all age groups, the odds ratios for experiencing an ACL reconstruction while on OCP was 0.82 (chi(2) = 0.001, 95% CI 0.72-0.92) compared to not using OCP. This protective effect was driven primarily by the 15-19 age group (odds ratio 0.37 (chi(2) < 0.001, 95% CI 0.27-0.50)). The number need to treat for OCP usage in the 15-19 age group was six patients. Conclusions: OCPs have a protective effect on ACL tear, especially in the 15-19 age group, which exhibited a 63% reduction in the rate of tear. Consideration should be given to prescribing OCPs to younger athletes, after careful assessment of the risks of these commonly prescribed medications.		[DeFroda, Steven F.; Bokshan, Steven L.; Worobey, Samatha; Ready, Lauren; Daniels, Alan H.; Owens, Brett D.] Brown Univ, Warren Alpert Sch Med, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Providence, RI 02903 USA; [DeFroda, Steven F.] Brown Univ, Alpert Med Sch, Dept Orthopaed, 593 Eddy St, Providence, RI 02903 USA								28							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000465717800001	19	Article; Article		
J	Roetert, E. Paul; Ortega, Catherine								Physical Literacy for the Older Adult								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				41	2			89	99		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000430			APR 2019	2019	THIS ARTICLE INTRODUCES THE CONSTRUCT OF PHYSICAL LITERACY PARTICULARLY AS IT RELATES TO THE OLDER ADULT. MOST ARTICLES PERTAINING TO PHYSICAL LITERACY IN THE SCIENTIFIC LITERATURE HAVE SHARED INFORMATION RELATIVE TO THE SECTORS OF YOUTH SPORTS AND CHILDHOOD EDUCATION. HOWEVER, THE DEFINITION OF PHYSICAL LITERACY HIGHLIGHTS THE IMPORTANCE OF TAKING RESPONSIBILITY FOR ENGAGEMENT IN PHYSICAL ACTIVITIES FOR THE FULL LIFE SPAN. THEREFORE, THE FOCUS OF THIS ARTICLE IS ON THE OLDER ADULT, AN OFTEN OVERLOOKED AUDIENCE, AND ADDRESSES SPECIFIC SAMPLE EXERCISES THAT CAN HELP START THAT AUDIENCE ON THE PATH OF PHYSICAL LITERACY. GUIDELINES FOR THE STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING PRACTITIONER ARE PROVIDED.		[Roetert, E. Paul] Univ Florida, Coll Hlth & Human Performance, Gainesville, FL 32611 USA; [Ortega, Catherine] UT Hlth Sci Ctr San Antonio, Dept Phys Therapy, San Antonio, TX USA; [Roetert, E. Paul] Univ Florida, Coll Hlth & Human Performance, Gainesville, FL 32611 USA								10							Sport Sciences	WOS:000480694300012	60	Article; Article		
J	Hines, Jarrod C.; Wendorf, Whitney L.; Hennen, Alexes N.; Hauser, Kelsey L.; Mitchell, Madeline M.; Homa, Jillian M.								How do lean and non-lean female collegiate athletes view the eating disorder education they receive from their coaches?								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				14	2			169	178		10.1177/1747954118825060			APR 2019	2019	Extant research indicates that collegiate coaches often lack the knowledge or confidence required to provide their student-athletes with effective educational experiences related to eating disorders. The current study investigates the prevalence and quality of such experiences from the perspective of lean and non-lean female student-athletes at a National Collegiate Athletic Association Division III institution. Participants were asked closed- and open-ended questions in an anonymous online survey. Lean and non-lean participants reported similar rates of education despite differential risk for eating disorders. Approximately 70% of student-athletes expressed a desire for a more comprehensive and long-term program of study. Participants' confidence in identifying an eating disorder in a peer did not differ based on type of sport or education status, but those who were educated identified more appropriate potential symptoms than did those who were uneducated. This indicates some degree of educational effectiveness. However, education status and type of sport had no bearing on the likelihood of a participant speaking with their coach about their own or a peer's potential disorder. Educational attempts were therefore insufficient to help student-athletes overcome the shame and consequential secrecy associated with eating disorders. Our results underscore the need for effective education for at-risk student-athletes while also clarifying that both lean and non-lean student-athletes often want to receive more comprehensive education about eating disorders. Current findings highlight specific areas of student-athlete interest about the topic and could be used to help coaches revise their educational efforts to enhance engagement and long-term retention of information.		[Hines, Jarrod C.; Hennen, Alexes N.; Hauser, Kelsey L.; Mitchell, Madeline M.] Univ Wisconsin, Dept Psychol, Hibbard Humanities Hall 277,124 Garfield Ave, Eau Claire, WI 54701 USA; [Wendorf, Whitney L.; Homa, Jillian M.] Univ Wisconsin, Dept Kinesiol, Eau Claire, WI 54701 USA; [Hines, Jarrod C.] Univ Wisconsin, Dept Psychol, Hibbard Humanities Hall 277,124 Garfield Ave, Eau Claire, WI 54701 USA								8							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000463226200006	33	Article; Article		
J	Hutchinson, Sarah; Ellison, Paul; Levy, Andrew; Marchant, David								Knowledge and attitudes towards concussion in UK-based male ice hockey players: A need for attitude change?								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				14	2			153	161		10.1177/1747954119826515			APR 2019	2019	Objective Concussion is a common injury in ice hockey, and previous research suggests some misconceptions and unsafe attitudes amongst players. The purpose of this study was to assess sport concussion knowledge, attitudes and the effect of sport concussion history in UK-based male ice hockey players across three levels of competition: professional, semi-professional and amateur. Methods Sixty-one participants across a number of UK ice hockey teams completed the Rosenbaum Concussion Knowledge and Attitudes Survey and reviewed a series of statements to assess knowledge (concussion knowledge index), attitudes (concussion attitude index) and misconceptions of concussion. Results Level of competition and concussion history had no significant effect on concussion knowledge index or concussion attitude index. A positive significant relationship exists between playing experience and concussion knowledge index and concussion attitude index. Statements identified common misconceptions and areas of accurate knowledge regarding concussion symptoms suggesting that male ice hockey players have a higher level knowledge compared to a sample of the UK general public. Playing experience was associated with increased knowledge and increasingly safe attitudes towards concussion. Conclusion Despite knowledge relating to loss of consciousness and correct management of symptoms being generally accurate, there are worryingly unsafe attitudes regarding aspects of concussion. Such attitudes may well pose significant threats to players' safety and long-term health.		[Hutchinson, Sarah; Levy, Andrew] Edge Hill Univ, Dept Psychol, Ormskirk, England; [Ellison, Paul; Marchant, David] Edge Hill Univ, Dept Sport & PA, Ormskirk, England; [Ellison, Paul] Edge Hill Univ, St Helens Rd, Ormskirk L39 4QP, England								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000463226200004	22	Article; Article		
J	Robinson, G. Matthew; Magnusen, Mar; Kim, Jun W.								The socially effective leader: Exploring the relationship between athletic director political skill and coach commitment and job satisfaction								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				14	2			197	204		10.1177/1747954119834118			APR 2019	2019	Previous sport management research has demonstrated the positive relationship between political skill and personal career outcomes, but research addressing the question of how leader social effectiveness (i.e. political skill) influences the commitment and satisfaction of subordinates is lacking. This study sought to determine if leader (athletic director) political skill influences subordinate (head coach) evaluations of leader effectiveness, in turn influencing subordinate job satisfaction and commitment. Surveys were completed by interscholastic athletic directors (n = 250) and representative subsets of head coaches (n = 806) in the United States. Structural equation modeling was used to analyze the data. Political skill was shown to have a positive impact on evaluations of leader effectiveness. Leader effectiveness also acts as a mediator between political skill and employee job satisfaction and affective organizational commitment. Thus, political skill appears to be an important contributor to subordinate perceptions of leadership effectiveness, job satisfaction, and organizational commitment.		[Robinson, G. Matthew] Schreiner Univ, Dept Exercise Sci & Sport Management, Kerrville, TX 78028 USA; [Magnusen, Mar] Baylor Univ, Dept Educ Leadership, Waco, TX 76798 USA; [Kim, Jun W.] Arcadia Univ, Sch Global Business, Glenside, PA USA; [Robinson, G. Matthew] Schreiner Univ, Dept Exercise Sci & Sport Management, Kerrville, TX 78028 USA								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000463226200009	29	Article; Article		
J	Fisher, Leslee A.; Larsen, Leslie K.; Bejar, Matthew P.; Shigeno, Terilyn C.								A heuristic for the relationship between caring coaching and elite athlete performance								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				14	2			126	137		10.1177/1747954119827192			APR 2019	2019	While the topic of caring coaching and its relationship to performance has been explored by researchers mainly in the UK, it has been neglected in the US with the exception of three studies by Fisher and colleagues. The core problem is a lack of understanding regarding the construct of care and whether coaches can care about athletes in pressure-filled, high-stakes, win-at-all-cost sport contexts. Thus, in this paper, we draw upon the ethic of care first proposed by Gilligan and later developed by Noddings and on results from the aforementioned studies by Fisher and colleagues as well as insights from scholarship in the UK to propose a heuristic of the potential relationship between caring coaching and elite athlete performance. Such a heuristic could be used in future coach development programs.		[Fisher, Leslee A.] Univ Tennessee, 336 HPER Bldg, Knoxville, TN 37996 USA; [Larsen, Leslie K.] Calif State Univ Sacramento, Sacramento, CA 95819 USA; [Bejar, Matthew P.] Mt Mercy Univ, Cedar Rapids, IA USA; [Shigeno, Terilyn C.] Adler Univ, Chicago, IL USA; [Fisher, Leslee A.] Univ Tennessee, 336 HPER Bldg, Knoxville, TN 37996 USA								28							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000463226200002	61	Article; Article		
J	Wallrafen, Tim; Pawlowski, Tim; Deutscher, Christian								Substitution in Sports: The Case of Lower Division Football Attendance								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				20	3			319	343		10.1177/1527002518762506			APR 2019	2019	Commercialization processes in European football are facilitated by reducing concurrent games within the leagues and reallocating kickoff times to prime time slots abroad. Consequently, the number of top division games that temporally overlap with lower division games has increased significantly during recent years. By using attendance data of around 6,000 games in Germany's fourth division, this article is the first to empirically test whether such overlaps have any adverse demand effects for lower division games. Fixed effects panel regressions reveal that overlapping games indeed reduce the demand for lower division games, suggesting some negative spillovers of commercialization processes in football.		[Wallrafen, Tim; Pawlowski, Tim] Univ Tubingen, Inst Sports Sci, Fac Econ & Social Sci, Wilhelmstr 124, D-72074 Tubingen, Germany; [Deutscher, Christian] Bielefeld Univ, Fac Psychol & Sports Sci, Bielefeld, Germany; [Wallrafen, Tim] Univ Tubingen, Inst Sports Sci, Fac Econ & Social Sci, Wilhelmstr 124, D-72074 Tubingen, Germany								25							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000460281800001	49	Article; Article		
J	Lee, Dongryul; Song, Joon								Optimal Team Contests to Induce More Efforts								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				20	3			448	476		10.1177/1527002518771443			APR 2019	2019	We show that, if the team sports designer puts more weight on the performance of high-ability members (e.g., star players) than on low-ability members, the designer encourages the low-ability member to free ride on the high-ability members so that the high-ability members exert even greater efforts. Thus, the designer's choice approximates the best shot team contest. With more weight on the low-ability member's performance, the choice approximates the weakest link team contest to undermine the free riding. The approximations work better with more convex effort cost function and/or smaller heterogeneity of group members.		[Lee, Dongryul] Sungshin Womens Univ, Dept Econ, Seoul, South Korea; [Song, Joon] Sungkyunkwan Univ, 25-2 Sungkyunkwan Ro, Seoul 110745, South Korea; [Song, Joon] Sungkyunkwan Univ, 25-2 Sungkyunkwan Ro, Seoul 110745, South Korea								4							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000460281800007	48	Article; Article		
J	Gmeiner, Michael William								History-Dependent Mixed Strategies: Evidence From Major League Baseball								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				20	3			371	398		10.1177/1527002518762554			APR 2019	2019	This article analyzes to what extent baseball players adjust mixed strategies depending on the history by which the batting count is realized, then tests if these adjustments are aligned with best-response play. Two situations are examined: (1) pitches preceded by a borderline ball or strike at which the batter did not swing and (2) batters taking a strike as opposed to swinging and missing. Adjustments in batter and pitcher strategy on the following pitch are identified as statistically significant, however, of small magnitude. Analysis considers the effects of these adjustments on the expected runs scored during the plate appearance.		[Gmeiner, Michael William] Northwestern Univ, 302 Donald P Jacobs Ctr,2001 Sheridan Rd, Evanston, IL 60208 USA; [Gmeiner, Michael William] Northwestern Univ, 302 Donald P Jacobs Ctr,2001 Sheridan Rd, Evanston, IL 60208 USA								0							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000460281800003	16	Article; Article		
J	Copus, Ryan; Laqueur, Hannah								Entertainment as Crime Prevention: Evidence From Chicago Sports Games								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				20	3			344	370		10.1177/1527002518762551			APR 2019	2019	The concern that mass media may be responsible for aggressive and criminal behavior is widespread. Comparatively little consideration has been given to its diversionary function. We test for the effect of television entertainment on crime by leveraging the randomness inherent in the scheduling of sporting events. We compare Chicago crime reports by the half hour when Chicago's sports teams are playing to reports at the same time, day, and month when the teams are not playing. We conduct the same analysis for the Super Bowl, National Basketball Association Finals, and Major League Baseball World Series. We find consistent decreases in crime during games. Short-term crime displacement is minimal or nonexistent.		[Copus, Ryan] Univ Calif Davis, Doctoral Program Jurisprudence & Social Policy, Berkley Law, Davis, CA 94703 USA; [Laqueur, Hannah] Univ Calif Davis, Dept Emergency Med, Davis, CA 95616 USA; [Copus, Ryan] Univ Calif Davis, Doctoral Program Jurisprudence & Social Policy, Berkley Law, Davis, CA 94703 USA								20							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000460281800002	30	Article; Article		
J	Sarro, Karine Jacon; Brioschi, Francisco Rodrigues; Barbosa de Lira, Claudio Andre; Andrade, Marilia dos Santos; Vancini, Rodrigo Luiz								Frequency and associated factors of poor knee alignment in young Brazilian volleyball players								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				47	3			353	356		10.1080/00913847.2019.1590084			JUL 3 2019	2019	Objectives: Poor knee alignment during the deceleration phase of closed kinetic chain movements, such as landings, is a relevant risk factor for injuries in sports. This study assessed the knee alignment and possible associated factors in young Brazilian volleyball athletes Methods: One hundred and seventeen athletes of both genders (9-19 years old) were assessed during a drop jump for the observation of knee alignment. Chi-square test was used to describe the association between poor knee alignment and: gender, age category (<= 14 years and >= 15 years), sports experience, participation in competitions, the presence of knee pain during training, and history of lower limb injury Results: Seventy percent of athletes presented poor knee alignment, which was slightly associated with a sports experience lower than one year. Conclusion: Thus, considering the high number of volleyball practitioners and its strong presence in physical education classes, preventive measures should be adopted for young volleyball athletes of both genders, especially in the sports initiation phase.		[Sarro, Karine Jacon] Univ Estadual Campinas, Fac Educ Fis, Av Erico Verissimo 701,Cidade Univ Zeferino Vaz, BR-13083851 Campinas, SP, Brazil; [Brioschi, Francisco Rodrigues; Barbosa de Lira, Claudio Andre; Vancini, Rodrigo Luiz] Univ Fed Espirito Santo, Ctr Educ Fis & Desportos, Vitoria, ES, Brazil; [Barbosa de Lira, Claudio Andre] Univ Fed Goias, Fac Educ Fis & Danca, Goiania, Go, Brazil; [Andrade, Marilia dos Santos] Univ Fed Sao Paulo, Dept Fisiol, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Sarro, Karine Jacon] Univ Estadual Campinas, Fac Educ Fis, Av Erico Verissimo 701,Cidade Univ Zeferino Vaz, BR-13083851 Campinas, SP, Brazil								6							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000465714200001	21	Article; Article		
J	Julio, Ursula F.; Panissa, Valeria L. G.; Cury, Rubiana L.; Agostinho, Marcus F.; Esteves, Joao V. D. C.; Franchini, Emerson								Energy System Contributions in Upper and Lower Body Wingate Tests in Highly Trained Athletes								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				90	2			244	250		10.1080/02701367.2019.1576839			APR 3 2019	2019	Purpose: This study compared the energy system contributions and relationship between mechanical and energy system variables in upper and lower body Wingate tests (WAnT) in judo athletes. Method: Eleven male judo athletes (18 +/- 1 years, 174.3 +/- 5.3 cm, 72.6 +/- 9.9 kg, 11.8 +/- 1.7% body fat) attended two laboratory sessions to perform two WAnT (upper and lower body) and two incremental tests (upper and lower body). The energy contributions of the oxidative, glycolytic, and phosphagen (ATP-PCr) systems were estimated based on oxygen consumption (over dot O-2) during WAnT, delta of lactate, and the fast phase of excess over dot O-2, respectively. Results: The upper and lower body presented similar results of oxidative (21 +/- 4% vs 23 +/- 3%) and ATP-PCr system contributions (29 +/- 6% vs 32 +/- 5%). The glycolytic system contribution (50 +/- 5% vs 45 +/- 4%) was higher in the upper body. The variance of mechanical variables in upper body was explained by glycolytic (R-2 = 0.49-0.62) and oxidative systems (R-2 = 0.44-0.49), whereas the variance of mechanical variables in lower body was explained by ATP-PCr (R-2 = 0.41-0.55) and glycolytic systems (R-2 = 0.62-0.94). Conclusions: During WAnT, the glycolytic system presented the major energy contribution, being higher in the upper body. Moreover, mechanical and energy system variables presented a distinct relationship when comparing upper and lower body WAnT.		[Julio, Ursula F.; Panissa, Valeria L. G.; Cury, Rubiana L.; Agostinho, Marcus F.; Esteves, Joao V. D. C.; Franchini, Emerson] Univ Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Julio, Ursula F.] Univ Sao Paulo, Sch Phys Educ & Sport, Ave Prof Mello Morais 65, BR-05508030 Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil								24							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000465796300001	20	Article; Article		
J	Marttinen, Risto; Daum, David; Fredrick, Ray N., III; Santiago, Joshua; Silverman, Stephen								Students' Perceptions of Technology Integration During the FIT Unit								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				90	2			206	216		10.1080/02701367.2019.1578328			APR 3 2019	2019	Purpose: This study sought to explore students' experiences of the Fitness Integrated with Technology (F.I.T.) unit and of their perceptions of using technology in physical education. Method: This manuscript is part of a larger mixed-methods study that measured student attitude and physical activity (PA) levels of 221 students in sixth, seventh, and eighth grades. Selected students (N = 13; seven girls) were observed and then interviewed after the unit through semistructured interviews. Students were identified based on their PA levels and attitude scores from a baseline measurement. The unit was designed to deliver fitness-based knowledge and used accelerometers as a tool to measure and teach students about PA. Results: Three themes emerged from the data analysis: (a) technology and problems implementing it, (b) homework in PE, and (c) potential motivational effects of technology. The lack of access to technology at home and the design and utility of the accelerometers were perceived barriers. Additionally, homework was not well received. The accelerometer seemed to have a motivational effect on increasing students' PA levels but wore off during the unit. Conclusions: Results demonstrate that the use of technology for some students was a motivating factor to increase PA, and the use of accelerometers was a welcomed addition for students. Some students, however, raised concerns with the integration of technology such as the bulkiness of the accelerometer, not being able to wear it at sporting events, a novelty effect, and lack of access to technology at home that limited their interaction with their accelerometer data.		[Marttinen, Risto] George Mason Univ, Fairfax, VA 22030 USA; [Daum, David] San Jose State Univ, San Jose, CA 95192 USA; [Fredrick, Ray N., III] CUNY, New York, NY 10021 USA; [Santiago, Joshua] Calif State Univ Fullerton, Fullerton, CA 92634 USA; [Silverman, Stephen] Columbia Univ, New York, NY 10027 USA; [Marttinen, Risto] George Mason Univ Sci & Technol Campus, Coll Educ & Human Dev, Bull Run Hall 208A,10890 George Mason Circle, Manassas, VA 20110 USA								13							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000465794700001	27	Article; Article		
J	Han, Ki Hoon; Como, Christopher; Kim, Jemin; Lee, Sangwoo; Kim, Jaewoong; Kim, Dae Kyoo; Kwon, Young-Hoo								Effects of the golfer-ground interaction on clubhead speed in skilled male golfers								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				18	2			115	134		10.1080/14763141.2019.1586983			MAR 4 2019	2019	The purposes of this study were to characterise the golfer-ground interactions during the swing and to identify meaningful associations between the golfer-ground interaction force/moment parameters and the maximum clubhead speed in 63 highly skilled male golfers (handicap <= 3). Golfers performed shots in 3 club conditions (driver, 5-iron and pitching wedge) which were captured by an optical motion capture system and 2 force plates. In addition to the ground reaction forces (GRFs), 3 different golfer-ground interaction moments (GRF moments, pivoting moments and foot contact moments) were computed. The GRF moment about the forward/backward (F/B) axis and the pivoting moment about the vertical axis were identified as the primary moments. Significant (p < 0.05) correlations of peak force parameters (all components in the lead foot and F/B component in the trail foot) and peak moment parameters (lead-foot GRF moment and trail-foot pivoting moment) to clubhead speed were found. The lead-foot was responsible for generating the GRF moment, while the trail foot contributed to the pivoting moment more. The instant the lead arm becomes parallel to the ground was identified as the point of maximum angular effort, and the loading onto the lead-foot near this point was critical in generating both peak moments.		[Han, Ki Hoon; Como, Christopher; Kim, Jemin; Lee, Sangwoo; Kim, Jaewoong; Kim, Dae Kyoo; Kwon, Young-Hoo] Texas Womans Univ, Biomech Lab, Denton, TX 76204 USA; [Kwon, Young-Hoo] Texas Womans Univ, Biomech Lab, Denton, TX 76204 USA								34							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000466583100001	20	Article; Article		
J	Swaren, Mikael; Eriksson, Anders								Power and pacing calculations based on real-time locating data from a cross-country skiing sprint race								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				18	2			190	201		10.1080/14763141.2017.1391323			MAR 4 2019	2019	Pacing strategies in cross-country skiing have been investigated in several studies. However, none of the previous studies have been verified by collected skiing data giving the skiing velocities along a measured track. These can be used to calculate the propulsive power output. Collected real-time positioning data from a cross-country sprint skiing race were used to estimate the propulsive power by applying a power balance model. Analyses were made for the time-trial and the final for one female and one male skier. The average propulsive power over the whole race times were 311 and 296 W during the time trial and 400 and 386 W during the final, for the female and male skier, respectively. Compared to the average propulsive power over the whole race, the average active propulsive phases were calculated as 33 and 44% higher in the time trials and 36 and 37% higher in the finals for the female and male, respectively. The current study presents a novel approach to use real-time positioning data to estimate continuous propulsive power during cross-country sprint skiing, enabling in-depth analyses of power output and pacing strategies.		[Swaren, Mikael; Eriksson, Anders] Royal Inst Technol, Dept Mech, Stockholm, Sweden; [Swaren, Mikael] Royal Inst Technol, Dept Mech, Stockholm, Sweden								18							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000466583100006	25	Article; Article		
J	Botonis, Petros G.; Toubekis, Argyris G.; Platanou, Theodoros, I								Training Loads, Wellness And Performance Before and During Tapering for a Water-Polo Tournament								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				66	1			131	141		10.2478/hukin-2018-0053			MAR 2019	2019	We investigated the effectiveness of a short-duration training period including an overloaded (weeks 1 and 2) and a reduced training load period (weeks 3 and 4) on wellness, swimming performance and a perceived internal training load in eight high-level water-polo players preparing for play-offs. The internal training load was estimated daily using the rating of perceived exertion (RPE) and session duration (session-RPE). Perceived ratings of wellness (fatigue, muscle soreness, sleep quality, stress level and mood) were assessed daily. Swimming performance was evaluated through 400m and 20-m tests performed before (baseline) and after the end of weeks 2 and 4. In weeks 3 and 4, the internal training load was reduced by 19.0 +/- 3.8 and 36.0 +/- 4.7%, respectively, compared to week 1 (p = 0.00). Wellness was improved in week 4 (20.4 +/- 2.8 AU) compared to week 1 and week 2 by 16.0 +/- 2.2 and 17.3 +/- 2.9 AU, respectively (p =0.001). At the end of week 4, swimming performance at 400-m and 20-m tests (299.0 +/- 10.2 and 10.2 +/- 0.3 s) was improved compared to baseline values (301.4 +/- 10.9 and 10.4 +/- 0.4 s, p < 0.05) and the overloading training period (week 2; 302.9 +/- 9.0 and 10.4 +/- 0.4 s, p < 0.05). High correlations were observed between the percentage reduction of the internal training load from week 4 to week 1 (-25.3 +/- 5.5%) and the respective changes in 20-m time (-2.1 +/- 2.2%, r = 0.88, p < 0.01), fatigue perception (39.6 +/- 27.1%), muscle soreness (32.5 +/- 26.6%), stress levels (25.6 +/- 15.1%) and the overall wellness scores (28.6 +/- 21.9%, r = 0.74-0.79, p < 0.05). The reduction of the internal training load improved the overall perceived wellness and swimming performance of players. The aforementioned periodization approach may be an effective training strategy in the lead-up to play-off tournaments.		[Botonis, Petros G.; Toubekis, Argyris G.; Platanou, Theodoros, I] Univ Athens, Sch Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Dept Aquat Sports, Athens, Greece; [Botonis, Petros G.] Univ Athens, Sch Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Dept Aquat Sports, 41 Ethnikis Antistasis Ave, Dafni 17237, Greece								18							Sport Sciences	WOS:000463582700013	32	Article; Article		
J	Tubez, Francois; Forthomme, Benedicte; Croisier, Jean-Louis; Bruls, Olivier; Denoel, Vincent; Paulus, Julien; Schwartz, Cedric								Inter-Session Reliability of the Tennis Serve and Influence of the Laboratory Context								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				66	1			57	67		10.2478/hukin-2018-0064			MAR 2019	2019	To meet the demand of a player's entourage (e.g., coaches and medical staff), it is important for the biomechanics specialist to perform repeatable measures. To the best of our knowledge, to date, it has not been demonstrated whether similar results are obtained between two sessions of testing or between laboratory and field sport kinematic protocols with regard to the tennis serve. This study had two primary aims. First, the inter-session repeatability of biomechanical variables of a tennis serve was evaluated. Second, the differences between laboratory and field evaluations were studied. Thirteen national tennis players (ITN 3) performed the same 28 markers' set laboratory test twice two weeks apart, and other thirteen national players (ITN 3) performed two 4 markers' set tests both in the laboratory and on an official tennis court one week apart. A 3D motion system was used to measure lower-limb, pelvis, trunk, dominant arm and racket kinematics. A force plate was used to evaluate kinetics of legs' drive in the laboratory. A personal method based on a point scoring system was developed to evaluate the ball landing location accuracy. We observed that the majority of the studied variables were acceptable for excellent relative reliability for the inter-session analysis. We also showed that the impact of the laboratory versus field context on the player's serve was limited.		[Tubez, Francois; Forthomme, Benedicte; Croisier, Jean-Louis; Bruls, Olivier; Denoel, Vincent; Paulus, Julien; Schwartz, Cedric] Univ Liege, Lab Human Mot Anal, Quartier Polytech 1,Allee Decouverte 13C, B-4000 Liege, Belgium; [Tubez, Francois; Forthomme, Benedicte; Croisier, Jean-Louis] Univ Liege, Dept Sci & Motor Skills, Liege, Belgium; [Tubez, Francois] Haute Ecole Robert Schuman Libramont, Physiotherapy Dept, Libramont, Belgium; [Bruls, Olivier] Univ Liege, Dept Appl Sci, Liege, Belgium; [Denoel, Vincent] Univ Liege, Dept Aerosp & Mech Engn, Liege, Belgium; [Tubez, Francois] Univ Liege, Lab Human Mot Anal, Quartier Polytech 1,Allee Decouverte 13C, B-4000 Liege, Belgium								11							Sport Sciences	WOS:000463582700006	38	Article; Article		
J	Ghram, Amine; Young, James D.; Soori, Rahman; Behm, David G.								Unilateral Knee and Ankle Joint Fatigue Induce Similar Impairment to Bipedal Balance in Judo Athletes								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				66	1			7	18		10.2478/hukin-2018-0063			MAR 2019	2019	The purpose of this study was to compare the effects of unilateral ankle fatigue versus the knee muscles with and without vision on bipedal postural control. Elite judo athletes who competed at the national level with at least 10 years of training experience, were randomised into KNEE (n = 10; 20 +/- 2 years) and ANKLE (n = 9; 20 +/- 3 years) groups, who performed dynamic isokinetic fatiguing contractions (force decreased to 50% of initial peak torque for three consecutive movements) of the knee flexors and extensors or ankle dorsiflexors and plantar flexors, respectively. Static bipedal postural control (French Posturology Association normative standards) with eyes open and eyes closed was examined before and immediately after the fatiguing task. Postural variables examined were the centre of pressure (CoP) sway in the medio-lateral and antero-posterior directions, total CoP area sway and CoP sway velocity. Although unilateral ankle and knee fatigue adversely affected all bipedal postural measures, with greater disturbances with eyes closed, there were no significant main group or interaction effects between KNEE and ANKLE groups. Unilateral lower limb fatigue adversely affected bipedal balance, with knee extension/flexion fatigue affecting bipedal postural control to a similar extent as unilateral ankle dorsiflexion/plantar flexion fatigue. Hence unilateral fatigue can affect subsequent bilateral performance or also have implications for rehabilitation exercise techniques. Our findings may be limited to judo athletes as other populations were not tested.		[Ghram, Amine; Soori, Rahman] Univ Tehran, Fac Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Dept Exercise Physiol, Tehran, Iran; [Ghram, Amine] Univ Sud, Hop Habib Bourguiba, Unite Rech Pathol Appareil Locomoteur UR12ES18, Sfax, Tunisia; [Young, James D.; Behm, David G.] Mem Univ Newfoundland, Sch Human Kinet & Recreat, St John, NF A1M 3L8, Canada; [Ghram, Amine] Univ Tehran Med Sci, Tehran Heart Ctr, Dept Cardiac Rehabil, Tehran, Iran; [Behm, David G.] Mem Univ Newfoundland, Sch Human Kinet & Recreat, 230 Elizabeth Ave, St John, NF A1C 5S7, Canada								12							Sport Sciences	WOS:000463582700002	32	Article; Article		
J	Rivilla-Garcia, Jesus; Carlos Calvo, Luis; Jimenez-Rubio, Sergio; Paredes-Hernandez, Victor; Munoz, Alejandro; van den Tillaar, Roland; Navandar, Archit								Characteristics of Very High Intensity Runs of Soccer Players in Relation to Their Playing Position and Playing Half in the 2013-14 Spanish La Liga Season								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				66	1			214	223		10.2478/hukin-2018-0058			MAR 2019	2019	The objective of this study was to carry out a detailed quantitative analysis of the very high intensity runs during actual play in the 2013-2014 Spanish First Division, at a general level and according to the specific playing position and half. 380 matches of the Spanish First Division in the 2013 - 2014 season were monitored using the Mediacoach video motion analysis tool. Total distance, very high intensity (above 21 km/h) running distance and the number of runs at very high intensity of 230 players from 20 teams in the Spanish First Division were analysed. The main findings of the study were that the performance indicators at very high intensities decreased from the first half to the second half for all outfield players (covered distance: 4694 +/- 538 m vs 4485 +/- 437 m, sprint distance: 256 +/- 72 m vs 239 +/- 67 m, number of sprints: 14.3 +/- 3.5 vs 13.2 +/- 3.1), except the central defenders (sprint distance: 166 +/- 37 vs 166 +/- 40 m, number of sprints: 10.0 +/- 2.1 vs 9.8 +/- 3.8). Secondly, although wide defenders (9759 +/- 665 m) and central midfielders (9776 +/- 942 m) covered the most distance during matches, it were the wide defenders (30 +/- 5), centre-forwards (28 +/- 7) and wide midfielders (31 +/- 8) who performed the most runs at very high intensity. Consequently, the distance they ran at these very high intensity runs followed the same pattern. Such results enable general and specific profiles by demarcation to be established based on the demands of the game at high-level competitive play.		[Rivilla-Garcia, Jesus; Carlos Calvo, Luis; Jimenez-Rubio, Sergio; Navandar, Archit] Univ Politecn Madrid, Sports Dept, Calle Martin Fierro 7, E-28040 Madrid, Spain; [Paredes-Hernandez, Victor] Camilo Jose Cela Univ, Fac Phys Act & Sports Sci, Calle Castillo Alarcon 49, Madrid 28692, Spain; [Munoz, Alejandro] Univ Francisco Vitoria, Degree Phys Act & Sports Sci, Carretera Pozuelo Majadahonda,Km 1-800, Madrid 28223, Spain; [van den Tillaar, Roland] Nord Univ, Dept Sport Sci & Phys Educ, Hogskolevegen 27, N-7600 Levanger, Norway; [Navandar, Archit] Univ Europea Madrid, Fac Sport Sci, Calle Tajo S-N, Villaviciosa De Odon 28670, Madrid, Spain; [Navandar, Archit] Univ Europea Madrid, Fac Sport Sci, Calle Tajo S-N, Villaviciosa De Odon 28670, Madrid, Spain								56							Sport Sciences	WOS:000463582700021	23	Article; Article		
J	Starczewski, Michal; Zmijewski, Piotr; Witek, Katarzyna; Klusiewicz, Andrzej								Physiological Aspects of Different Roller Skiing Techniques in Field Conditions								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				66	1			111	120		10.2478/hukin-2018-0052			MAR 2019	2019	The main goal of the study was to evaluate the impact of different roller skiing techniques (classical CT and skating ST) performed under field conditions on physical capacity variables in cross-country skiers. The second purpose was to evaluate the possibility to use the test results conducted under field and laboratory conditions interchangeably to determine training loads. Eight international-level cross-country skiers (4 male, 4 female) with 8.8 +/- 1.3 years of skiing experience took part in the study. The athletes performed three graded tests to exhaustion: two under field conditions (roller skiing CT and ST techniques) and one in the laboratory: treadmill running (TR). All tests were conducted within a period of two weeks to compare general and specific physical capacity outcomes. ANOVA demonstrated significant differences in the threshold heart rate (HRAT4) (ST 175.3 +/- 10.8 bpm, CT 175.8 +/- 10.9 bpm, TR 181.5 +/- 11.1 bpm; p = 0.004), maximal oxygen uptake (VO2max) (ST 64.0 +/- 4.65 ml/kg/min, CT 61.5 +/- 5.09 ml/kg/min, TR 65.9 +/- 2.30 ml/kg/min; p = 0.008) and maximal HR (ST 189.3 +/- 10.9 bpm, CT 188.9 +/- 10.6 bpm, TR 199.5 +/- 10.3 bpm; p = 0.002). No significant differences were observed between classical and skating roller skiing techniques for maximal and threshold values except for threshold velocity (CT 13.4 +/- 1.11 km/h vs. ST 14.7 +/- 1.17 km/h p = 0.002). Maximal velocity was not measured. The main finding of the study is that it is possible to use threshold HR values obtained in roller skiing tests performed using the classical or skating techniques interchangeably to determine roller skiing training loads. The results of the study indicate that there is a need to verify maximal treadmill running exertion variables in specific roller skiing tests.		[Starczewski, Michal; Zmijewski, Piotr; Klusiewicz, Andrzej] Natl Res Inst Warsaw, Inst Sport, Dept Physiol, Warsaw, Poland; [Witek, Katarzyna] Jozef Pilsudski Univ Phys Educ Warsaw, Dept Water & Winter Sports, Warsaw, Poland; [Starczewski, Michal] Natl Res Inst, Inst Sport, Trylogii 2-16 St, PL-01982 Warsaw, Poland								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:000463582700011	30	Article; Article		
J	Booysen, Marc Jon; Gradidge, Philippe Jean-Luc; Constantinou, Demitri								Anthropometric and Motor Characteristics of South African National Level Female Soccer Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				66	1			121	129		10.1515/hukin-2017-0189			MAR 2019	2019	Data regarding anthropometric and motor characteristics of elite national level female soccer players are scarce. Determining these characteristics may likely assist in evaluating the specificity of current training programmes, identify players who might lack specific qualities deemed critical for the successful execution of their tactical roles, and benchmark norms for developing future playing talent. Therefore, the aims of this study were to describe anthropometric and motor characteristics of South African national level female soccer players (n = 37) and determine possible differences with regard to their playing position. The following measurements and tests were performed: anthropometry (body mass index and sum-of-skinfolds), the countermovement jump, sprints (10 m, 20 m and 40 m), upper body muscle endurance (push-ups) and the Yo-Yo Intermittent Recovery Test - level 1. One-way analysis of variance revealed few differences in the main outcome variables. Fischer Least Significant Difference (LSD) showed that strikers had a greater body mass index than midfielders and defenders (both p = 0.04) and goalkeepers were heavier than defenders (p = 0.02). Goalkeepers were slower than strikers and defenders over 10 m (p = 0.01; p = 0.03) and 20 m (p = 0.001; p = 0.01). Midfielders were slower than strikers over 20 m (p = 0.02), and with strikers and defenders over 40 m (both p = 0.04). Defenders performed better than goalkeepers in the upper body muscle endurance test (p = 0.02). In conclusion, both strikers and defenders require speed to win ball possession, which may explain their fast sprint times. However, the similarity of certain motor characteristics across playing positions may suggest that conditioning coaches train players similarly, irrespective of their tactical position. The authors suggest that South African fitness professionals, particularly at a club level, develop physical conditioning programs specific to each field position. Furthermore, fitness assessments should occur on a continuous basis and comparisons should be made with existing normative data in order to guide the development of players over the course of their careers.		[Booysen, Marc Jon; Gradidge, Philippe Jean-Luc; Constantinou, Demitri] Univ Witwatersrand, Fac Hlth Sci, CESSM, Sch Therapeut Sci, Johannesburg, South Africa; [Gradidge, Philippe Jean-Luc] Univ Witwatersrand, Fac Hlth Sci, CESSM, Sch Therapeut Sci, Johannesburg, South Africa; [Gradidge, Philippe Jean-Luc] Ctr Exercise Sci & Sports Med, Wits Med Sch, ZA-2050 Johannesburg, South Africa								16							Sport Sciences	WOS:000463582700012	36	Article; Article		
J	Kubayi, Alliance; Toriola, Abel								The Influence of Situational Variables on Ball Possession in the South African Premier Soccer League								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				66	1			175	181		10.2478/hukin-2018-0056			MAR 2019	2019	Although the influence of ball possession in soccer has been well studied in other leagues, such information is sparse concerning the South African Premier Soccer League (PSL). The purpose of this study was to assess the impact of situational variables on ball possession in the PSL. Thirty-two matches played during the 2016-2017 PSL season were analysed using a multiple-camera match analysis system (InStat (R)). Three situational variables (match outcome, match location, and quality of opposition) and team performance variables (percentage of ball possession, ball possession <5 s, ball possession 5-15 s, ball possession 15-45 s, and ball possession >45 s) were examined. The results showed that losing teams had the highest ball possession (52.35 +/- 5.90%) compared to winning (47.65 +/- 5.90%) and drawing (50.00 +/- 9.98%) teams. Playing away significantly (p < 0.05) decreased ball possession by 5.21% compared to playing at home. Playing against weak opposition was associated with increased ball possession by 4.09%. Conclusively, soccer coaches should be aware of the potential role of situational variables in determining successful team performance in a league season.		[Kubayi, Alliance; Toriola, Abel] Tshwane Univ Technol, Dept Sport Rehabil & Dent Sci, ZA-0001 Pretoria, South Africa; [Kubayi, Alliance] Tshwane Univ Technol, Dept Sport Rehabil & Dent Sci, ZA-0001 Pretoria, South Africa								22							Sport Sciences	WOS:000463582700017	16	Article; Article		
J	Gawda, Piotr; Ginszt, Michal; Zawadka, Magdalena; Skublewska-Paszkowska, Maria; Smolka, Jakub; Lukasik, Edyta; Majcher, Piotr								Bioelectrical Activity of Vastus Medialis and Rectus Femoris Muscles in Recreational Runners with Anterior Knee Pain								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				66	1			81	88		10.2478/hukin-2018-0065			MAR 2019	2019	Patellofemoral pain syndrome (PFPS), the most common source of knee pain among physically active individuals, is defined as anterior knee pain involving the patella and retinaculum that excludes other intraarticular and peri-patellar pathology. Differences in the activation and endurance of the quadriceps components, causing an imbalance in the forces controlling patellar tracking during flexion and extension in the knee joint, appear to be the most commonly reported risk factors for PFPS. The aim of this study was to determine the differences in bioelectric activity of vastus medialis and rectus femoris muscles during half knee bend position in runners with PFPS. The sample comprised 20 recreational runners (15 males, 5 females; aged 27 +/- 5 years) reporting knee pain and diagnosed with PFPS. The age- and sex-matched control group consisted of recreational runners who did not report knee pain. The myon electromyographic system was used to determine the changes in the electromyographic median frequency during a half squat position. The decrease in the median frequency of vastus medialis and rectus femoris muscles was significantly greater in runners with PFPS in comparison to the control group (p < 0.01 for right and left vastus medialis and right rectus femoris; p < 0.05 for left rectus femoris). There is a relationship between knee pain related to PFPS and the imbalance of bioelectric activity of vastus medialis and rectus femoris muscles. Achieving the muscular balance within the thigh muscles can be an important factor in the rehabilitation process of PFPS.		[Gawda, Piotr; Ginszt, Michal; Zawadka, Magdalena; Majcher, Piotr] Med Univ Lublin, Lublin, Poland; [Skublewska-Paszkowska, Maria; Smolka, Jakub; Lukasik, Edyta] Lublin Univ Technol, Lublin, Poland; [Gawda, Piotr; Ginszt, Michal; Zawadka, Magdalena; Majcher, Piotr] Med Univ Lublin, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Rehabil & Physiotherapy, Chair Rehabil Physiotherapy & Balneotherapy, Ul Magnoliowa 2, PL-20143 Lublin, Poland; [Ginszt, Michal] Med Univ Lublin, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Rehabil & Physiotherapy, Chair Rehabil Physiotherapy & Balneotherapy, Ul Magnoliowa 2, PL-20143 Lublin, Poland								9							Sport Sciences	WOS:000463582700008	36	Article; Article		
J	Ozgunen, Kerem T.; Ozdemir, Cigdem; Korkmaz-Eryilmaz, Selcen; Kilci, Abdullah; Gunasti, Ozgur; Kurdak, Sanli S.								A Comparison of the Maximal Fat Oxidation Rates of Three Different Time Periods in The Fatmax Stage								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				18	1			44	51					MAR 2019	2019	This study aimed to compare the maximal fat oxidation (MFO) rates obtained from the stage average, last 2 min average, and highest value in the Fatmax stage determined with a 6 min step protocol. A total of 35 overweight, sedentary healthy men (age: 25.4 +/- 0.7 years, body mass index: 26.0 +/- 0.6 kg/m(2)) participated in the study. Substrate oxidation was calculated using breath-by-breath gas exchange data for each stage. When the change in the fat oxidation rate for every min throughout the Fatmax stage was evaluated, the average value of the 4th min was significantly lower than that of the 2nd and 3rd min (p < 0.01). In addition, the 5th and 6th min fat oxidation rates were significantly lower than the rates of the 1st, 2nd, 3rd, and 4th min (0.30 +/- 0.01 and 0.29 +/- 0.01 g/min for the 5th and 6th min, respectively, vs. 0.35 +/- 0.02, 0.34 +/- 0.02, 0.33 +/- 0.02, and 0.31 +/- 0.01 g/min for the 1st, 2nd, 3rd, and 4th min, respectively; p < 0.01). Most of the participants had MFO rates in the 1st min of the stage (16/35 participants), and the MFO rates of the remaining participants were observed in the 2nd, 3rd, and 4th min (7/35, 4/35, and 8/35 participants, respectively). None of the participants had MFO rates in the 5th or 6th min. The individual MFO rate (highest fat oxidation rate during Fatmax) was significantly higher than the fat oxidation rate calculated with the last 2 min average values (0.36 +/- 0.02 and 0.30 +/- 0.01 g/min, respectively; p < 0.05). In conclusion, the calculation of the fat oxidation rate by averaging the last portion of the Fatmax stage data may cause the underestimation of the MFO rate, which probably occurs earlier in the Fatmax stage.		[Ozgunen, Kerem T.; Ozdemir, Cigdem; Gunasti, Ozgur; Kurdak, Sanli S.] Cukurova Univ, Med Fac, Dept Physiol, Div Sports Physiol, Adana, Turkey; [Korkmaz-Eryilmaz, Selcen; Kilci, Abdullah] Cukurova Univ, Med Fac, Dept Phys Educ & Sports, Adana, Turkey; [Ozgunen, Kerem T.] Cukurova Univ, Med Fac, Dept Physiol, Div Sports Physiol, Adana, Turkey								11							Sport Sciences	WOS:000458299400005	39	Article; Article		
J	Sieghartsleitner, Roland; Zuber, Claudia; Zibung, Marc; Conzelmann, Achim								Science or Coaches' Eye? - Both! Beneficial Collaboration of Multidimensional Measurements and Coach Assessments for Efficient Talent Selection in Elite Youth Football								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				18	1			32	43					MAR 2019	2019	Due to the tremendous popularity of youth football, practitioners in this domain face the ongoing question of the most effective solutions in early talent selection. Although the scientific community has suggested multidimensional models for some time, coach assessments and motor performance tests remain common. Earlier research has determined the strengths and weaknesses within these different approaches. The current investigation directly compared the effectiveness of each approach in talent selection (coach assessment vs. motor performance tests vs. multidimensional data). A sample of 117 youth football players, their parents, and coaches participated in multidimensional measurements in the U14 age category (coach assessments, motor performance tests, psychological characteristics, familial support, training history, and biological maturation). The area under the curve (AUC [95% CI]) from receiver operating characteristic indicated the prognostic validity of each approach in predicting U19 player status five years after the assessments (professional vs. non-professional). Motor performance tests (0.71 [0.58; 0.84]) showed a lower AUC than the multidimensional data (0.85 [0.76; 0.94], p = 0.02), whilst coach assessments did not differ from the two others (.82 [.74; .90]). Further, combined talent selection approaches, especially the use of coach assessments and multidimensional data together, were significantly better at predicting U19 player status (0.93 [0.87; 0.98],p = 0.02 vs. multidimensional data only). Although certain limitations may impede further insights (summation of data, skipped use of non-linear statistics), scientific claims for using multidimensionality within talent selection were confirmed to be fruitful. In particular, the combination of the subjective coaches' eye with scientific data may buffer the mutual weaknesses of these different approaches. Future research should focus on optimizing the output of promising multidimensional models. Knowledge of detailed values relating to specific dimensions within these models and the implementation of enhanced non-linear statistics may enable further improvements in the field of talent selection.		[Sieghartsleitner, Roland; Zuber, Claudia; Zibung, Marc; Conzelmann, Achim] Univ Bern, Inst Sport Sci, Bremgartenstr 145, CH-3012 Bern, Switzerland; [Sieghartsleitner, Roland] Univ Bern, Inst Sport Sci, Bremgartenstr 145, CH-3012 Bern, Switzerland								127							Sport Sciences	WOS:000458299400004	84	Article; Article		
J	Guillot, Aymeric; Kerautret, Yann; Queyrel, Florian; Schobb, William; Di Rienzo, Franck								Foam Rolling and Joint Distraction with Elastic Band Training Performed for 5-7 Weeks Respectively Improve Lower Limb Flexibility								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				18	1			160	171					MAR 2019	2019	Both foam rolling and joint distraction training with elastic bands are very popular interventions designed to improve muscular function, motor performance, and joint range of motion, as well as to reduce feeling of fatigue and delayed onset of muscle soreness. The heterogeneity of methods used among studies however prevents from drawing firm conclusions about the optimal content of pre/post interventions. The present study aims at answering the following questions: i) Do foam rolling and joint distraction with elastic band training improve joint range of motion in national rugby players? ii) Do short and long rolling durations have similar effects on range of motion? In a first experiment, we compared ankle, knee, and hip flexibility scores in 30 national rugby players after a 7-week foam rolling training program involving either a short (20s) or long (40s) rolling duration. Data revealed that foam rolling substantially improved all range of motion scores, regardless the rolling duration (performance gains ranged from 9 to 18 degrees in the foam rolling groups, i.e. 8 to 20% increase, but remained under 2 degrees in the control group). In a second experiment, we investigated the effect of a 5-week joint distraction with elastic band training program on hamstring and adductor range of motion in 23 national rugby players. Data showed that elastic band training significantly improved sit-and-reach (29.16% increase, p = 0.01) as well as side split (2.31% increase, p < 0.001) stretching performances. Taken together, present findings confirm that both foam rolling and joint distraction exercises with elastic bands are likely to enhance joint range of motion and specific mobility patterns during sport performance, and further serve prophylaxis. Such effects therefore constitute a promising avenue for clinical, home therapy, and personal flexibility training.		[Guillot, Aymeric] Inst Univ France, Paris, France; [Guillot, Aymeric; Kerautret, Yann; Queyrel, Florian; Schobb, William; Di Rienzo, Franck] Univ Claude Bernard Lyon 1, Univ Lyon, LIBM, Villeurbanne, France; [Kerautret, Yann] CAPSIX, F-69450 St Cyr Au Mt Dor, France; [Guillot, Aymeric] Univ Claude Bernard Lyon 1, Univ Lyon, LIBM, EA7424, F-69622 Villeurbanne, France								35							Sport Sciences	WOS:000458299400019	85	Article; Article		
J	Romero-Moraleda, Blanca; Gonzalez-Garcia, Jaime; Cuellar-Rayo, Angel; Balsalobre-Fernandez, Carlos; Munoz-Garcia, Daniel; Morencos, Esther								Effects of Vibration and Non-Vibration Foam Rolling on Recovery after Exercise with Induced Muscle Damage								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				18	1			172	180					MAR 2019	2019	We aimed to compare the effects between non-vibration foam rolling (NVFR) and vibration foam rolling (VFR) on visual analogic scale (VAS), pressure pain threshold (PPT), oxygen saturation (SmO2), countermovement jump (CMJ) and hip and knee range of movement (ROM) after eliciting muscle damage through eccentric acute exercise using an inertial flywheel. Thirty-eight healthy volunteers (32 men, 6 women; aged 22.2 +/- 3.2 years) were randomly assigned in a counter-balanced fashion to either a VFR or NVFR protocol group. All participants performed a 10x10 (sets x repetitions) eccentric squat protocol to induce muscle damage. The protocols were administered 48-h post-exercise, measuring VAS, PPT, SmO2, CMJ and ROM, before and immediately post-treatment. The treatment technique was repeated on both legs for 1 minute for a total of five sets, with a 30-s rest between sets. The VFR group showed substantially greater improvements (likely to very likely) in the passive VAS (VFR -30.2%, 90% CI -66.2 to -12.8) with chances for lower, similar or greater VAS compared with the NVFR group of 82%, 14% and 4%, respectively and passive extension hip joint ROM (VFR 9.3%, 90% CI 0.2-19.2) with chances for lower, similar or greater ROM compared with the NVFR group of 78%, 21% and 1%, respectively. For intragroup changes, we observed substantial improvements in VAS (p=.05), lateral vastus, rectus femoris and medial vastus PPT. The results suggest that the VFR group achieved greater short-term benefits in pain perception and passive extension hip joint ROM. Both protocols were effective in improving PPT, SmO2, CMJ and knee joint ROM. The enhanced improvement in VAS and hip ROM measures could have significant implications for VFR treatment.		[Romero-Moraleda, Blanca; Gonzalez-Garcia, Jaime; Cuellar-Rayo, Angel] Camilo Jose Cela Univ, Fac Hlth, Madrid, Spain; [Balsalobre-Fernandez, Carlos] Univ Autonoma Madrid, Dept Phys Educ Sport & Human Movement, Madrid, Spain; [Morencos, Esther] Francisco de Vitoria Univ, Exercise & Sport Sci Educ & Humanities Fac, Madrid, Spain; [Romero-Moraleda, Blanca; Balsalobre-Fernandez, Carlos] Tech Univ Madrid, Sch Phys Act & Sport Sci INEF, Lab Exercise Physiol Res Grp, Dept Hlth & Human Performance, Madrid, Spain; [Munoz-Garcia, Daniel] Univ Autonoma Madrid, Ctr Super Estudios Univ La Salle, Inst Neurociencias & Ciencias Movimiento, Mot Brains Res Grp, Madrid, Spain; [Munoz-Garcia, Daniel] C La Salle 10, Madrid 28023, Spain								75							Sport Sciences	WOS:000458299400020	44	Article; Article		
J	Ikeda, Naoki; Inami, Takayuki; Kawakami, Yasuo								Stretching Combined with Repetitive Small Length Changes of the Plantar Flexors Enhances Their Passive Extensibility while Not Compromising Strength								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				18	1			58	64					MAR 2019	2019	Static stretching increases flexibility but can decrease muscle strength; therefore, a method that would avoid the latter has been longed for. In this study, a novel stretching modality was developed that provides repetitive small length changes to the plantar flexor muscles undergoing passive static stretching (minute oscillation stretching). We investigated the effects of minute oscillation stretching on muscle strength and flexibility and its continuance. Isometric plantar flexion strength and maximal ankle joint dorsiflexion angle (dorsiflexion range of motion) were measured in 10 healthy young men (22 +/- 2 years) before (pre) and immediately after (post) 3 types of stretching: static stretching, minute oscillation stretching at 15 Hz, and no intervention (control). The dorsiflexion range of motion was also measured at 15, 30, and 60 min post-stretching. Elongation of the medial gastrocnemius and Achilles tendon was determined by ultrasonography. Plantar flexion strength significantly decreased by 4.3 +/- 3.5% in static stretching but not in minute oscillation stretching. The dorsiflexion range of motion significantly increased both in static stretching (7.2 +/- 8.1%) and minute oscillation stretching (11.2 +/- 14.6%), which was accompanied by a significantly larger muscle elongation but not tendon elongation. Elevated dorsiflexion range of motion was maintained until 30 min after minute oscillation stretching, while levels returned to baseline (pre-intervention) 15 min after static stretching. All variables remained unchanged in the control condition. In conclusion, minute oscillation stretching improves extensibility of the muscle belly without decreasing strength. Furthermore, the augmented flexibility to a similar extent to static stretching is retained for 30 min in minute oscillation stretching and within 15 min in static stretching.		[Ikeda, Naoki; Kawakami, Yasuo] Waseda Univ, Fac Sport Sci, 2-579-15 Mikajima, Tokorozawa, Saitama 3591192, Japan; [Inami, Takayuki] Keio Univ, Inst Phys Educ, Yokohama, Kanagawa, Japan; [Ikeda, Naoki] Waseda Univ, Fac Sport Sci, 2-579-15 Mikajima, Tokorozawa, Saitama 3591192, Japan								8							Sport Sciences	WOS:000458299400007	31	Article; Article		
J	Li, Ming-Hui; Sum, Raymond Kim Wai; Wallhead, Tristan; Ha, Amy Sau Ching; Sit, Cindy Hui Ping; Li, Ru								Influence of Perceived Physical Literacy on Coaching Efficacy and Leadership Behavior: A Cross-Sectional Study								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				18	1			82	90					MAR 2019	2019	The concept of physical literacy has evolved to work as a guiding ideology in physical education, physical activity and heath, while little is known for coaching context. The purpose of this study was to examine the influence of perceived physical literacy (PPL) in predicting coaching efficacy and leadership behavior from the perceptions of student-athletes in Hong Kong secondary schools. A total of 352 (200 boys, 152 girls) student-athletes (14.78 +/- 1.73 years old) participated in this study. Perceived Physical Literacy Instrument (PPLI) for adolescents, Coaching Efficacy Scale (CES) and Leadership Scale for Sport (LSS) for student-athletes were adopted to assess the student-athletes' self-reported PL, perceptions of coaching efficacy and leadership behavior, respectively. Hierarchical linear regressions revealed that student-athletes' knowledge and understanding of physical literacy significantly predicted all the dimensions of coaching efficacy (18%23%, p<0.01) and leadership behavior (15%-27%, p < 0.05) except for autocratic behavior after controlling for the effects of demographic variables (such as age, gender, and training experience). The PPL attribute of Sense of Self and Self-confidence also demonstrated significant predictions with coaching efficacy (17%-19%, p < 0.01), while the PPL attribute of Self-expression and Communication with others only significantly predicted social support behavior (14%, p < 0.05). Path analysis showed PPL of student-athletes has significant predictions to their perceptions of coaches' leadership and this relationship was partially mediated by their perceptions of coaching efficacy ( )(beta = 0.57). Discussion highlights that this study is the first empirical study to explore PPL in the coaching context and its strength in predicting coaching effectiveness. The study provides a new perspective for coaching education programs or coach-oriented interventions by emphasizing the concept of physical literacy.		[Li, Ming-Hui; Sum, Raymond Kim Wai; Ha, Amy Sau Ching; Sit, Cindy Hui Ping; Li, Ru] Chinese Univ Hong Kong, Dept Sports Sci & Phys Educ, Shatin, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [Wallhead, Tristan] Univ Wyoming, Div Kinesiol & Hlth, Laramie, WY 82071 USA; [Sum, Raymond Kim Wai] Chinese Univ Hong Kong, Shatin, G09 Kwok Sports Bldg, Hong Kong, Peoples R China								9							Sport Sciences	WOS:000458299400010	50	Article; Article		
J	Iwata, Masahiro; Yamamoto, Ayano; Matsuo, Shingo; Hatano, Genki; Miyazaki, Manabu; Fukaya, Taizan; Fujiwara, Mitsuhiro; Asai, Yuji; Suzuki, Shigeyuki								Dynamic Stretching Has Sustained Effects on Range of Motion and Passive Stiffness of the Hamstring Muscles								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				18	1			13	20					MAR 2019	2019	Dynamic stretching (DS) is often performed during warm-up to help avoid hamstring muscle injuries, increase joint flexibility, and optimize performance. We examined the effects of DS of the hamstring muscles on passive knee extension range of motion (ROM), passive torque (PT) at the onset of pain (as a measure of stretch tolerance), and passive stiffness of the muscle-tendon unit over an extended period after stretching. Twenty-four healthy subjects participated, with 12 each in the experimental and control groups. Stretching was performed, and measurements were recorded using an isokinetic dynamometer pre-intervention, and at 0, 15, 30, 45, 60, 75, and 90 min post-intervention. DS consisted of ten 30-s sets of 15 repetitions of extension and relaxation of the hamstrings. ROM increased significantly (range, 7%-10%) immediately after DS, and the increase was sustained over 90 min. PT at the onset of pain also increased immediately by 10% but returned to baseline by 30 min. Passive stiffness decreased significantly (range, 7.9%-16.7%) immediately after DS, and the decrease was sustained over 90 min. Post-DS values were normalized to pre-DS values for the respective outcomes in both groups. ROM was significantly higher (range, 7.4%-10%) and passive stiffness was significantly lower (range, 5.4%-14.9%) in the experimental group relative to the control group at all time points. Normalized PT values at the onset of pain were significantly higher in the experimental group at 0-15 min than in the controls, but the differences were smaller at 30-45 min and not significant thereafter. We conclude that DS increases ROM and decreases passive stiffness in a sustained manner, and increases PT at the onset of pain for a shorter period. Overall, our results indicate that when performed prior to exercise, DS is beneficial for the hamstring muscles in terms of increasing flexibility and reducing stiffness.		[Iwata, Masahiro; Matsuo, Shingo; Asai, Yuji] Nihon Fukushi Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Rehabil, Handa, Japan; [Iwata, Masahiro] Univ Kentucky, Dept Physiol, Lexington, KY USA; [Iwata, Masahiro; Fujiwara, Mitsuhiro] Nagoya Univ, Program Phys & Occupat Therapy, Nagoya, Aichi, Japan; [Yamamoto, Ayano] Kamiiida Daiichi Gen Hosp, Nagoya, Aichi, Japan; [Hatano, Genki] ASICS Corp, Inst Sport Sci, Kobe, Hyogo, Japan; [Miyazaki, Manabu] Teikyo Heisei Univ, Fac Med Sci Hlth, Dept Phys Therapy, Toshima Ku, Tokyo, Japan; [Fukaya, Taizan] Kyoto Kujo Hosp, Kyoto, Japan; [Fujiwara, Mitsuhiro] Kamiiida Rehabil Hosp, Nagoya, Aichi, Japan; [Suzuki, Shigeyuki] Asahi Univ, Sch Hlth Sci, Dept Hlth & Sports Sci, Mizuho, Japan; [Iwata, Masahiro] 26-2 Higashihaemi Cho, Handa, Aichi 4750012, Japan								71							Sport Sciences	WOS:000458299400002	49	Article; Article		
J	Strauss, Anita; Sparks, Martinique; Pienaar, Cindy								The Use of GPS Analysis to Quantify the Internal and External Match Demands of Semi-Elite Level Female Soccer Players during a Tournament								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				18	1			73	81					MAR 2019	2019	The purpose of this study was to make use of global positioning system technology to quantify the internal and external match demands of sub-elite female soccer players. Secondly, the study aims to describe the magnitude of change of these variables within and between matches over the course of a tournament to determine the effect of player fatigue. Thirty sub-elite female soccer players were assessed throughout a local tournament. Differences in match demands within and between matches were assessed using percent difference, effect size and 90% confidence intervals. One-way ANOVA was used to compare differences in the match demands and running intensities among playing positions and Bonferroni corrections were used to determine differences where significant effects of position were observed. A paired sample t-test in conjunction with the Cohen effect size was used to compare changes in match performance. Total distance covered averaged 5917 m. Midfielders covered the greatest absolute and relative total distances, and achieved the highest low-intensity activity and player load per minute of play. Defenders covered significantly (p <= 0.05) less relative distance and low-intensity activity per minute of play compared to midfielders. Forwards covered the greatest distance at high-intensity, while the greatest percentage of time at high-intensity heart rate was measured among the defenders. Within match comparisons revealed that player load decreased significantly (p <= 0.05) in the second half (ES: 0.4). Relative distance, low-intensity activity and high-intensity activity also decreased in the second half with possibly trivial to likely small changes. Small to large differences in variables were observed throughout the tournament. The biggest magnitude of change was seen with a large decrease (ES: -1.2) in relative distance covered between match 2 and 5. Despite generally small reductions in performance measures, there is evidence that accumulated fatigue throughout a multi-day tournament would affect performance negatively.		[Strauss, Anita] Tshwane Univ Technol, Dept Sport Rehabil & Dent Sci, ZA-0001 Pretoria, South Africa; [Strauss, Anita; Sparks, Martinique; Pienaar, Cindy] North West Univ, Phys Act Sport & Recreat PhASRec, Private Bag X6001, Potchefstroom, South Africa; [Strauss, Anita] Tshwane Univ Technol, Fac Sci, Dept Sport Rehabil & Dent Sci, Pretoria West Campus, ZA-0001 Pretoria, South Africa								59							Sport Sciences	WOS:000458299400009	40	Article; Article		
J	Garcez, Aguinaldo S.; Suzuki, Selly S.; Storto, Camilla J.; Cusmanich, Karla G.; Elkenawy, Islam; Moon, Won								Effects of maxillary skeletal expansion on respiratory function and sport performance in a para-athlete - A case report								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				36				70	77		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.01.005			MAR 2019	2019	The aim of this case report was to demonstrate the effects of the Maxillary Skeletal Expander (MSE) used to orthopedically correct a maxillary constriction, on the respiratory functions and swimming performance of a Para-athlete. Cone-beam computed tomography (CBCT) images taken before and after MSE activation were used to demonstrate the disarticulation of midpalatal suture, and the changes involved in dental and nasomaxillary structures, nasal cavity and pharyngeal airway. Respiratory tests included: maximum inspiratory and expiratory pressure, oral peak expiratory flow and inspiratory nasal flow. The 6-min-walk and heart rate recovery tests were also performed. Patient's swimming performances during national swimming competitions were compared. CBCT images showed that palatal expansion was 5.91 mm at the suture, and that nasal and pharyngeal airways increased in volume by 31%. All respiratory indices improved after MSE activation. The 6-min walk test and heart rate recovery test performance also improved after the maxillary expansion. Patient's swimming performance in all category were anemic prior to the treatment, but performance improved considerably after the expansion, particularly the 100 m-Backstroke modality. MSE treatment had a significant positive impact in respiratory functions and sport performance. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Garcez, Aguinaldo S.] Sao Leopoldo Mandic Inst & Res Ctr, Dept Microbiol, Campinas, SP, Brazil; [Suzuki, Selly S.; Storto, Camilla J.] Sao Leopoldo Mandic Inst & Res Ctr, Dept Postgrad Orthodont, Campinas, SP, Brazil; [Cusmanich, Karla G.] Univ Taubate, Dept Grad Phys Therapy, Taubate, SP, Brazil; [Elkenawy, Islam; Moon, Won] Univ Calif Los Angeles, Sch Dent, Sect Orthodont, Los Angeles, CA 90024 USA; [Suzuki, Selly S.] Rua Taquara Branca 78, BR-02069000 Sao Paulo, Brazil								10							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000460821300013	41	Article; Article		
J	Hoch, Johanna M.; Baez, Shelby E.; Hoch, Matthew C.								Examination of ankle function in individuals with a history of ACL reconstruction								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				36				55	61		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.01.002			MAR 2019	2019	Objective: To determine the relationship between self-reported ankle and knee function, and to examine differences in ankle function between healthy and injured limbs in individuals with a history of ACL reconstruction (ACLR). Design: Cross-sectional. Setting: Laboratory. Participants: A total of 18 adults with a history of ACLR. Main outcome measures: Participants completed four patient-reported outcomes: the Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome (KOOS), the Fear-Avoidance Belief Questionnaire, the modified Disablement in the Physically Active Scale, and the Quick-Foot and Ankle Ability Measure (Quick-FAAM). Additional ankle function measures collected bilaterally included plantar cutaneous sensation, dorsifiexion range of motion and dorsifiexion and plantarfiexion strength. Results: Three KOOS-subscales were significantly, moderately correlated to the Quick-FAAM for the injured limb. There were differences in the uninjured and injured Quick-FAAM scores. No other differences were observed in ankle function measures. Conclusions: Self-reported ankle and knee function are correlated in participants with a history of ACLR. Clinicians should be made aware of the influence of this health condition on the distal joint, and treatment strategies to address these perceived impairments should be considered. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Hoch, Johanna M.] Univ Kentucky, 206A Charles T Wethington Bldg, Lexington, KY 40536 USA; [Baez, Shelby E.] Univ Kentucky, 206 Charles T Wethington Bldg, Lexington, KY 40536 USA; [Hoch, Matthew C.] Univ Kentucky, Sports Med Res Inst, 720 Sports Ctr Dr, Lexington, KY 40536 USA; [Hoch, Johanna M.] Univ Kentucky, 206A Charles T Wethington Bldg, Lexington, KY 40536 USA								6							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000460821300010	36	Article; Article		
J	Guerino Macedo, Christiane S.; Tadiello, Felipe F.; Medeiros, Leonardo T.; Antonelo, Marcio C.; Ferreira Alves, Marco A.; Mendonca, Luciana D.								Physical Therapy Service delivered in the Polyclinic During the Rio 2016 Paralympic Games								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				36				62	67		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.01.003			MAR 2019	2019	Objective: To characterize the Physical Therapy Services delivered at the Polyclinic during the Rio 2016 Paralympic Games. Design: Retrospective Cohort Study. Setting: Physical Therapy Services (PTS) of the Polyclinic. Participants: Athletes attended for Physical Therapy treatment at the Polyclinic during Rio 2016 Paralympic Games. Main outcome measures: The number of athletes treated, their nationalities, their sports modality, the most frequently treated regions and the interventions applied. Results: A total of 4504 interventions were delivered and 399 athletes were treated in the PTS. Athletes representing athletics and sitting volleyball were the most frequently attended for treatment. The main diagnoses were muscle tension and tendinopathy. Analgesia was the main purpose of treatment and myofascial release and electrotherapy was the most frequent interventions. Recovery service had a total of 1579 encounters and male athletes used cryo-immersion 3 times more when compared to female. Conclusion: Athletes representing athletics and sitting volleyball were the most frequently attended for treatment and the thoracic/lumbar spine and pelvis/hip were the most commonly affected regions. Muscle strain and tendinopathy were the most frequent diagnoses and myofascial release and electrotherapy were the most frequent therapies used to achieve analgesia. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Guerino Macedo, Christiane S.] Univ Estadual Londrina, Phys Therapy Dept, Londrina, Brazil; [Guerino Macedo, Christiane S.; Tadiello, Felipe F.; Medeiros, Leonardo T.; Antonelo, Marcio C.; Ferreira Alves, Marco A.; Mendonca, Luciana D.] Soc Nacl Fisioterapia Esport SONAFE, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Ferreira Alves, Marco A.] Univ Santa Cecilia UNISANTA, Phys Therapy Dept, Santos, Brazil; [Mendonca, Luciana D.] Univ Fed Vales Jequitinhonha & Mucuri, Sch Biol & Hlth Sci, Phys Therapy Dept, MGT 367 Rd Km 583,5000 Alto Jacuba, BR-39100000 Diamantina, MG, Brazil; [Mendonca, Luciana D.] Univ Fed Vales Jequitinhonha & Mucuri, Sch Biol & Hlth Sci, Phys Therapy Dept, MGT 367 Rd Km 583,5000 Alto Jacuba, BR-39100000 Diamantina, MG, Brazil								13							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000460821300011	24	Article; Article		
J	Lanham, Sarah N.; Cooper, James J.; Chrysosferidis, Peter; Szekely, Brian; Langford, Emily; Snarr, Ronald L.								Exercise Technique: Deficit Deadlift								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				41	1			115	119		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000428			FEB 2019	2019	This column provides a thorough description and photographs of the proper technique for a deficit deadlift. This exercise is an advanced variation of the standard deadlift and is designed to increase strength within the lower-body musculature.Incorporation of the deficit deadlift may benefit those requiring explosive power, sprinting, or jumping. For a video abstract of this article, see supplemental digital content 1, http://links.lww.com/scj/a246.		[Lanham, Sarah N.; Cooper, James J.; Langford, Emily; Snarr, Ronald L.] Georgia Southern Univ, Dept Hlth Sci & Kinesiol, Statesboro, GA 30460 USA; [Chrysosferidis, Peter] Brenau Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Gainesville, GA USA; [Szekely, Brian] Univ Nevada, Dept Psychol, Reno, NV 89557 USA; [Snarr, Ronald L.] Georgia Southern Univ, Dept Hlth Sci & Kinesiol, Statesboro, GA 30460 USA								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:000463253600011	17	Article; Article		
J	Pichardo, Andrew W.; Oliver, Jon L.; Harrison, Craig B.; Maulder, Peter S.; Lloyd, Rhodri S.								Integrating Resistance Training Into High School Curriculum								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				41	1			39	50		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000412			FEB 2019	2019	Resistance training for youth athletes is becoming increasingly common. integrating a periodized resistance training program into school curriculum can help develop athleticism for all youth. This article aims to provide an overview of a resistance training program used in a new zealand secondary school. Provided is an insight into the levels of planning for an effective athletic development program. Properly sequenced training blocks are essential in achieving long-term success. In addition, coaches must be sufficiently certified and qualified to work with youth, which includes tailoring approaches to varying levels of skill and providing effective feedback.		[Pichardo, Andrew W.; Oliver, Jon L.; Harrison, Craig B.; Maulder, Peter S.; Lloyd, Rhodri S.] AUT Univ, Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand SPRINZ, Auckland, New Zealand; [Oliver, Jon L.; Lloyd, Rhodri S.] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Sch Sport, Youth Phys Dev Ctr, Cardiff, S Glam, Wales; [Maulder, Peter S.; Lloyd, Rhodri S.] Waikato Inst Technol, Ctr Sport Sci & Human Performance, Hamilton, New Zealand; [Pichardo, Andrew W.] AUT Univ, Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand SPRINZ, Auckland, New Zealand								11							Sport Sciences	WOS:000463253600004	89	Article; Article		
J	Dos'Santos, Thomas; Thomas, Christopher; Comfort, Paul; Jones, Paul A.								Role of the Penultimate Foot Contact During Change of Direction: Implications on Performance and Risk of Injury								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				41	1			87	104		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000395			FEB 2019	2019	Most change of direction biomechanical investigations and current technique guidelines focus on the role of the final foot contact. However, it is evident that penultimate foot contact braking characteristics play an integral role in deceleration before directional changes >= 60 degrees; And can therefore, be described as a "preparatory step." In this review, we examine the role of the penultimate foot contact on change of direction performance and biomechanical injury risk factors, and provide technical guidelines for coaching the "preparatory step" during change of direction, to enhance performance and reduce risk of injury. A video abstract describing this article can be found in supplemental digital content 1 (see video, http://links.lww. com/scj/a240).		[Dos'Santos, Thomas; Thomas, Christopher; Comfort, Paul; Jones, Paul A.] Univ Salford, Directorate Sport Exercise & Physiotherapy, Human Performance Lab, Manchester, England; [Thomas, Christopher] Univ South Wales, Sch Hlth Sport & Profess Practice, Pontypridd, M Glam, Wales; [Dos'Santos, Thomas] Univ Salford, Directorate Sport Exercise & Physiotherapy, Human Performance Lab, Manchester, England								57							Sport Sciences	WOS:000463253600009	98	Article; Article		
J	Wing, Chris								Designing Pre-Season Training Programs Using Global Positioning Systems: A Systematic Approach								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				41	1			27	38		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000406			FEB 2019	2019	The global positioning system is a commonly used technology within sports performance to assess the movement patterns of athletes during both competition and training. The data derived from this system can be used to gain a better understanding of the demands of both match play and individual training drills. These data can be subsequently used to devise pre-season training programs. A systematic 7-step approach has been outlined within this article to aid practitioners with this process.		[Wing, Chris] Australian Strength & Conditioning Assoc, Helensvale Town Ctr, Qld, Australia; [Wing, Chris] Australian Strength & Conditioning Assoc, Helensvale Town Ctr, Qld, Australia								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:000463253600003	49	Article; Article		
J	Gibson, Luke; Groom, Ryan								The micro-politics of organisational change in professional youth football: Towards an understanding of "actions, strategies and professional interests"								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				14	1			3	14		10.1177/1747954118766311			FEB 2019	2019	Employment within professional football is characterised by high levels of staff turnover, uncertainty, vulnerability and insecurity. This paper aims to investigate the experiences of James, Head of Foundation Phase within an English professional youth academy, during a period of organisational change. Data were collected through field notes, informal observations and meetings, formal academy team meetings, co-worker interviews and four semi-structured in-depth participant interviews, which were subjected to an iterative process of inductive and deductive analysis. Theorising regarding the influence of professional self-interests upon the actions and strategies of the social actors was utilised to make sense of James' narrative. The findings highlighted how James strategically managed his relationships with others to further his own professional self-interests. Finally, following the findings of this study, we propose that the ability to develop micro-political literacy and a repertoire of micro-political actions and strategies would benefit coaches working within professional football during such periods of instability and change.		[Gibson, Luke] Univ Derby, Sport Outdoor & Exercise Sci, Derby, England; [Groom, Ryan] Manchester Metropolitan Univ, Dept Exercise & Sport Sci, Crewe, England; [Gibson, Luke] Univ Derby, Dept Life Sci, Sport Outdoor & Exercise Sci, Coll Life & Nat Sci, Derby DE22 1GB, England								18							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000456436900001	32	Article; Article		
J	Pizarro, David; Praxedes, Alba; Travassos, Bruno; del Villar, Fernando; Moreno, Alberto								The effects of a nonlinear pedagogy training program in the technical-tactical behaviour of youth futsal players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				14	1			15	23		10.1177/1747954118812072			FEB 2019	2019	The aim of this study was to analyse the effect of an intervention program, based on nonlinear pedagogy, on the decision-making and execution of different actions in futsal. The intervention program consisted of 12 training sessions. A quasi-experimental study was developed with eight male futsal players (M = 15.375, SD = 0.517). The GPET instrument was used to analyse the decision-making and execution of 3442 actions measured during competitive matches (pass, dribbling and shooting). Both variables were analysed with regard to the three tactical principles of attack: keep the ball possession, progression towards the goal and shooting at goal with the lowest level of opposition. With respect to the pass, results showed significantly higher values in decision-making and execution in the first and second principles, but not in the third one. In the dribbling action, results showed significantly higher values in decision-making in the second and third principle, but not in the first one. However, no significant differences were found in the shooting actions. These findings suggest that coaches should take into account in the task design, the tactical principles of play to develop tactical behaviour of youth futsal players.		[Pizarro, David; Praxedes, Alba] Univ Nebrija, Fac Languages & Educ, Madrid, Spain; [Travassos, Bruno] Univ Beira Interior, Dept Sport Sci, Res Ctr Sport Sci Hlth & Human Dev CIDESD, Covilha, Portugal; [del Villar, Fernando] Rey Juan Carlos Univ, Sport Studies Ctr, Alcorcon, Spain; [Moreno, Alberto] Univ Extremadura, Fac Sport Sci, Caceres, Spain; [Moreno, Alberto] Univ Extremadura, Avd Univ S-N, Caceres 10003, Extremadura, Spain								35							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000456436900002	39	Article; Article		
J	Myers, N. L.; Kibler, W. B.; Axtell, A. H.; Uhl, T. L.								The Sony Smart Tennis Sensor accurately measures external workload in junior tennis players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				14	1			24	31		10.1177/1747954118805278			FEB 2019	2019	This study determined the measurement accuracy of the Sony Smart Tennis Sensor (SSTS) when categorizing hitting volume, shot type, and ball speed, and to determine the average number of shots performed by junior players during practice and match play. Fourteen high school players (16 +/- 3 years, 12 males, 2 females) were followed for a period of six weeks. Criterion validity was established by comparing video and observational data to the SSTS data in order to determine the hitting volume, stroke type, and ball speed measurement accuracy of the sensor. Additionally, each player's hitting volume and stroke type were tracked for six weeks using the SSTS. Strokes were categorized into forehand swings, backhand swings, overhead swings, and total volume. Hitting volume accuracy ranged between 91% and 96% for all forehand, backhand, and overhead swings. All backhand and overhead swings were identified correctly by the SSTS when compared to visual observation. There was a 10% error rate in forehand swing shot identification. Approximately 50%, 30%, and 20% of the total volume of strokes are FHs, BHs, and serves, respectively, regardless of practice or match play. The SSTS is an accurate way of measuring hitting volume in tennis and can be used by coaches to track practice and match volume over time. Monitoring workloads over time can help prepare players for rigorous competition schedules.		[Myers, N. L.] Texas State Univ, Dept Hlth & Human Performance, 601 Univ Dr, San Marcos, TX 78666 USA; [Kibler, W. B.] Shoulder Ctr Kentucky, Lexington, KY USA; [Axtell, A. H.] Univ Kentucky, Human Hlth Sci, Lexington, KY USA; [Uhl, T. L.] Univ Kentucky, Rehabil Sci, Lexington, KY USA; [Myers, N. L.] Texas State Univ, Dept Hlth & Human Performance, 601 Univ Dr, San Marcos, TX 78666 USA								19							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000456436900003	17	Article; Article		
J	Moeskops, Sylvia; Oliver, Jon L.; Read, Paul J.; Cronin, John B.; Myer, Gregory D.; Lloyd, Rhodri S.								The Physiological Demands of Youth Artistic Gymnastics: Applications to Strength and Conditioning								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				41	1			1	13		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000404			FEB 2019	2019	The sport of artistic gymnastics involves a series of complex events that can expose young gymnasts to relatively high forces. The sport is recognized as attracting early specialization, in which young children are exposed to a high volume of sports-specific training. Leading world authorities advocate that young athletes should participate in strength and conditioning-related activities to increase athlete robustness and reduce the relative risk of injury. The purpose of this commentary is to provide a needs analysis of artistic gymnastics and to highlight key issues surrounding training that practitioners should consider when working with this unique population.		[Moeskops, Sylvia; Oliver, Jon L.; Lloyd, Rhodri S.] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Cardiff Sch Sport, Youth Phys Dev Unit, Cardiff, S Glam, Wales; [Oliver, Jon L.; Cronin, John B.; Lloyd, Rhodri S.] AUT Univ, Sport Performance Res Inst, New Zealand SPRINZ, Auckland, New Zealand; [Read, Paul J.] Aspetar Orthopaed & Sports Med Hosp, Athlete Hlth & Performance Res Ctr, Doha, Qatar; [Myer, Gregory D.] Cincinnati Childrens Hosp, Div Sports Med, Cincinnati, OH USA; [Myer, Gregory D.] Univ Cincinnati, Coll Med, Dept Pediat & Orthopaed Surg, Cincinnati, OH USA; [Myer, Gregory D.] Micheli Ctr Sports Injury Prevent, Boston, MA USA; [Myer, Gregory D.] Univ Penn, Dept Orthopaed, Philadelphia, PA 19104 USA; [Lloyd, Rhodri S.] Waikato Inst Technol, Ctr Sport Sci & Human Performance, Hamilton, New Zealand; [Moeskops, Sylvia] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Cardiff Sch Sport, Youth Phys Dev Unit, Cardiff, S Glam, Wales								36							Sport Sciences	WOS:000463253600001	112	Article; Article		
J	de Boer, Willem I. J.; Koning, Ruud H.; Mierau, Jochen O.								Ex Ante and Ex Post Willingness to Pay for Hosting a Large International Sport Event								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				20	2			159	176		10.1177/1527002518771445			FEB 2019	2019	Using the contingent valuation method, we estimate residents' ex ante and ex post willingness to pay (WTP) for hosting a large international sport event: The "big start" of the 2016 Giro d'Italia, which was held in the Gelderland region of the Netherlands. The percentage of residents with a positive WTP changed from 29.7% before the event to 39.3% immediately after the event, while average WTP increased significantly from euro3.58 to euro4.45, leading to an increase of residents' valuation from euro5.8 million to euro7.1 million. Additionally, following the event in the media and attending the event play an important role in explaining residents' WTP.		[de Boer, Willem I. J.] Univ Groningen, Fac Econ & Business, SOM Res Inst, Groningen, Netherlands; [Koning, Ruud H.; Mierau, Jochen O.] Univ Groningen, Fac Econ & Business, POB 800, NL-9700 AV Groningen, Netherlands; [de Boer, Willem I. J.] HAN Univ Appl Sci, Inst Sport & Exercise Studies, Nijmegen, Netherlands; [de Boer, Willem I. J.] Univ Groningen, Fac Econ & Business, POB 800, NL-9700 AV Groningen, Netherlands								18							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000454941700001	39	Article; Article		
J	Bolen, J. Brandon; Rezek, Jon; Pitts, Joshua D.								Performance Efficiency in NCAA Basketball								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				20	2			218	241		10.1177/1527002517731873			FEB 2019	2019	This study employs data envelopment analysis to examine the efficiency of men's college basketball programs in producing competitive and academically successful teams. Employing inputs measuring team talent, academic ability and experience as well as a program's basketball-specific expenditures and measures of coaching ability and experience, two efficiency measures are estimated, which rank teams according to their technical efficiency in producing each of the outputs desired by athletic departments and universities. These measures of efficiency are useful in allowing administrators to determine how their basketball programs compare to other programs across the country using a more holistic measure of success.		[Bolen, J. Brandon] Mississippi State Univ, Dept Finance & Econ, Mississippi State, MS 39762 USA; [Rezek, Jon] East Carolina Univ, Dept Econ, Greenville, NC 27834 USA; [Pitts, Joshua D.] Kennesaw State Univ, Dept Exercise Sci & Sport Management, Kennesaw, GA USA; [Rezek, Jon] East Carolina Univ, Dept Econ, Greenville, NC 27834 USA								3							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000454941700004	48	Article; Article		
J	Rodrigues, Isabella Martins; Dalla Bernardina, Gustavo Ramos; Sarro, Karine Jacon; Baroni, Guido; Cerveri, Pietro; Silvatti, Amanda Piaia								Thoracoabdominal breathing motion pattern and coordination of professional ballet dancers								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				18	1			51	62		10.1080/14763141.2017.1380223			JAN 2 2019	2019	Ballet training includes exercises of high and moderate intensities, which require breathing control for a good performance. This study describes the thoracoabdominal motion of professional dancers and compares the breathing patterns between professional dancers and non-dancers. Participants of this study were four male and four female (30.33 +/- 4.64 years) professional dancers and four male and four female (22.75 +/- 1.49 years) non-dancers. The participants executed two breathing manoeuvres while sitting motionless: quiet breathing (QB) and vital capacity (VC). The 3D coordinates of 32 retro-reflective markers positioned on the trunk were used to calculate the volume of the superior thorax, inferior thorax and abdomen. Principal component analysis was applied in the volume variation of each trunk compartment to search for dominant independent variables in a breathing motion pattern. The correlation coefficient was calculated to verify the coordination between the compartments during the breathing manoeuvres. A predominance of the superior thorax or abdomen movement was found in both groups. The professional ballet dancers have an efficient breathing pattern and maintain the same breathing pattern in QB and VC manoeuvres. On the other hand, the non-dancers group showed relevant changes of the breathing pattern to respond to a greater breathing effort, like in VC.		[Rodrigues, Isabella Martins; Dalla Bernardina, Gustavo Ramos; Silvatti, Amanda Piaia] Univ Fed Vicosa, Dept Phys Educ, Vicosa, MG, Brazil; [Sarro, Karine Jacon] Univ Estadual Campinas, Fac Phys Educ, Campinas, SP, Brazil; [Baroni, Guido; Cerveri, Pietro] Politecn Milan, Dept Elect Informat & Bioengn, Milan, Italy; [Rodrigues, Isabella Martins] Univ Fed Vicosa, Dept Phys Educ, Vicosa, MG, Brazil								7							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000458883700005	28	Article; Article		
J	DeFroda, Steven F.; Bokshan, Steven L.; Vutescu, Emil Stefan; Sullivan, Kayleigh; Owens, Brett D.								Accuracy of internet images of ligamentous knee injuries								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				47	1			129	131		10.1080/00913847.2018.1533393			JAN 2 2019	2019	Background: The internet is an easily accessible resource for both providers and patients. Despite this, the internet is not peer reviewed, leaving searches subject to inaccuracies, especially with regards to medical information. The purpose of this study was to review internet images of anterior cruciate ligament (ACL), posterior cruciate ligament (PCL), medial collateral ligament (MCL), and lateral collateral ligament (LCL) tears using two popular search engines: Google and Bing. Methods: A search query was performed on both Google and Bing for the following terms: 'ACL tear', 'PCL tear', 'MCL tear' and 'LCL tear'. The first 100 images of each individual search were analyzed by three independent orthopedists. Results: The inter-rater reliability was very good for PCL tear on Bing (Cronbach's alpha = 0.89) and excellent (Cronbach's alpha > 0.9) for the remainder of the search queries. When comparing Google to Bing, the only significant difference occurred in the ACL group, with Bing returning a significantly greater number of correct images 60%, 95% CI: 53.2 - 66.7%) compared to Google (45% correct, 95% CI: 38.1-51.8%), p = 0.034. With regards to the other ligaments Bing was more accurate than Google for PCL (39% versus 38%), and LCL (32% to 30%). Both sites were 48% accurate for MCL tear. Conclusion: Ultimately, our study revealed that physicians should take an active role in making high quality, easy to understand medical resources and anatomic diagrams available to their patients to avoid confusion and enhance understanding when querying the internet for additional information regarding their condition.		[DeFroda, Steven F.; Bokshan, Steven L.; Vutescu, Emil Stefan; Sullivan, Kayleigh; Owens, Brett D.] Brown Univ, Dept Orthopaed, Warren Alpert Sch Med, Providence, RI 02903 USA; [DeFroda, Steven F.] Brown Univ, Dept Orthopaed, Alpert Med Sch, 593 Eddy St, Providence, RI 02903 USA								2							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000457496900019	13	Article; Article		
J	Kuszewski, Michal T.; Gnat, Rafal; Szlachta, Grzegorz; Kaczynska, Magdalena; Knapik, Andrzej								Passive stiffness of the hamstrings and the rectus femoris in persons after an ACL reconstruction								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				47	1			91	95		10.1080/00913847.2018.1527171			JAN 2 2019	2019	Objectives: The aim of the article is to investigate the passive stiffness (PS) of rectus femoris and hamstring muscles working for the knee joint in persons after anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) reconstruction surgery. Methods: Thirty subjects (8 women and 22 men) aged 19-46 (x = 28.2 +/- 7) participated in the investigation; an experimental group comprised 15 persons (4 women and 11 men) who underwent ACL reconstruction surgery. The other persons had no knee injury and described themselves as healthy. All the subjects underwent an investigation of the PS of the hamstrings and the rectus femoris on the injured as well as on the healthy leg. Results: The data shows vital difference in the PS of the hamstring muscles between the healthy and injured limb (p < 0.05), a significant difference in the PS of the rectus femoris (p < 0.001) was noted. Furthermore, the PS level of the hamstring muscles of the operated limb in the experimental group is significantly different to the both legs in control group (p < 0.001). Conclusions: Injury of the ACL results in a considerable increase in passive stiffness of the hamstring and rectus femoris muscles in both the injured leg and the healthy leg.		[Kuszewski, Michal T.; Gnat, Rafal; Szlachta, Grzegorz] Acad Phys Educ, Dept Basics Physiotherapy, Katowice, Poland; [Gnat, Rafal; Szlachta, Grzegorz] Acad Phys Educ, Mot Anal Lab, Str Mikolowska 72b-10, PL-40065 Katowice, Poland; [Kaczynska, Magdalena] NZOZ Ctr Rehabil Reha Vita, Gliwice, Poland; [Knapik, Andrzej] Silesian Med Univ, Healthcare Dept, Katowice, Poland; [Szlachta, Grzegorz] Acad Phys Educ, Mot Anal Lab, Str Mikolowska 72b-10, PL-40065 Katowice, Poland								11							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000457496900016	31	Article; Article		
J	Aschendorf, Paula F.; Zinner, Christoph; Delextrat, Anne; Engelmeyer, Eva; Mester, Joachim								Effects of basketball-specific high-intensity interval training on aerobic performance and physical capacities in youth female basketball players								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				47	1			65	70		10.1080/00913847.2018.1520054			JAN 2 2019	2019	Objective: The goal of this study was to investigate the effects of a 5-week, basketball-specific high-intensity interval training (HIIT) on aerobic performance in youth female basketball players. Methods: Twenty-four athletes (age 15.1 +/- 1.1 years; height: 170 +/- 5.2 cm; body mass: 60.9 +/- 6.0 kg) took part in the investigation. The training group (TG, n = 11) integrated 10 basketball-specific HIIT sessions in their normal team training, the other group (n = 13) continued their team training routine and served as controls (CG). All HIIT sessions contained different basketball-specific drills. Before (pre-) and after the training period (post-) physical fitness was tested. Results: The Yo-yo intermittent recovery test (Yo-yo IR) performance was very likely increased in the TG (26,5 %). No improvements in the Yo-Yo IR performance were found in the CG (-6,8%). Likely positive effects in the TG were evident for the sprint and agility tests with (1.2 +/- 2.4%, ES: 0.25, p = 0.29) and without ball (1.5 +/- 4.6%, ES: 0.34, p = 0.20). The sprint and agility performance with ball significantly decreased in the CG by -2.8 +/- 4.7% (ES: 0.49, p < 0.01). No differences between the groups were found for counter movement jump with arm swing (TG: ES = 0.14, p = 0.45, CG: ES = 0.20 p = 0.18), counter movement jump (TG: ES = 0.05, p = 0.70, CG: ES = 0.19, p = 0.10), squat jump (TG: ES = 0.06, p = 0.72, CG: ES = 0.10, p = 0.54) and long jump (TG: ES = 0.00, p = 0.82, CG: ES = 0.00, p = 0.81). Conclusion: A 5-week, basketball-specific HIIT improves the aerobic performance in young female basketball athletes.		[Aschendorf, Paula F.; Engelmeyer, Eva; Mester, Joachim] German Sport Univ Cologne, German Res Ctr Elite Sport, Sportpk Mungersdorf 6, D-50933 Cologne, Germany; [Zinner, Christoph] Univ Appl Sci Police & Adm Hesse, Dept Sport, Wiesbaden, Germany; [Delextrat, Anne] Oxford Brookes Univ, Dept Sport & Hlth Sci, Oxford, England; [Aschendorf, Paula F.] German Sport Univ Cologne, German Res Ctr Elite Sport, Sportpk Mungersdorf 6, D-50933 Cologne, Germany								36							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000457496900012	43	Article; Article		
J	Morais, Jorge E.; Marinho, Daniel A.; Arellano, Raul; Barbosa, Tiago M.								Start and turn performances of elite sprinters at the 2016 European Championships in swimming								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				18	1			100	114		10.1080/14763141.2018.1435713			JAN 2 2019	2019	The aim of this study was to examine the performance characteristics of male and female finalists in the 100-m distance at the 2016 European Championships in swimming (long-course-metre). The performances of all 64 (32-males and 32-females) were analysed (8 swimmers per event; Freestyle, Backstroke, Breaststroke and Butterfly). A set of start and turn parameters were analysed. In the start main outcome, male swimmers were faster in Butterfly (5.71 +/- 0.14s) and females in Freestyle (6.68 +/- 0.28s). In the turn main outcome, male and female swimmers were faster in Freestyle (males: 9.55 +/- 0.13s; females: 10.78 +/- 0.28s). A significant and strong stroke effect was noted in the start and turn main outcome, in both sexes. In the start plus the turn combined, males and females were faster in Freestyle (males: 15.40 +/- 0.20s; females: 17.45 +/- 0.54s). The start and the turn combined accounted almost one-third of the total race time in all events, and non-significant differences (p > 0.05) were noted across the four swim strokes. Once this research made evident the high relevance of start and turns, it is suggested that coaches and swimmers should dedicate an expressive portion of the training perfecting these actions.		[Morais, Jorge E.; Marinho, Daniel A.] Univ Beira Interior, Fac Social & Human Sci, Dept Sport Sci, Covilha, Portugal; [Barbosa, Tiago M.] Polytech Inst Braganca, Super Sch Educ, Dept Sport Sci, Braganca, Portugal; [Barbosa, Tiago M.] Nanyang Technol Univ, Natl Inst Educ, Singapore, Singapore; [Morais, Jorge E.; Marinho, Daniel A.; Barbosa, Tiago M.] Univ Tras Os Montes & Alto Douro, Res Ctr Sports Hlth & Human Dev, Vila Real, Portugal; [Arellano, Raul] Univ Granada, Dept Phys & Sports Educ, Granada, Spain; [Morais, Jorge E.] Univ Beira Interior, Fac Social & Human Sci, Dept Sport Sci, Covilha, Portugal; [Morais, Jorge E.] Univ Tras Os Montes & Alto Douro, Res Ctr Sports Hlth & Human Dev, Vila Real, Portugal								101							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000458883700009	38	Article; Article		
J	Lee, Younghan; Kim, Mi-Lyang; Koo, Jakeun; Won, Hyung-Joong								Sport volunteer service performance, image formation, and service encounters								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				20	2			307	320		10.1108/IJSMS-05-2018-0047			2019	2019	Purpose - The purpose of this paper is to examine the link between sport event volunteer service performance and sport spectator experience that leads to future intentions. Design/methodology/approach - Subjects were the international visitors at a mega sporting event in South Korea (n = 431). The sample was randomly drawn based on convenience sampling method. Partial least squares structural equation modeling was utilized to test the hypotheses. The adequacy and statistical significance of the path models were confirmed by individual indicator loadings, average variance explained, bootstrap t-statistics and convergent validity. Findings - Volunteer service performance significantly predicted event satisfaction, event image, and host city image and indirectly influenced intentions to revisit the event and host city. Event image predicted host city image, event satisfaction and intention to revisit the event. Host city image predicted event satisfaction and intention to revisit the host city. Event satisfaction predicted both intentions to revisit the event and the host city. Originality/value - Sport event volunteers are in direct contact with spectators; therefore the performance of volunteers' service may have an impact on establishing event and host city images perceived by visitors at the event. The research findings suggest that sport event volunteer performance positively affects image formation and further induce international visitors to revisit both the event and the host city. One of the key findings includes the important role of event satisfaction in the association between volunteer performance, image formation and future behavior.		[Lee, Younghan] Mississippi State Univ, Starkville, MS USA; [Kim, Mi-Lyang] Soonchunhyang Univ, Asan, South Korea; [Koo, Jakeun] Texas Southern Univ, Houston, TX 77004 USA; [Won, Hyung-Joong] Ewha Womans Univ, Seoul, South Korea; [Kim, Mi-Lyang] Soonchunhyang Univ, Asan, South Korea								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000467879300007	52	Article; Article		
J	Lupinek, Joshua M.								Tracing the ABC's of brand community								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				20	2			291	306		10.1108/IJSMS-09-2017-0103			2019	2019	Purpose - The purpose of this paper is to add a needed sport foundation for the brand community conversation evolution within the International Journal of Sports Marketing and Sponsorship (Popp et al., 2016; Richelieu, 2008; Trail et al., 2016) from the spark of Gladden and Funk's (2001) brand association and loyalty in sport. Design/methodology/approach - This paper traces the evolution of brand community research from its beginnings in the general business literature to the current brand community research in sport marketing today. Muniz and O'Guinn (2001) define brand communities as a specialized and non-geographically bound community based around a set of structured social relationships amongst admirers of a brand and are often recognized as the most integral relationship component of consumers to brands (Muge and Ozge, 2013). Findings - Media transcends geography and brand communities will continue to transcend geography to the boundaries of mass media. Practical implications - With this growing importance on attachment to brand community (ABC) through mass media, or attachment team in the sport context, further exploration on attachment variables is critical for the success of the next evolutionary stage of brand communities. Originality/value - An ABC framework in the sport setting is proposed through multidisciplinary variables gathered in a review of brand community literature to address the unique attachment perspectives of sport consumers.		[Lupinek, Joshua M.] Univ Alaska, Sch Management, Fairbanks, AK 99701 USA; [Lupinek, Joshua M.] Univ Alaska, Sch Management, Fairbanks, AK 99701 USA								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000467879300006	88	Article; Article		
J	Cho, Heetae; Lee, Hyun-Woo; Pyun, Do Young								The influence of stadium environment on attendance intentions in spectator sport The moderating role of team loyalty								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				20	2			276	290		10.1108/IJSMS-04-2017-0025			2019	2019	Purpose - The purpose of this paper is to examine the impact of perceived environmental quality of the stadium on fans' future intentions to attend a game by highlighting the moderating effect of team loyalty. Design/methodology/approach - Using latent moderated structural equations modeling, this study tested the direct impacts of stadium factors on consumers' desire to stay and revisit intentions and the moderation effects of team loyalty based on Mehrabian and Russell's environmental psychology behavioral model. Findings - The results showed significant direct effects of team loyalty and desire to stay on revisit intentions. The stadium environment influenced desire to stay and revisit intentions only by the interactions with team loyalty. More specifically, higher loyalty led to higher desire to stay and revisit intentions, whereas fans' positive experience of stadium environment intensified the effect. Originality/value - The authors highlight the significant role of desire to stay on revisit intentions by incorporating the cognitive-affective system of human behavior. In addition, this study provides essential information for identifying the interaction effects of environmental factors and team loyalty on consumer behavior in sport settings.		[Cho, Heetae] Nanyang Technol Univ, Dept Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Singapore, Singapore; [Lee, Hyun-Woo] Georgia Southern Univ, Sch Hlth & Kinesiol, Statesboro, GA 30460 USA; [Lee, Hyun-Woo] Texas A&M Univ, Div Sport Management, College Stn, TX 77843 USA; [Pyun, Do Young] Loughborough Univ, Loughborough, Leics, England; [Lee, Hyun-Woo] Georgia Southern Univ, Sch Hlth & Kinesiol, Statesboro, GA 30460 USA; [Lee, Hyun-Woo] Texas A&M Univ, Div Sport Management, College Stn, TX 77843 USA								45							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000467879300005	72	Article; Article		
J	Bagramian, Ruben; Madill, Judith; O'Reilly, Norm; Deshpande, Sameer; Rhodes, Ryan E.; Tremblay, Mark; Berry, Tanya; Faulkner, Guy								Evaluation of sport participation objectives within a health-focussed social marketing sponsorship								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				20	2			206	223		10.1108/IJSMS-01-2018-0011			2019	2019	Purpose - The purpose of this paper is to empirically test O'Reilly and Madill's (2012) process model to assess social marketing elements of a multi-year partnership between Coca-Cola Canada and a physical activity microgrant program, known as Teen Challenge, managed by ParticipACTION, a Canadian not-for-profit organization that champions sport and physical activity participation. ParticipACTION's Teen Challenge is a multi-year initiative that was developed in 2008 and involves over 5,800 community organizations (COs) and over 500,000 Canadian teens across the nation (ParticipACTION, 2016). Design/methodology/approach - A series of ten hypotheses related to the evaluation are tested using longitudinal data from event participants over a five-year period from 2009 to 2013. Findings - The study revealed that sponsor and sponsee shared objectives around sport participation, including the three found in this study. Practically, this is a positive result for sport participation properties who might now consider this as part of a sponsorship sales strategy. The research found that both Coca-Cola Canada and ParticipACTION have the following shared objectives in this particular sponsorship: motivate and support youth to get active and live a healthy life; remove barriers that youth face in getting physically active; and encourage more COs to be involved in the program. Conceptually, this finding extends the discussion of shared social marketing objectives in sponsorship proposed by Madill and O'Reilly (2010). Research limitations/implications - The findings support the sponsorship literature, in suggesting that shared objectives among sponsorship partners are important for the sponsorship to achieve successful outcomes (Cornwell et al., 2001). Shared sponsorship objectives can be utilized as a strategic tool for the sponsee to demonstrate the effectiveness of the program and to build a long-term relationship. The results of the logistic regression analysis indicate that COs which viewed partners' collaboration as positive agreed that the Teen Challenge program made physical activity more accessible and affordable for youth. Practical implications - This study provides several important implications for non-profit organizations that aim to establish an effective social marketing campaign. One way for non-profit organizations to build a strong relationship with sponsors was through positive collaboration where the two partners work together (e.g. activation) to maximize the sponsorship's effectiveness. First, it increased youth participation in the Teen Challenge program and made it affordable for teens to participate in other physical activity programs. Second, it enhanced Coca-Cola's image as supporters of active lifestyle in the eyes of COs. Finally, it affected the likelihood that COs would recommend the program. Social implications - Results of the survey of COs that are registered with the program provides us with another important finding that positive partner collaboration is only one component of overall effectiveness. Another component would be to take action to communicate to COs that positive collaboration indeed took place in the sponsorship. One way to achieve this goal is to demonstrate to COs the importance of funding that the sponsor provides as well as the impact of sponsorship partners' positive collaboration on the overall program. The authors also found that sponsorship partners' positive collaboration in the delivery of the Teen Challenge program played an important role in whether COs recommend the program to others. Originality/value - The results of this research contribute to the evaluation of the sponsorship of a health-oriented social marketing sponsorship of a sport participation property or sponsee (ParticipACTION) and a major brand as sponsor (Coca-Cola).		[Bagramian, Ruben; Madill, Judith] Univ Ottawa, Telfer Sch Management, Dept Mkt, Ottawa, ON, Canada; [O'Reilly, Norm] Univ Guelph, Coll Business & Econ, Guelph, ON, Canada; [Deshpande, Sameer] Griffith Univ, Griffith Business Sch, Dept Mkt, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [Rhodes, Ryan E.] Univ Victoria, Sch Exercise Sci Phys & Hlth Educ, Victoria, BC, Canada; [Tremblay, Mark] Univ Ottawa, Sch Epidemiol & Publ Hlth, Ottawa, ON, Canada; [Berry, Tanya] Univ Alberta, Fac Kinesiol Sport & Recreat, Edmonton, AB, Canada; [Faulkner, Guy] Univ British Columbia, Sch Kinesiol, Vancouver, BC, Canada; [O'Reilly, Norm] Univ Guelph, Coll Business & Econ, Guelph, ON, Canada								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000467879300001	51	Article; Article		
J	Teo, Li Xin; Leng, Ho Keat; Phua, Yi Xian Philip								Marketing on Instagram Social influence and image quality on perception of quality and purchase intention								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				20	2			321	332		10.1108/IJSMS-04-2018-0028			2019	2019	Purpose - Social network sites are becoming more visual-centric. The purpose of this paper is to examine the effectiveness of visual social network sites as a marketing platform. Design/methodology/approach - This paper comprises two experiments. The first experiment sought to examine the effect of social influence; while the second experiment examined the effect of image quality on the perception of quality and purchase intention. Findings - The first experiment showed that social influence did not affect perceived quality or purchase intention. In the second experiment, a one-way between-groups multivariate analysis of covariance (MANCOVA) adjusting for sport involvement showed a statistically significant difference between the two groups. Respondents in the experimental group reported higher levels of perceived quality (adjusted M = 3.68) and purchase intention (adjusted M = 3.23) when compared to the control group's perceived quality (adjusted M = 3.12) and purchase intention (adjusted M = 2.17). Research limitations/implications - One of the limitations of this study is that it only examined the effects through a single social network site, i.e. Instagram. As there are other visual-centric social network sites, such as Tumblr and Pinterest, which operate slightly different from Instagram, it remains to be established how such effects vary across these social network sites. Practical implications - The results suggest that social influence on Instagram is limited and marketers should invest in images of high quality when marketing on visual social network sites. Originality/value - While there are many studies examining the effectiveness of marketing on social network sites, these studies have primarily focussed on earlier social network sites, such as Facebook. Newer social network sites that are more visual-centric, such as Instagram, are different from earlier social network sites and studied to a lesser extent. This study adds insights on the marketing effectiveness of visual-centric social network sites and deepens the understanding on marketing in general on social media.		[Teo, Li Xin; Leng, Ho Keat; Phua, Yi Xian Philip] Nanyang Technol Univ, Singapore, Singapore; [Leng, Ho Keat] Nanyang Technol Univ, Singapore, Singapore								56							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000467879300008	59	Article; Article		
J	Bolger, Linda A.; Bolger, Lisa E.; O'Neill, Cian; Coughlan, Edward; Lacey, Sean; O'Brien, Wesley; Burns, Con								Fundamental Movement Skill Proficiency and Health Among a Cohort of Irish Primary School Children								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				90	1			24	35		10.1080/02701367.2018.1563271			2019	2019	Purpose: This study aimed to investigate the relationship between fundamental movement skills (FMS) and markers of health among a cohort of Irish primary school children. Methods: Participants (N =296, mean age: 7.99 +/- 2.02years) were senior infant (n =149, mean age: 6.02 +/- 0.39years) and 4th class (n =147, mean age: 9.97 +/- 0.40years) students from three primary schools in Cork, Ireland. FMS proficiency (TGMD-2) and markers of health (BMI percentile, waist circumference percentile, blood pressure percentiles, resting heart rate, cardiorespiratory fitness, objectively measured physical activity; PA) measurements were recorded. Correlation and hierarchical stepwise multiple linear regression analyses were conducted to investigate the relationship between FMS and markers of health. Results: A small, positive relationship was found between FMS (Gross Motor Quotient; GMQ) and cardiorespiratory fitness with small negative correlations between GMQ and 550 m time SDS among 6-year-olds (r(129)=-.286, p <.05) and 10-year-olds (r(132)=-.340, p <.05). A moderate, positive correlation was found between GMQ and light PA (r(71)=.400, p <.05). Small positive correlations were revealed between GMQ and moderate PA (r(71)=.259, p <.05) and between GMQ and total PA (r(71)=.355, p <.05). After adjusting for age, sex, the interaction effect of age and sex, and school attended, FMS explained 15.9% and 24.8% of the variance in 550 m time SDS among 6- and 10-year-olds, respectively, and 6% and 6.5% of the variance in light PA and moderate PA, respectively. After adjusting for age and sex, FMS explained 11.6% of the variance in total PA. Conclusion: A wide range of FMS is important for children's cardiorespiratory fitness and PA.		[Bolger, Linda A.; Bolger, Lisa E.; O'Neill, Cian; Coughlan, Edward; Lacey, Sean; Burns, Con] Cork Inst Technol, Rossa Ave, Bishopstown, Cork, Ireland; [O'Brien, Wesley] Univ Coll Cork, Cork, Ireland; [Bolger, Linda A.] Cork Inst Technol, Rossa Ave, Bishopstown, Cork, Ireland								15							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000461567000004	41	Article; Article		
J	Blake, Julian; Fourie, Sonja; Goldman, Michael								The relationship between sports sponsorships and corporate financial returns in South Africa								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				20	1			2	25		10.1108/IJSMS-12-2016-0088			2019	2019	Purpose Sponsorship is a major contributor to income in the South African sports arena, and is a critical component allowing sports unions to remain financially viable and sustainable. Sports sponsoring companies, however, have long questioned the financial returns generated from these ventures. The purpose of this paper is to understand whether financial returns of companies with sports sponsorship in South Africa are significantly different to those without. This research was conducted on Johannesburg Stock Exchange (JSE) listed companies that sponsored sport consistently between 2000 and 2015 for a period of two years. A quantitative methodology was employed whereby share price, revenue and earnings growth were analysed, comparing firms that did not adopt strategies involving sports sponsorships to those that did. Design/methodology/approach A quantitative methodology was employed, whereby share price, revenue and earnings growth were analysed, comparing firms that did not adopt strategies involving sports sponsorships to those that did. South Africa is an emerging market and a member of the BRICS Forum ranked 14th in the sport sponsorship market globally (Sport Marketing Frontiers, 2011), becoming increasingly dominant in the global sports industry (Goldman, 2011). The population consisted of JSE-listed Main Board and alternative exchange companies that participated in any form of consistent sports sponsorship in the given time frame: 2000-2015, where the company's share price, revenue and earnings per share (EPS) data for the period were available from the INET BFA database. The JSE is ranked 17th in terms of market capitalisation (over $1 trillion) in the world, being the largest stock exchange on the African continent with over $30bn being traded on average monthly. Multiple journals today publish research done on the JSE, for example the International Journal of Sports Marketing and Sponsorship, Investment Analysts Journal and the South African Journal of Accounting Research. This stock exchange is 125 years old and has over 400 listed companies of which 358 are domestic (Kruger et al., 2014). Findings Results show that companies involved in sports sponsorship during the period analysed did not experience enhanced share price or revenue growth in excess of those companies not involved in sports sponsorship. As a whole, sports sponsoring companies did however experience greater income growth (EPS) than those companies not involved in sports sponsorship. Enhanced revenue growth was found in the consumer services sector, indicating that sport sponsorship in this sector drives brand image and recall resulting in enhanced revenues. These results though indicate that a multitude of differing objectives may exist for companies engaging with sports sponsorship, with increased sales not the singular objective. In general it is concluded that sports sponsorship is considered to achieve a broad spectrum of outcomes that are likely to contribute to increased profitability. Research limitations/implications The relatively small size of 40 firms on the JSE in the South African sports sponsorship market is a limitation for this research. The purely quantitative approach limited the ability to gain the required level of insight into those sectors with small samples, which a qualitative study would reveal. SABMiller as example could not be analysed against its sector peers, given that it is one of the most prominent and consistent sports sponsors in South Africa across all major sporting codes. The telecommunications sector was represented entirely by companies that were involved in sports sponsorship and, hence, no in-depth comparison could be conducted within this sector. Vodacom, a major sponsor of sport in South Africa, could not be compared with its peers utilising purely financial and statistical methods. Cell C is one of the most prominent sponsors of rugby in South Africa, through its title sponsorship of the Cell C Sharks, and was not included in this study as it is not listed on the JSE. It is suggested that such companies should be included in a qualitative study approach. Practical implications The results of the Mann-Whitney U test for the consumer services and financial sectors confirm no significant difference in EPS growth for companies utilising consistent sports sponsorship as part of their marketing mix to those that do not. The consumer services sector has seen above-average revenue growth from sports sponsorship compared with its sector peers; however, the sector was unable to convert this increased revenue growth into increased profits, suggesting that the cost of sponsoring, as well as the operating costs associated with sports sponsorship, counteract any growth in revenue. Social implications The sample of sports-sponsoring companies experienced a larger annual mean EPS growth rate of 30.6 per cent compared to the remaining JSE Main Board companies which grew EPS annually at 27.4 per cent. The results of the Mann-Whitney U test confirm a significant difference in EPS growth for companies utilising consistent sports sponsorship as part of their marketing mix. From a practical interpretive perspective, this result reveals that those companies in South Africa involved in sports sponsorship consistently attain greater than market-related profit growth. This poses some interesting points for discussion, given that revenue growth was not statistically different, which suggests that many sponsors are utilising the sponsorships for purposes other than sales growths that result in a profitable outcome. The potential range of options is large but would likely comprise the creation of stronger supplier relationships, resulting in optimised business inputs. Sponsors might be utilising sponsorships to improve corporate social status, which assists them in creating regulatory compliance, in some instances. Additionally, these sponsorships may be utilised to maintain key client relationships that provide the highest levels of profitability, and whilst this might not grow revenue through new business acquisition, it may result in higher profitability as a result of a loyal and stable customer base. Originality/value Much of the available research focusses on the sponsorship of specific sporting events and the share price impact thereof at specific occasions like the announcement, renewal and termination. Where research is conducted across a multitude of sporting events and codes, this predominantly focusses on share price performance only, with varying and somewhat inconclusive results. There is little research focussing on wider, more comprehensive sets of sponsored events and sporting codes, and that seeks to provide an understanding of financial returns for sponsoring properties. In a study of more than 50 US-based corporations it was found that, as a group, corporations which consistently invested in sports sponsorships outperformed market averages, and that those with higher sponsorship spend achieved higher returns (Jensen and Hsu, 2011). The study utilised descriptive statistics. More analysis, utilising detailed statistical analysis, is required to better understand the effects of sponsorship on the wider set of variables analysed. In this case, a five-year compound annual growth rate was calculated for stock price appreciation, total revenue, net income and EPS, and analysed descriptively with only means and standard deviation. Measurement of such variables assists with an understanding of the materialized results of sponsorship as opposed to much of the work in this field, which analyses market reactions to sponsorship announcements.		[Blake, Julian; Fourie, Sonja] Gordon Inst Business Sci, Johannesburg, South Africa; [Goldman, Michael] Univ San Francisco, Dept Sport Management, San Francisco, CA 94117 USA; [Fourie, Sonja] Gordon Inst Business Sci, Johannesburg, South Africa								15							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000457643100001	39	Article; Article		
J	Kashif, Muhammad; Fernando, P. M. P.; Wijenayake, S. I.								Blinded by the sand of its burrowing? Examining fans' intentions to follow one-day cricket on TV with a moderating effect of social influence								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				20	1			81	108		10.1108/IJSMS-08-2017-0094			2019	2019	Purpose The purpose of this paper is to investigate the effect of patriotism, nostalgia, drama and excitement of the game, and interest in star players to predict fans' intentions to follow one-day cricket in near future. Furthermore, social influence is positioned as a moderator to enrich the understanding of fans' motives to follow one-day cricket. Design/methodology/approach The data are collected by means of a cross-sectional survey conducted among 609 university students enroled in Pakistani and Sri Lankan universities. The collected data are analysed by employing a structural equation modelling procedures to reach meaningful conclusions. Findings The variables of patriotism, nostalgic associations, excitement and drama of the game, and interest in star players are found to positively relate to the fans' intentions to follow one-day cricket in near future. However, the moderating effects of social influence only moderated with interest in star players, which has practical and theoretical implications. Originality/value The study is an original contribution to the field of sports marketing. The proposed relationships are based on social identity theory paradigm. Furthermore, the moderating effects of social influence and a multi-country data are unique to this study. Finally, in previous studies, football fans' motivation and test-match cricket fans' motivations are studied, hence one-day cricket as a context is also unique to this study.		[Kashif, Muhammad] GIFT Univ, Fac Management Sci, Gujranwala, Pakistan; [Fernando, P. M. P.; Wijenayake, S. I.] Univ Kelaniya, Dept Mkt Management, Fac Commerce & Management Studies, Kelaniya, Sri Lanka; [Kashif, Muhammad] GIFT Univ, Fac Management Sci, Gujranwala, Pakistan								12							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000457643100005	133	Article; Article		
J	Santos, Thiago Oliveira; Correia, Abel; Biscaia, Rui; Pegoraro, Ann								Examining fan engagement through social networking sites								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				20	1			163	183		10.1108/IJSMS-05-2016-0020			2019	2019	Purpose The purpose of this paper is to conceptualise and measure the construct of fan engagement through social networking sites (SNS). Design/methodology/approach A multi-stage procedure was completed to validate the proposed fan engagement through SNS model with three first-order constructs (fan-to-fan relationships, team-to-fan relationships and fan co-creation). First, a preliminary analysis of the proposed items to capture fan engagement through SNS was conducted through expert review. Second, an assessment of item reliability and construct validity was completed using confirmatory factor analysis (CFA). Finally, CFA and subsequent structural equation model were conducted to review the psychometric properties and to test the relationships between the proposed construct with online and offline behavioural intentions. Findings The results indicate good psychometric properties of the constructs of fan-to-fan relationships, team-to-fan relationships and fan co-creation, and these three constructs were significantly related with the second-order construct of fan engagement through SNS. Additionally, the construct of fan engagement through SNS was significantly related to both online and offline behavioural intentions. Practical implications These findings suggest that teams should use SNS to interact with fans, to allow fans to share experiences and to involve fans in co-creation processes aimed at increasing engagement and subsequent positive behavioural intentions towards the team. Originality/value This study extends previous research by measuring fan engagement through SNS as a multidimensional construct, and testing its predictive effect on fans' online and offline behavioural intentions. Several suggestions for future studies and strategies for increasing fan engagement can be drawn from this study.		[Santos, Thiago Oliveira] Univ Fed Parana, Programa Posgrad Educ Fis, Dept Educ Fis, Curitiba, Parana, Brazil; [Correia, Abel] Univ Lisbon, Fac Motricidade Humana, Lisbon, Portugal; [Biscaia, Rui] Coventry Univ, Sch Mkt & Management, Fac Business & Law, Coventry, W Midlands, England; [Pegoraro, Ann] Laurentian Univ, Inst Sport Mkt, Sch Sports Adm, Fac Management, Sudbury, ON, Canada; [Santos, Thiago Oliveira] Univ Fed Parana, Programa Posgrad Educ Fis, Dept Educ Fis, Curitiba, Parana, Brazil								69							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000457643100009	103	Article; Article		
J	Burton, Nick; Chadwick, Simon								European football supporter attitudes toward ambush marketing								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				20	1			143	162		10.1108/IJSMS-10-2017-0107			2019	2019	Purpose The purpose of this paper is to explore attitudes towards ambush marketing at the 2016 Union of European Football Associations European Championships, seeking to examine fan affect towards ambush marketing. Design/methodology/approach A 24-item survey questionnaire was constructed, exploring consumers' general cognition and affection of ambush marketing; following Dickson et al.'s (2015) design, industry-specific attitudes were canvassed, assessing supporters' views of beer and gambling industry ambush marketers. Findings Results indicate that fans appear to be marginally more forgiving of ambush practices from beer or gambling brands than across ambushing more generally, yet a prevailing antipathy towards ambush marketing from an ethical perspective was observed. Importantly, however, the study's findings suggest that industry-specific advertising regulations bear little impact on fan perspectives. Practical implications The study's results bear notable implications for marketing theory and practice: for ambushing brands, this suggests that they are rather less likely to be have a disruptive effect on events and their official sponsors. For official sponsors, a level of threat from ambushers nevertheless remains as it would appear consumers do not have strong views about the practice of ambushing. Originality/value The study's methods build upon and extend previous studies into consumer attitudes towards ambush marketing, specifically focusing on the perceptions and affect of fans in lieu of more empirically generalisable consumer populations. Given the target audiences of sponsors and ambush marketers, this emphasis on fan attitudes represents an important direction in ambush affect research.		[Burton, Nick] Brock Univ, Dept Sport Management, St Catharines, ON, Canada; [Chadwick, Simon] Univ Salford, Dept Sports Enterprise, Salford, Lancs, England; [Burton, Nick] Brock Univ, Dept Sport Management, St Catharines, ON, Canada								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000457643100008	59	Article; Article		
J	Rieping, Tais; Furtado, Guilherme Eustaquio; Letieri, Rubens Vinicius; Chupel, Matheus Uba; Colado, Juan C.; Hogervorst, Eef; Filaire, Edith; Miranda Botelho Teixeira, Ana Maria; Ferreira, Jose Pedro								Effects of Different Chair-Based Exercises on Salivary Biomarkers and Functional Autonomy in Institutionalized Older Women								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				90	1			36	45		10.1080/02701367.2018.1563272			2019	2019	Purpose: The aim of this study was to test the effects of chair-based exercise programs on salivary stress hormones, physical fitness, and functional autonomy of institutionalized older women. Method: In total, 47 participants (80 +/- 8.04years old) were recruited and allocated into three groups: chair-based aerobic exercises (CAE, n =19), chair-based elastic-band strength exercises (CSE, n =15), and a control group (CG, n =13). A 14-week exercise intervention was done for the CAE and CSE groups, two times per week, in no consecutive days. Members of the CG did not participate in any type of exercise but kept their regular lifestyle. Fear of falling, autonomy, physical fitness, salivary cortisol, and alpha-amylase levels were assessed before and after the intervention. Results: The CAE group improved upper and lower body strength, agility-dynamic balance, and autonomy, with fear of falling decreasing significantly (p <.05, moderate effect size). Both exercise groups showed a trend toward an increase in salivary alpha-amylase levels (CAE=43%, d =.31, and CSE=44%, d =.41). Conclusion: Both exercise programs were able to improve functional autonomy, even in elders older than 80years of age. It might be interesting to investigate the effectiveness of combining both aerobic and strength exercises in a unique protocol. The modulation effect of exercise in the hormonal responses needs to be further explored.		[Rieping, Tais; Furtado, Guilherme Eustaquio; Letieri, Rubens Vinicius; Chupel, Matheus Uba; Miranda Botelho Teixeira, Ana Maria; Ferreira, Jose Pedro] Univ Coimbra, Coimbra, Portugal; [Letieri, Rubens Vinicius] Fed Univ Tocantins UFT, Palmas, Brazil; [Chupel, Matheus Uba] Univ Contestado, Mafra, Brazil; [Colado, Juan C.] Univ Valencia, Valencia, Spain; [Hogervorst, Eef] Loughborough Univ, Loughborough, Leics, England; [Filaire, Edith] Univ Paris Sud, Orsay, France; [Letieri, Rubens Vinicius] Univ Coimbra, Res Unit Sport & Phys Act CIDAF UID PTD 04213 201, Pavilhao 3, P-3040156 Coimbra, Portugal								24							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000461567000005	35	Article; Article		
J	Reichert, Thais; Bagatini, Natalia Carvalho; Simmer, Nicole Monticelli; Meinerz, Andressa Pellegrini; Barroso, Bruna Machado; Garcia Prado, Alexandre Konig; Delevatti, Rodrigo Sudatti; Costa, Rochelle Rocha; Kanitz, Ana Carolina; Martins Kruel, Luiz Fernando								Effects of Different Models of Water-Based Resistance Training on Muscular Function of Older Women								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				90	1			46	53		10.1080/02701367.2018.1563273			2019	2019	Purpose: To compare the effects of three water-based resistance trainings on neuromuscular parameters of older women. Method: Thirty-six women were randomized to groups: simple set of 30seconds (1x30s, 66.41 +/- 4.71years, n =12), multiple sets of 10seconds (3x10s, 66.50 +/- 4.74years, n =11), and simple set of 10seconds (1x10s, 65.23 +/- 3.93years, n =13). Maximal isometric strength concomitantly with neuromuscular activity during extension and flexion knee was evaluated. In the same exercises, rate of force development at different time intervals was measured. Finally, functional capacity was assessed. Results: All trainings promoted similar improvements in the rate of force develpment of extension (effect size RFD 50ms: 1x30s .49, 3x10s .67, 1x10s .65; ES RFD 100ms: 1x30s .76, 3x10s .80, 1x10s .63; ES RFD 250ms: 1x30s .31, 3x10s .49, 1x10s .37) and flexion knee (ES RFD 50ms: 1x30s .59, 3x10s .31, 1x10s .48; ES RFD 100ms: 1x30s .41, 3x10s .44, 1x10s .42; ES RFD 250ms: 1x30s .57, 3x10s .36, 1x10s .43; ES RFD maximal: 1x30s .63, 3x10s .23, 1x10s .26), however only the 3x10s group improved the performance in the 8-foot up-and-go test (ES 3x10s: .93, 1x30: .39, 1x10s: .23). There was a maintenance of the isometric force and neuromuscular activity, except for the activity of the rectus femoris that showed an increase after training in all groups (ES 3x10s: .04, 1x30: .36, 1x10s: .50). Conclusion: Water-based resistance training using simple or multiple sets promotes the same gains in rapid strength, however only multiple sets induced improvement on functional capacity.		[Reichert, Thais; Bagatini, Natalia Carvalho; Simmer, Nicole Monticelli; Meinerz, Andressa Pellegrini; Barroso, Bruna Machado; Garcia Prado, Alexandre Konig; Delevatti, Rodrigo Sudatti; Costa, Rochelle Rocha; Kanitz, Ana Carolina; Martins Kruel, Luiz Fernando] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Sul, Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil; [Garcia Prado, Alexandre Konig] Univ Fed Mato Grosso, Cuiaba, Brazil; [Delevatti, Rodrigo Sudatti] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Florianopolis, SC, Brazil; [Kanitz, Ana Carolina] Univ Fed Uberlandia, Uberlandia, MG, Brazil; [Reichert, Thais] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Sul, Swimming Ctr, Phys Educ Physiotherapy & Dance Sch, Felizardo St 750, BR-90690200 Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000461567000006	31	Article; Article		
J	Raimundo, Joao A. G.; Turnes, Tiago; de Aguiar, Rafael A.; Lisboa, Felipe D.; Loch, Thiago; Ribeiro, Guilherme; Caputo, Fabrizio								The Severe Exercise Domain Amplitude: A Comparison Between Endurance Runners and Cyclists								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				90	1			3	13		10.1080/02701367.2018.1549356			2019	2019	Purpose: Metabolic perturbation and on-kinetics are potential modifiers of fatigue and vary in importance depending on the exercise task. Thus, performance fatigability during high-intensity exercise seems to be exercise mode dependent, affecting tolerance in the severe domain. However, the effects of exercise mode on severe domain amplitude are still unknown. The aims of this study were to compare the severe domain amplitude in endurance runners and cyclists and to verify its possible determinants. Methods: Ten runners and eleven cyclists were tested to determine max, maximal velocity/power output of incremental test (vmax/pmax), critical velocity/power (CV/CP), distance/work above CV/CP (D/W), and the highest velocity/power output which max is attained during constant exercise (V-HIGH/P-HIGH). The severe domain amplitude was considered as V-HIGH/P-HIGH relative to CV/CP. Results: When normalized by vmax/pmax, although V-HIGH and P-HIGH were similar, CV (89.0 +/- 2.2% vmax) was higher than CP (84.0 +/- 4.1% pmax; p <.05; ES=1.51). Consequently, the severe domain amplitude was higher in cyclists (153.6 +/- 14.4% CP vs. 137.2 +/- 14.6% CV; p <.05; ES=1.13). Runners presented faster on-kinetics than cyclists at V-HIGH/P-HIGH. The severe domain amplitude was correlated with D (r =.65) and W (r =.71), but not with on-kinetics. Conclusions: Cyclists have a lower CP (%pmax) and a greater severe domain amplitude than runners, providing a greater range of intensities for attainment of max. Furthermore, the severe domain amplitude appears to be linked to finite energy reserves, but unrelated to on-kinetics.		[Raimundo, Joao A. G.; Turnes, Tiago; de Aguiar, Rafael A.; Lisboa, Felipe D.; Loch, Thiago; Ribeiro, Guilherme; Caputo, Fabrizio] Santa Catarina State Univ, Florianopolis, SC, Brazil; [Turnes, Tiago] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Florianopolis, SC, Brazil; [Raimundo, Joao A. G.] Santa Catarina State Univ, Lab Pesquisas Desempenho Humano, CEFID UDESC, Rua Pascoal Simone 358, BR-88080350 Florianopolis, SC, Brazil								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000461567000002	34	Article; Article		
J	Rockerbie, Duane W.; Easton, Stephen T.								Of Bricks and Bats: New Stadiums, Talent Supply, and Team Performance in Major League Baseball								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				20	1			3	24		10.1177/1527002517723049			JAN 2019	2019	This article considers whether publicly financed new facility investments encourage professional sports team owners to increase their investments in costly talent. We develop a model of a sports league that incorporates publicly financed facility investments, the unique characteristics of the talent market, and revenue sharing to explore the complementarity between new facility amenities, the team budget decision, and team performance. Our empirical results suggest that publicly financed new stadiums do little to improve team performance, not due to restrictions in the talent market, but rather due to a lack of fan response.		[Rockerbie, Duane W.] Univ Lethbridge, Dept Econ, 4401 Univ Dr, Lethbridge, AB T1K 3M4, Canada; [Easton, Stephen T.] Simon Fraser Univ, Dept Econ, Burnaby, BC, Canada; [Rockerbie, Duane W.] Univ Lethbridge, Dept Econ, 4401 Univ Dr, Lethbridge, AB T1K 3M4, Canada								4							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000453418200001	21	Article; Article		
J	Insler, Michael A.; Karam, Jimmy								Do Sports Crowd Out Books? The Impact of Intercollegiate Athletic Participation on Grades								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				20	1			115	153		10.1177/1527002517716975			JAN 2019	2019	We investigate the influence of intercollegiate athletic participation on grades using data from the U.S. Naval Academy. Athletic participation is an endogenous decision with respect to educational outcomes. To identify a causal effect, we develop an instrument via the Academy's random assignment of students into peer groups. Instrumental variable (IVs) estimates suggest that sports participation modestly reduces recruited athletes' grades. This finding has implications beyond college, as we also show that grades-not athletic participation-are most strongly associated with postcollegiate outcomes such as military tenure and promotion rates.		[Insler, Michael A.] US Naval Acad, Dept Econ, 589 McNair Rd,Mail Stop 10D, Annapolis, MD 21402 USA; [Karam, Jimmy] US Navy, Poway, CA USA; [Insler, Michael A.] US Naval Acad, Dept Econ, 589 McNair Rd,Mail Stop 10D, Annapolis, MD 21402 USA								7							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000453418200006	19	Article; Article		
J	Caruso, Raul; Addesa, Francesco; Di Domizio, Marco								The Determinants of the TV Demand for Soccer: Empirical Evidence on Italian Serie A for the Period 2008-2015								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				20	1			25	49		10.1177/1527002517717298			JAN 2019	2019	This article investigates the determinants of the TV audience for Italian soccer in seven Serie A seasons (2008-2009 to 2014-2015). Italian viewers have committed behavior and that outcome uncertainty does not have an impact on the TV audience. When choosing whether to watch a match involving teams other than their favorite team, Italian consumers are attracted by both the aggregate quantity of talent and the matches involving teams at the top of the table. An increase in the TV demand is driven by an enhancement in the performance of the top clubs and in the quality of the entertainment.		[Caruso, Raul] Univ Cattolica Sacro Cuore, Inst Econ Policy, Via Necchi 5, I-20123 Milan, Italy; [Addesa, Francesco] Univ East London, London, England; [Di Domizio, Marco] Univ Teramo, Dept Polit Sci, Econ, Teramo, Italy; [Caruso, Raul] Univ Cattolica Sacro Cuore, Inst Econ Policy, Via Necchi 5, I-20123 Milan, Italy								49							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000453418200002	66	Article; Article		
J	Ebert, Jay R.; Webster, Kate E.; Edwards, Peter K.; Joss, Brendan K.; D'Alessandro, Peter; Janes, Greg; Annear, Peter								Current perspectives of Australian therapists on rehabilitation and return to sport after anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction: A survey								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				35				139	145		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.12.004			JAN 2019	2019	Objectives: To investigate views and practices of Australian therapists on rehabilitation and return to sport (RTS) after anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction (ACLR). Design: Survey-based study. Setting: Online survey platform. Participants: Australian Physiotherapists and Accredited Exercise Physiologists (n = 223). Main outcome measures: 1) perceived benefit, timing and frequency of rehabilitation, 2) timing of RTS and information on RTS evaluation and discharge criteria. Results: Therapists preferred to consult patients for the first time at 1-4 days (27.8%), <7 days (25.6%) or 7-14 days (30.5%) post-surgery. Within the first 6 weeks, 82.1% of therapists preferred patient visitation 1-2 times per week. Between 3 and 6 months, therapists mainly recommended less frequent visitation with a focus on home exercises. While 22.0% and 53.8% of therapists were willing to discharge patients for sport at 6-9 and 9-12 months, respectively, 22.9% preferred 12-18 months. Common RTS considerations were functional capacity (98.7%), strength (87.0%), lower limb and trunk mechanics (96.0%) and psychological readiness (87.9%). Knee strength was evaluated via manual muscle testing (33.0%), hand held (26.7%) and isokinetic (11.8%) dynamometry. For functional evaluation, 84.3% of therapists employed a hop battery (>= 2 hop tests). Conclusions: This survey revealed variation in beliefs and practices surrounding rehabilitation and RTS evaluation in Australian therapists. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Ebert, Jay R.; Edwards, Peter K.] Univ Western Australia, Sch Human Sci Exercise & Sport Sci, Crawley, WA, Australia; [Ebert, Jay R.; Edwards, Peter K.; Joss, Brendan K.] HFRC Rehabil Clin, Nedlands, WA, Australia; [Webster, Kate E.] La Trobe Univ, Sch Allied Hlth, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [D'Alessandro, Peter] Bethesda Hosp, Coastal Orthopaed, Claremont, CA, Australia; [Janes, Greg; Annear, Peter] Perth Orthopaed & Sports Med Ctr, Perth, WA, Australia; [Ebert, Jay R.] Univ Western Australia, Sch Human Sci M408, 35 Stirling Highway, Crawley, WA 6009, Australia								43							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000456639200022	42	Article; Article		
J	Laessoe, Uffe; Svendsen, Anne Weinreich; Christensen, Mads Norre; Rasmussen, Jacob Rosenkrans; Gaml, Alexander Scharf								Evaluation of functional ankle instability assessed by an instrumented wobble board								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				35				133	138		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.12.002			JAN 2019	2019	Objectives: Ankle sprains often lead to a history of recurrent injuries and functional joint instability. This study evaluated a new method for assessing functional impairment in patients with chronic ankle instability. Design: Case-control study for construct validation purpose. Setting: The participants were tested during one-leg standing for 20 s on an instrumented wobble board and on a balance platform. Participants: Twenty-five young people with previous ankle sprain and an instability score >11 in the "Identification of Functional Ankle Instability questionnaire" and an age-matched control group of 25 healthy individuals. Main outcome measures: Wobble board variation of tilt angle measured by two accelerometers placed horizontally in the board. Results: The variation in angular tilt of the wobble board in the medio-lateral direction (standard deviation of tilt angle) was higher in the group with perceived ankle instability than in the control group: 1.5 (0.7) versus 1.1 (0.3). ICC for intra-tester reliability: 0.87 and correlation with COP area measures from the stable balance platform: 0.64. Conclusions: People with functional ankle instability display poorer postural stability in the mediolateral direction when challenged on an unstable surface. The instrumented wobble board may serve as a relevant tool in the clinical evaluation of functional ankle stability. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Laessoe, Uffe; Svendsen, Anne Weinreich; Christensen, Mads Norre; Rasmussen, Jacob Rosenkrans; Gaml, Alexander Scharf] Univ Coll Northern Denmark, UCN, Physiotherapy Dept, Selma Lagerloffsvej 2, DK-9220 Aalborg, Denmark; [Laessoe, Uffe] Univ Coll Northern Denmark, UCN, Dept Res & Dev, Selma Lagerloffsvej 2, DK-9220 Aalborg, Denmark; [Laessoe, Uffe] Univ Coll Northern Denmark, Selma Lagerloffsvej 2, DK-9220 Aalborg, Denmark								15							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000456639200021	35	Article; Article		
J	Yeomans, Caithriona; Kenny, Ian C.; Cahalan, Roisin; Warrington, Giles D.; Harrison, Andrew J.; Hayes, Kevin; Lyons, Mark; Campbell, Mark J.; Glynn, Liam G.; Comyns, Thomas M.								The design, development, implementation and evaluation of IRISweb; A rugby-specific web-based injury surveillance system								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				35				79	88		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.11.007			JAN 2019	2019	Objectives: To describe the development, implementation and evaluation of a comprehensive injury surveillance system. Design: The four phases; i) A survey of 58 medical professionals working in amateur rugby. ii) The design of a web-based injury surveillance system (IRISweb). iii) Recruitment of 21 of the top 58 amateur clubs to use IRISweb. iv) An evaluation survey of the 21 participating clubs. Setting: Irish amateur rugby clubs. Participants: Medical professionals working in amateur rugby. Main outcome measures: Phase one investigated the injury monitoring practices in operation prior to the IRIS project. Phase four investigated the effectiveness and usefulness of IRISweb. Results: Twenty-one clubs were recruited, however 2 clubs failed to provide a full season of data (10% dropout rate). Eighty-two percent of the remaining 19 clubs rated IRISweb as 'good' or 'very good'. Facilitators of injury surveillance were; increased player adherence (65%) and notifications to update the system (59%), however, poor player adherence (71%) and medical staff availability (24%) were the main barriers. Conclusions: The IRIS project is the first prospective long-term injury surveillance system in Irish amateur rugby, effectively tracking injuries to guide future evidence-based injury prevention strategies. This study highlights facilitators and barriers to injury surveillance within amateur sport. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Yeomans, Caithriona; Kenny, Ian C.; Warrington, Giles D.; Harrison, Andrew J.; Lyons, Mark; Campbell, Mark J.; Comyns, Thomas M.] Univ Limerick, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Castletroy, Co Limerick, Ireland; [Yeomans, Caithriona; Kenny, Ian C.; Cahalan, Roisin; Warrington, Giles D.; Glynn, Liam G.; Comyns, Thomas M.] Univ Limerick, Hlth Res Inst, Limerick, Ireland; [Cahalan, Roisin] Univ Limerick, Sch Allied Hlth, Limerick, Ireland; [Hayes, Kevin] Univ Limerick, Dept Math & Stat, Limerick, Ireland; [Campbell, Mark J.] Univ Limerick, Irish Software Res Ctr, Lero, Limerick, Ireland; [Glynn, Liam G.] Univ Limerick, Grad Entry Med Sch, Limerick, Ireland; [Yeomans, Caithriona] Univ Limerick, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Castletroy, Co Limerick, Ireland								22							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000456639200013	46	Article; Article		
J	O'Brien, Michael; Bourne, Matthew; Heerey, Joshua; Timmins, Ryan G.; Pizzari, Tania								A novel device to assess hip strength: Concurrent validity and normative values in male athletes								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				35				63	68		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.11.006			JAN 2019	2019			[O'Brien, Michael; Bourne, Matthew; Heerey, Joshua; Pizzari, Tania] La Trobe Sport & Exercise Med Res Ctr, Bundoora, Vic 3086, Australia; [O'Brien, Michael] LifeCare Malvern Sports Med Ctr, 91 Wattletree Rd, Armadale, Vic 3143, Australia; [Bourne, Matthew] Griffith Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Sci, Gold Coast 4215, Australia; [Timmins, Ryan G.] Australian Catholic Univ, Sch Behav & Hlth Sci, Fitzroy, Vic 3065, Australia; [Pizzari, Tania] La Trobe Sport & Exercise Med Res Ctr, Bundoora, Vic 3086, Australia								62							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000456639200010	26	Article; Article		
J	Pau, Massimiliano; Porta, Micaela; Arippa, Federico; Pilloni, Giuseppina; Sorrentino, Marco; Carta, Marco; Mura, Mauro; Leban, Bruno								Dynamic postural stability, is associated with competitive level, in youth league soccer players								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				35				36	41		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.11.002			JAN 2019	2019	Objectives: To assess the effect of competitive level on dynamic postural stability in young elite and subelite soccer players. Design: Cross-sectional study. Setting: Laboratory. Participants: Fifty-four male soccer players of Under 16 and Under 17 categories (mean age 15.9 +/- 0.6), divided into two groups who regularly compete at national (n = 28) and regional (n = 26) levels. Main outcome measures: Dynamic Postural Stability Index (DPSI) and vertical Time to Stabilization (vTTS) for a forward-jump landing. Static postural sway was calculated on the basis of center-of-pressure trajectories for a 20 s one-legged stance. Results: Players at national level exhibit better dynamic postural control than those at regional level, as indicated by the significantly lower DPSI (0.327 vs. 0.373, p < 0.001) and vTTS (0.887 vs. 1.158 s, p = 0.003). In contrast, no differences between groups were found in any of the postural sway parameters for the static test. Conclusions: Young soccer players at national level are characterized by better balance performance in terms of faster and more efficient stabilization after a forward jump, while one-leg static standing tests appear not challenging enough to reveal differences in balance abilities associated with the combination of superior technical and physical features. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Pau, Massimiliano; Porta, Micaela; Arippa, Federico; Pilloni, Giuseppina; Sorrentino, Marco; Carta, Marco; Leban, Bruno] Univ Cagliari, Dept Mech Chem & Mat Engn, Piazza Armi, I-09123 Cagliari, Italy; [Mura, Mauro] Cagliari Calcio SpA, Cagliari, Italy; [Pau, Massimiliano] Univ Cagliari, Dept Mech Chem & Mat Engn, Piazza Armi, I-09123 Cagliari, Italy								22							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000456639200007	53	Article; Article		
J	Klich, Sebastian; Kisilewicz, Aleksandra; Poiarowszczyk, Beata; Zaton, Marek; Kawczynski, Adam; Michener, Lori A.								Shoulder tendon characteristics in disabled swimmers in high functional classes - Preliminary report								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				35				23	28		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.10.017			JAN 2019	2019	Objective: To characterize disabled swimmers in comparison to an able-bodied swimmers for (1) supraspinatus tendon thickness, (2) subacromial space and (3) occupation ratio. Design: Cross-Sectional Study. Setting: Research laboratory. Participants: Disabled swimmers with upper (DSw-Upper) (n = 8) and lower (DSw-Lower) (n = 7) extremity disorders. The DSw-Upper were classified in sports class S7-S8, while DSw-Lower in S9-S10. The control group had 15 able-bodied swimmers. Main outcome measures: Ultrasound images of (1) supraspinatus tendon in short axis and long axis, (2) subacromial space, and (3) occupation ratio. Results: A thicker supraspinatus tendon in short axis was observed in DSw-Upper versus C-Sw (p = 0.012) and DSw-Upper versus DSw-Lower (p = 0.018); and in long axis for DSw-Upper versus CSw (p = 0.0001), and DSw-Upper versus DSw-Lower (p = 0.002). There was a greater occupation ratio in DSw-Upper versus DSw-Lower in short axis (p = 0.013) and long axis (p = 0.035). Conclusions: The present study showed a thicker supraspinatus tendon and greater occupation ratio with the tendon occupying more of the subacromial space that may predispose upper extremity disabled swimmers to tendon disorders such as subacromial impingement syndrome. Ultrasound examination can be used to assess shoulder tendon characteristics and the relationship to the subacromial space, to determine potential for injury and training load monitoring. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Klich, Sebastian; Kisilewicz, Aleksandra; Poiarowszczyk, Beata; Kawczynski, Adam] Univ Sch Phys Educ Wroclaw, Dept Paralymp Sport, 25a Witelona Strseet, PL-51617 Wroclaw, Poland; [Zaton, Marek] Univ Sch Phys Educ Wroclaw, Dept Physiol & Biochem, 35 Paderewskiego Ave, PL-51612 Wroclaw, Poland; [Michener, Lori A.] Univ Southern Calif, Div Biokinesiol & Phys Therapy, 1540 E Alcazar St,CHP155, Los Angeles, CA 90089 USA; [Klich, Sebastian] Univ Sch Phys Educ Wroclaw, Dept Paralymp Sport, 25a Witelona Strseet, PL-51617 Wroclaw, Poland								7							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000456639200005	35	Article; Article		
J	Faigenbaum, Avery D.; Rial Rebullido, Tamara								Understanding Physical Literacy in Youth								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				40	6			90	94		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000417			DEC 2018	2018	The journey of physical literacy can be viewed along a continuum that may be influenced both positively and negatively by life experiences and interactions with the physical world. The proposed model highlights the interrelated components of physical literacy that are dependent on the quantity and quality of individual moderate to vigorous physical activity experiences.		[Faigenbaum, Avery D.] Coll New Jersey, Dept Hlth & Exercise Sci, Ewing, NJ 08618 USA; [Rial Rebullido, Tamara] Int Hypopress & Phys Therapy Inst, Vigo, Spain; [Faigenbaum, Avery D.] Coll New Jersey, Dept Hlth & Exercise Sci, Ewing, NJ 08618 USA								30							Sport Sciences	WOS:000457621600013	25	Article; Article		
J	Jones, Luke; Denison, Jim								A Sociocultural Perspective Surrounding the Application of Global Positioning System Technology: Suggestions for the Strength and Conditioning Coach								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				40	6			3	8		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000367			DEC 2018	2018	An increased use of global positioning system (GPS) monitoring within professional sport has led to an evolution in the role of the strength and conditioning (S&C) coach. This role continues to gravitate toward a greater emphasis on the collection, discernment, and application of GPS data. However, there are numerous implications surrounding the use of monitoring technologies by coaches that sport sociologists have shown through the work of french philosopher michel foucault that can be potentially problematic for athletes' development. S&C coaches now require guidance to help them to use these tools. Here, we present some suggestions to help the S&C coach in this endeavor.		[Jones, Luke] Univ Hull, Sport Hlth & Exercise Sci, Kingston Upon Hull, N Humberside, England; [Denison, Jim] Univ Alberta, Fac Kinesiol Sport & Recreat, Edmonton, AB, Canada; [Jones, Luke] Univ Hull, Sport Hlth & Exercise Sci, Kingston Upon Hull, N Humberside, England								8							Sport Sciences	WOS:000457621600002	22	Article; Article		
J	Bousquet, Brett A.; Olson, Thomas								Starting at the Ground Up: Range of Motion Requirements and Assessment Procedures for Weightlifting Movements								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				40	6			56	67		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000399			DEC 2018	2018	Not all who perform or coach weightlifting movements (WMs) such as the clean and jerk and snatch are aware of the mobility requirements needed to perform the movements correctly. Currently, no succinct assessment exists designed to evaluate all the range of motion requirements needed to perform these WMs. The purpose of this article is to discuss the joint and biomechanical forces experienced during WM and to propose assessment measures that attempt to objectively pair the motion requirements of WMs with research-supported values and tests to determine whether an athlete has the requisite motion available to perform a technique before adding external load. For a video abstract of this article, see supplemental digital content 1 (see video, http://links.lww.com/scj/a242).		[Bousquet, Brett A.] Intermt Hosp Pk City Phys Therapy, Phys Therapy Dept, Park City, UT 84060 USA; [Olson, Thomas] Howard Head Sports Med Ctr, Phys Therapy Dept, Vail, CO USA; [Bousquet, Brett A.] Intermt Hosp Pk City Phys Therapy, Phys Therapy Dept, Park City, UT 84060 USA								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:000457621600009	42	Article; Article		
J	Schoenfeld, Brad; Grgic, Jozo								Can Drop Set Training Enhance Muscle Growth?								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				40	6			95	98		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000366			DEC 2018	2018	Some researchers have postulated that training to muscular failure is obligatory for maximizing muscle hypertrophy. This has led to the speculation that drop set training may be an effective strategy to more fully fatigue the musculature and, in turn, enhance muscular adaptations. In this article, we review the evidence on the topic.		[Schoenfeld, Brad] Lehman Coll, Dept Hlth Sci, Bronx, NY 10468 USA; [Grgic, Jozo] Victoria Univ, ISEAL, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Schoenfeld, Brad] Lehman Coll, Dept Hlth Sci, Bronx, NY 10468 USA								16							Sport Sciences	WOS:000457621600014	20	Article; Article		
J	O'Malley, Lynne Marie; Greenwood, Sallie								Female Coaches in Strength and Conditioning-Why So Few?								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				40	6			40	48		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000401			DEC 2018	2018	A substantial issue in sporting professions today, including elite strength and conditioning, is sex imbalance. Attitudes toward women's roles are complex and institutionally entrenched, contributing to barriers to women's success. Although real issues still exist for today's elite female strength coaches, murmurings of change are audible. Further research on why sex imbalance in strength and conditioning matters as well as the creation of a culture where women feel included and wanted is part of the solution. This article will focus on women in strength and conditioning, and situates it within a broader social context.		[O'Malley, Lynne Marie] Waikato Inst Technol, Ctr Sports Sci & Human Performance, Hamilton, New Zealand; [Greenwood, Sallie] Waikato Inst Technol, Ctr Hlth & Social Practice, Hamilton, New Zealand; [O'Malley, Lynne Marie] Waikato Inst Technol, Ctr Sports Sci & Human Performance, Hamilton, New Zealand								20							Sport Sciences	WOS:000457621600007	82	Article; Article		
J	Hornsby, William G.; Gentles, Jeremy A.; Haff, G. Gregory; Stone, Michael H.; Buckner, Samuel L.; Dankel, Scott J.; Bell, Zachary W.; Abe, Takashi; Loenneke, Jeremy P.								What is the Impact of Muscle Hypertrophy on Strength and Sport Performance?								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				40	6			99	111		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000432			DEC 2018	2018	For decades, most scientists and practitioners have agreed that muscle hypertrophy also induces strength gains. However, a recent publication "the problem of muscle hypertrophy: revisited," Buckner, SL, Dankel, SJ, Mattocks, KT, Jessee, MB, Mouser, JG, Counts, BR, et al. The problem of muscle hypertrophy: revisited. Muscle nerve 54: 1012-1014, 2016, questioned the mechanistic role that exercise-induced increases in muscle size have on the exercise-induced increases in strength (or force production), as well as the influence that exercise-induced increases in strength have on sports performance. Such suggestions undermine the importance of certain aspects of strength and conditioning for sport. Specifically, if not acting as a mechanism for strength adaptation, it is unclear if there is a sports-related benefit to skeletal muscle hypertrophy. In addition, the authors argued that if strength has little impact on sports performance, strength and conditioning programs may be doing little more than delaying recovery from practicing the actual sport. This contention also indicates that hypertrophy should be avoided in nearly all scenarios because increased muscle size would be additional mass that must be overcome. The purpose of this special discussion is to allow for an in-depth scientific discussion of the experimental evidence for and against the position of buckner et al. That exercise-induced increases in muscle size have little relevance on the exercise-induced increases in strength, and thus, sport performance.		[Hornsby, William G.] West Virginia Univ, Coll Phys Act & Sport Sci, Dept Coaching & Teaching Studies, Morgantown, WV 26506 USA; [Gentles, Jeremy A.; Stone, Michael H.] Edith Cowan Univ, Sch Exercise Biomed & Hlth Sci, Joondalup, WA, Australia; [Haff, G. Gregory] East Tennessee State Univ, Ctr Excellence Sport Sci & Coach Educ, Johnson City, TN 37614 USA; [Buckner, Samuel L.] Univ S Florida, USF Muscle Lab, Div Exercise Sci, Tampa, FL USA; [Dankel, Scott J.; Bell, Zachary W.; Abe, Takashi; Loenneke, Jeremy P.] Univ Mississippi, Kevser Ermin Appl Physiol Lab, Dept Hlth Exercise Sci & Recreat Management, University, MS 38677 USA; [Hornsby, William G.] West Virginia Univ, Coll Phys Act & Sport Sci, Dept Coaching & Teaching Studies, Morgantown, WV 26506 USA; [Loenneke, Jeremy P.] Univ Mississippi, Kevser Ermin Appl Physiol Lab, Dept Hlth Exercise Sci & Recreat Management, University, MS 38677 USA								23							Sport Sciences	WOS:000457621600015	92	Article; Article		
J	Iwatsuki, Takehiro; Van Raalte, Judy L.; Brewer, Britton W.; Petitpas, Albert; Takahashi, Masanori								Relations Among Reinvestment, Self-Regulation, and Perception of Choking Under Pressure								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				65	1			281	290		10.2478/hukin-2018-0042			DEC 2018	2018	The purpose of this study was to examine relations among reinvestment, self-regulation, and perception of choking under pressure in skilled tennis players. Participants were 160 collegiate players from the NCAA Division I in the U.S. and the 1st League in Japan. Participants completed questionnaires assessing reinvestment (conscious motor processing and movement self-consciousness), self-regulation, and perception of choking under pressure. Results of correlation analysis indicated self-regulatory factors were positively related to reinvestment conscious motor processing, but not with reinvestment movement self-consciousness. Self-efficacy and movement self-consciousness of reinvestment were found to predict one's perception of choking under pressure. Results of simultaneous entry multiple regression revealed that tennis players who had low self-efficacy and were concerned about making a good impression with their movements were more likely to perceive that they choked during tennis matches. Additionally, Japanese players reported less self-regulation skills and a higher perception of choking under pressure than American players, suggesting the need for additional research on cross-cultural differences. Overall, these results suggest that self-efficacy may protect athletes from choking, but movement self-consciousness may lead athletes to choke during tennis games.		[Iwatsuki, Takehiro] Penn State Univ, Altoona Coll, Dept Kinesiol, 3000 Ivyside Pk, Altoona, PA 16601 USA; [Van Raalte, Judy L.; Brewer, Britton W.; Petitpas, Albert] Springfield Coll, Dept Psychol, Springfield, MA USA; [Takahashi, Masanori] Nihon Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Setagaya Ku, Tokyo, Japan; [Iwatsuki, Takehiro] Penn State Univ, Altoona Coll, Dept Kinesiol, 3000 Ivyside Pk, Altoona, PA 16601 USA								9							Sport Sciences	WOS:000456344200025	45	Article; Article		
J	Magiera, Artur; Roczniok, Robert; Sadowska-Krepa, Ewa; Kempa, Katarzyna; Placek, Oskar; Mostowik, Aleksandra								The Effect of Physical And Mental Stress on the Heart Rate, Cortisol and Lactate Concentrations in Rock Climbers								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				65	1			111	123		10.2478/hukin-2018-0024			DEC 2018	2018	Rock climbing is a physical activity that not only causes an increase in muscle tension, heart rate and blood pressure, but also results in the elevation of stress hormones including cortisol. It has not been established which of the above mentioned variables serve as the most accurate indicator of rock climbing-induced physical and mental stress. The aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of physical activity, short-term fatigue and mental demand on heart rate (HR), salivary cortisol (C) and blood plasma lactate (LA) concentrations in rock climbers under laboratory conditions. Twelve male and female rock climbers of comparable climbing performance (5a - 6b OS) were recruited. The participants completed two routes of different climbing difficulty (effect of physical demand), repeated a difficult route with a short 5-min recovery period three times (effect of fatigue), and repeated a difficult lead climb (effect of mental demand). Heart rate as well as C and LA concentrations were determined. The results indicated that more difficult climbing routes elicited increases in HR (especially relative values) and LA concentrations, whereas fatigue accumulation had an effect on climbing HR and relative C concentration values. Lead climbing only caused an increase in climbing HR. Based on the results it was concluded that HR was a good indicator of physical and mental stress intensity. Performing the same difficult route three times with a short recovery period in-between turned out to be the most demanding task and resulted in the highest increase of the cortisol concentration. Dynamics of changes in lactate concentrations depend on muscle loading (local muscular effort), lactate clearance and technical/tactical skills of the climber.		[Magiera, Artur; Placek, Oskar] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ, Dept Act Sport & Adventure Tourism, Ul Mikolowska 72a, PL-40065 Katowice, Poland; [Roczniok, Robert] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ, Dept Stat Methodol & Informat, Katowice, Poland; [Sadowska-Krepa, Ewa; Kempa, Katarzyna] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ, Dept Biochem, Katowice, Poland; [Mostowik, Aleksandra] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ, Dept Sports Training, Katowice, Poland; [Magiera, Artur] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ, Dept Act Sport & Adventure Tourism, Ul Mikolowska 72a, PL-40065 Katowice, Poland								8							Sport Sciences	WOS:000456344200010	32	Article; Article		
J	Marczak, Milena; Ginszt, Michal; Gawda, Piotr; Berger, Marcin; Majcher, Piotr								Neurocognitive Functioning of Sport Climbers								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				65	1			13	19		10.2478/hukin-2018-0036			DEC 2018	2018	Sport climbing, included in the programme of the Tokyo 2020 Summer Olympic Games, is increasingly gaining in popularity as a method of physical and mental health enhancement. Studies show a positive relationship between climbing and improvement of neurocognitive functioning. The aim of this study was to determine the differences in neurocognitive indicators: time of testing, memory, and location between climbers and non-climbers. The sample comprised 30 sport climbers (15 males, 15 females; aged 25 +/- 4 years) practicing climbing regularly for five years, and 30 non-climbing age-and sex-matched controls. The Tactual Performance Test (Halstead-Reitan Test Battery) was used to measure neurocognitive functions (tactile-spatial functions, motion coordination, kinesthetic abilities, learning, memory). Significant differences were found between sport climbers and controls in reference to time, memory, and location (p < 0.05). Climbers reached higher memory as well as location ratios and lower time ratios in comparison to controls. Different strategies used to complete the task between the two groups were observed. The neurocognitive functioning of sport climbers manifests itself in faster recognition and differentiation of tactile input and better spatial perception, tactile perception, and movement memory.		[Marczak, Milena] Maria Curie Sklodowska Univ Lublin, Inst Psychol, Gen Psychol Dept, Lublin, Poland; [Ginszt, Michal; Gawda, Piotr; Majcher, Piotr] Med Univ Lublin, Fac Hlth Sci, Chair Rehabil Physiotherapy & Balneotherapy, Dept Rehabil & Physiotherapy, Ul Magnoliowa 2, PL-20143 Lublin, Poland; [Berger, Marcin] Med Univ Lublin, Dept Funct Masticatory Disorders, Lublin, Poland; [Ginszt, Michal] Med Univ Lublin, Fac Hlth Sci, Chair Rehabil Physiotherapy & Balneotherapy, Dept Rehabil & Physiotherapy, Ul Magnoliowa 2, PL-20143 Lublin, Poland								10							Sport Sciences	WOS:000456344200001	35	Article; Article		
J	Jastrzebski, Dariusz; Zebrowska, Aleksandra; Rutkowski, Sebastian; Rutkowska, Anna; Warzecha, Joanna; Ziaja, Bettina; Palka, Aleksandra; Czyzewska, Barbara; Czyzewski, Damian; Ziora, Dariusz								Pulmonary Rehabilitation with a Stabilometric Platform After Thoracic Surgery: A Preliminary Report								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				65	1			79	87		10.2478/hukin-2018-0044			DEC 2018	2018	The aim of this study was to evaluate the influence of exercises on a stabilometric platform on the physical fitness and mobility of patients with lung cancer after thoracic surgery. The Experimental Group included 22, and the Control Group consisted of 21 patients. All included patients were enrolled after thoracic surgery due to lung cancer. The Experimental and Control Groups were enrolled in a 3-week in-hospital pulmonary rehabilitation program. The Experimental Group additionally performed daily 20-min training sessions on a stabilometric platform. Agility and flexibility were assessed with the Fullerton test before and after rehabilitation in both groups, and quality of life was assessed with the SF-36 questionnaire. Exercise performance stated as a distance in a 6 min walking test (6MWT) significantly improved in both groups with a medium effect size. The results of the Fullerton test indicated improvements in flexibility in both groups after the completion of the program without a significant difference between the groups and with a small effect size. In the Experimental Group, the best results were observed in the Arm curl (p = 0.0001), Chair stand (p = 0.04), Up and go (p = 0.001) and Chair sit and reach (p = 0.0001) tasks. No deterioration in the quality of life was observed in the Experimental or the Control Group after the completion of the program. Between-group analyses revealed significant differences in the Role-Physical (RP) (p = 0.020) and Mental-Health (MH) (p = 0.025) domains of the SF-36. The rehabilitation program with a stabilometric platform improved agility and flexibility of patients after thoracic surgery without an effect size or significant differences between the Experimental and Control Groups.		[Jastrzebski, Dariusz; Warzecha, Joanna; Ziaja, Bettina; Palka, Aleksandra; Ziora, Dariusz] Med Univ Silesia, Div Dent, Sch Med, Dept Lung Dis & TB, Koziolka 1, PL-41803 Zabrze, Poland; [Zebrowska, Aleksandra] Acad Phys Educ, Dept Physiol, Katowice, Poland; [Rutkowski, Sebastian; Rutkowska, Anna] Opole Univ Technol, Inst Physiotherapy, Dept Phys Educ & Physiotherapy, Opole, Poland; [Czyzewska, Barbara; Czyzewski, Damian] Med Univ Silesia, Div Dent, Sch Med, Dept Thoracosurg, Zabrze, Poland; [Jastrzebski, Dariusz] Med Univ Silesia, Div Dent, Sch Med, Dept Lung Dis & TB, Koziolka 1, PL-41803 Zabrze, Poland								18							Sport Sciences	WOS:000456344200007	18	Article; Article		
J	Lago-Fuentes, Carlos; Rey, Ezequiel; Padron-Cabo, Alexis; Sal de Rellan-Guerra, Alejandro; Fragueiro-Rodriguez, Ana; Garcia-Nunez, Javier								Effects of Core Strength Training Using Stable and Unstable Surfaces on Physical Fitness and Functional Performance in Professional Female Futsal Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				65	1			213	224		10.2478/hukin-2018-0029			DEC 2018	2018	The aim of this study was to assess the effect of core strength training performed on a stable surface (CTS) compared with core strength training performed on an unstable surface (CTU) on physical fitness (jump performance, sprint, and repeated sprint ability (RSA)) and quality of movement (Fundamental Movement Screen) in professional female futsal players. Fourteen professional female futsal players (mean age: 23.7 +/- 5.1 years, age range: 18-28 years) were randomly assigned to a CTS (n = 7) or a CTU (n = 7) group. The intervention program was carried out 3 times a week over 6 weeks. Players of both groups performed the same four core-strengthening exercises. The only difference between the two interventions was that the CTU group performed all exercises (i.e., shoulder bridge, side bridge, prone plank, and crunch) on an unstable surface (Togu (R) Dyn-Air). Within-group analysis showed significant improvements (p < 0.001) in 10 m sprint performance from the pre- to post-test in the CTS (+4.37%) and CTU (+5.00%) groups. Players in both the CTS (+10.39%) and CTU (+11.10%) group also showed significant enhancement in the Functional Movement Screen total score, from the pre-test to post-test. In addition, a significant time effect was also observed for the CTU group in the relative score of the RSA test decreasing from the pre- to post-test (-30.85%). In the between-groups analysis, there were no significant differences between the core strength training groups (CTS vs CTU) in any variable. To conclude, sprint and Functional Movement Screen performance improved following CTS and CTU when conducted in combination with regular futsal training. In addition, CTU had limited benefit in RSA compared to CTS.		[Lago-Fuentes, Carlos; Rey, Ezequiel; Padron-Cabo, Alexis; Sal de Rellan-Guerra, Alejandro; Fragueiro-Rodriguez, Ana] Univ Vigo, Fac Educ & Sport Sci, Campus A Xunqueira S-N, Pontevedra 36005, Spain; [Lago-Fuentes, Carlos] European Atlantic Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, Santander, Spain; [Garcia-Nunez, Javier] Univ Vigo, Fac Educ Sci, Orense, Spain; [Lago-Fuentes, Carlos] Univ Vigo, Fac Educ & Sport Sci, Campus A Xunqueira S-N, Pontevedra 36005, Spain								39							Sport Sciences	WOS:000456344200019	29	Article; Article		
J	Gervasi, Marco; Calavalle, Anna Rita; Amatori, Stefano; Grassi, Eugenio; Benelli, Piero; Sestili, Piero; Sisti, Davide								Post-Activation Potentiation Increases Recruitment of Fast Twitch Fibers: A Potential Practical Application in Runners								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				65	1			69	77		10.2478/hukin-2018-0021			DEC 2018	2018	To determine the relationship between fatigue and post-activation potentiation, we examined the effects of submaximal continuous running on neuromuscular function tests, as well as on the squat jump and counter movement jump in endurance athletes. The height of the squat jump and counter movement jump and the estimate of the fast twitch fiber recruiting capabilities were assessed in seven male middle distance runners before and after 40 min of continuous running at an intensity corresponding to the individual lactate threshold. The same test was then repeated after three weeks of specific aerobic training. Since the three variables were strongly correlated, only the estimate of the fast twitch fiber was considered for the results. The subjects showed a significant improvement in the fast twitch fiber recruitment percentage after the 40 min run. Our data show that submaximal physical exercise determined a change in fast twitch muscle fiber recruitment patterns observed when subjects performed vertical jumps; however, this recruitment capacity was proportional to the subjects' individual fast twitch muscle fiber profiles measured before the 40 min run. The results of the jump tests did not change significantly after the three-week training period. These results suggest that pre-fatigue methods, through sub-maximal exercises, could be used to take advantage of explosive capacity in middle-distance runners.		[Gervasi, Marco; Calavalle, Anna Rita; Amatori, Stefano; Grassi, Eugenio; Benelli, Piero; Sestili, Piero; Sisti, Davide] Univ Urbino Carlo Bo, Dept Biomol Sci, Via I Maggetti 26-2, I-61029 Urbino, PU, Italy; [Gervasi, Marco] Univ Urbino Carlo Bo, Dept Biomol Sci, Via I Maggetti 26-2, I-61029 Urbino, PU, Italy								11							Sport Sciences	WOS:000456344200006	37	Article; Article		
J	Grgantov, Zoran; Jelaska, Igor; Suker, Dragutin								Intra and Interzone Differences of Attack and Counterattack Efficiency in Elite Male Volleyball								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				65	1			205	212		10.2478/hukin-2018-0028			DEC 2018	2018	The primary goal of this study was to identify and explain differences in a volleyball set between winning and defeated teams, based on frequency and efficiency of the attack and counterattack, both overall and from particular zones of the volleyball court. Research was conducted on a randomly chosen sample of 206 sets played in 55 matches of the Men's Champions League. A total of 10555 spikes in the attack and counterattack from various zones of the volleyball court were analyzed. Between-subjects 2x5 factorial ANOVA (OutcomexZone) was used to identify significant differences between the set outcome and zones or their interaction for both attack and counterattack efficiency. Significant differences were found in the efficiency of spikes in attacks and counterattacks from various zones of the volleyball court and between winning and losing teams. Post-hoc analysis of interaction effects also revealed significant differences. The obtained results substantiate the importance of spiking, both in the attack and counterattack, for winning a volleyball set, and indicate the specific values of spiking in the attack and counterattack from various zones, for both winning and defeated teams. The results of this study can be useful for coaches, in evaluation of player's performance in the match, in planning and programming the training process as well as in the technical and tactical preparation of the team for the tournament.		[Grgantov, Zoran; Jelaska, Igor] Univ Split, Fac Kinesiol, 06 Teslas St, Split 21000, Croatia; [Suker, Dragutin] Univ Rijeka, Fac Sci Appl, Rijeka, Croatia; [Jelaska, Igor] Univ Split, Fac Kinesiol, 06 Teslas St, Split 21000, Croatia								12							Sport Sciences	WOS:000456344200018	29	Article; Article		
J	Kumstat, Michal; Hlinsky, Tomas; Struhar, Ivan; Thomas, Andy								Does Sodium Citrate Cause the Same Ergogenic Effect as Sodium Bicarbonate on Swimming Performance?								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				65	1			89	98		10.2478/hukin-2018-0022			DEC 2018	2018	The aim of this study was to investigate the effect of ingesting sodium bicarbonate (SB) and sodium citrate (SC) on 400 m high-intensity swimming performance and blood responses. Six nationally ranked male swimmers (20.7 +/- 2.1 yrs; 184 +/- 6 cm; 79.9 +/- 3.9 kg; 10.6 +/- 1% body fat) participated in a double blinded, placebo controlled crossover trial. Ninety minutes after consuming SB (0.3 g.kg(-1)), SC (0.3 g.kg(-1)) or a placebo (PL) participants completed a single 400-m freestyle maximal test on three consecutive days. The order of the supplementation was randomized. Capillary blood samples were collected on 4 occasions: at rest (baseline), 60 min post-ingestion, immediately post-trial and 15 min post-trial. Blood pH, HCO3- concentration and base excess (BE) were determined. Blood pH, HCO3-, BE were significantly elevated from before loading to the pre-test (60 min post-ingestion) (p < 0.05) after SB ingestion, but not after SC ingestion (p > 0.05). Performance times were improved by 0.6% (p > 0.05) after supplementation of SB over PL in 5 out of 6 participants (responders). In contrast, ingestion of SC decreased performance by 0.2% (p > 0.05). No side effects were observed in either trial. Delayed blood response was observed after SC ingestion compared to SB and this provided no or modest ergogenic effect, respectively, for single bout high-intensity swimming exercise. Monitoring the magnitude of the time-to-peak level rise in alkalosis may be recommended in order to individualize the loading time accordingly before commencement of exercise.		[Kumstat, Michal; Hlinsky, Tomas; Struhar, Ivan] Masaryk Univ Brno, Fac Sport Studies, Dept Hlth Promot, Kamenice 5, Brno 62500, Czech Republic; [Thomas, Andy] Univ South Wales, Sch Sport Hlth & Profess Practice, Sports Pk, Pontypridd, M Glam, Wales; [Kumstat, Michal] Masaryk Univ Brno, Fac Sport Studies, Dept Hlth Promot, Kamenice 5, Brno 62500, Czech Republic								16							Sport Sciences	WOS:000456344200008	26	Article; Article		
J	Kucio, Cezary; Stastny, Petr; Leszczynska-Bolewska, Bozena; Engelmann, Malgorzata; Kucio, Ewa; Uhlir, Petr; Stania, Magdalena; Polaka, Anna								Exercise-Based Cardiac Rehabilitation with and without Neuromuscular Electrical Stimulation and its Effect on Exercise Tolerance and Life Quality of Persons with Chronic Heart Failure								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				65	1			151	163		10.2478/hukin-2018-0045			DEC 2018	2018	The study compares the effect of an exercise-based cardiac rehabilitation program with a program combining physical exercise and lower extremity neuromuscular electrical stimulation (NMES) on the recovery of patients with chronic heart failure (CHF) with NYHA II-III symptoms. Seventy two patients with stable CHF were randomly distributed to four groups that received exercise-based cardiac rehabilitation and pharmacological treatment. Groups I and II were additionally administered NMES (35 Hz and 10 Hz, respectively) and in Group III sham NMES was applied. Group IV (controls) received solely pharmacological and exercise treatment. Exercise tolerance and quality of life were assessed in patients pre-treatment and at week 3. Three weeks of rehabilitation induced significant increases (p < 0.05) in the distance covered in the 6-minute walk test, the metabolic equivalent (MET), the duration of the treadmill exercise stress test, the left ventricle ejection fraction (LVEF) and improved quality of life in all groups, but between-group differences were not significant (p > 0.05). In none of the groups were the left ventricle end-systolic and end-diastolic diameters (mm) measured at week 3 significantly different from their baseline values (p > 0.05). Exercise-based cardiac rehabilitation contributed to higher exercise tolerance, LVEF and quality of life of CHF patients (NYHA II-III), contrary to cardiac rehabilitation combined with lower extremity NMES (35 Hz and 10 Hz) that failed to induce such improvements. More research is necessary to assess the therapeutic efficacy of NMES applied to CHF patients with NYHA IV symptoms.		[Kucio, Cezary; Engelmann, Malgorzata; Kucio, Ewa; Stania, Magdalena; Polaka, Anna] Acad Phys Educ, Dept Phys Therapy, Mikolowska 72A Str, PL-40065 Katowice, Poland; Multispecialty Hosp, Dept Internal Dis, Jaworzno, Poland; [Uhlir, Petr] Charles Univ Prague, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Lab Phys Training Adaptat, Prague, Czech Republic; [Leszczynska-Bolewska, Bozena] Silesian Rehabil Ctr Repty, Tarnowskie Gory, Czech Republic; [Kucio, Cezary; Kucio, Ewa] Multispecialty Hosp, Siemianowice Slaskie, Czech Republic; [Stastny, Petr] Palacky Univ Olomouc, Fac Phys Culture, Dept Physiotherapy, Olomouc, Czech Republic; [Polaka, Anna] Rehabil Ctr Technomex, Gliwice, Poland; [Polaka, Anna] Acad Phys Educ, Dept Phys Therapy, Mikolowska 72A Str, PL-40065 Katowice, Poland								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:000456344200013	26	Article; Article		
J	Cetolin, Tiago; Teixeira, Anderson Santiago; Netto, Almir Schmitt; Haupenthal, Alessandro; Nakamura, Fabio Yuzo; Antonacci Guglielmo, Luiz Guilherme; da Silva, Juliano Fernandes								Training Loads and RSA and Aerobic Performance Changes During the Preseason in Youth Soccer Squads								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				65	1			235	248		10.2478/hukin-2018-0032			DEC 2018	2018	The aims of this study were to compare the internal training load (ITL) in soccer players of two competitive age groups (under-15 [U-15] and under-19 [U-19]) during an 8-week preseason training period and compare the associated changes in physical performance measures. Eighteen U-15 and twelve U-19 players were monitored over an 8-week period during the preseason phase. The ITL was monitored using the session rating of perceived exertion (RPE) method. Before and after the preseason period, physical performance was assessed by best (RSA(best)) and mean (RSA(mean)) times in a repeated sprint ability (RSA) test and peak velocity derived from the Carminatti test (PVT-CAR). Total weekly ITL increased with age (U-15: 13770 +/- 874 AU vs. U-19: 33584 +/- 2506 AU; p < 0.001). In addition, U-19 players perceived training sessions as heavier than U-15 players (6.1 +/- 0.3 vs. 5.3 +/- 0.3 AU, respectively; p < 0.001). After the preseason period, very likely to almost certainly positive changes were observed for all performance measures in both age groups. However, the U-15 group had possibly superior gains in RSA(best) (+ 1.40%, 90% CL - 0.29 to 3.05, with ES = 0.35) and likely higher effects in RSA(mean) (+ 1.89%, 90% CL 0.04 to 3.70, with ES = 0.53) and PVT-CAR (+ 2.71%, 90% CL 0.35 to 5.01, with ES = 0.37) compared to the U-19 group. In conclusion, our findings demonstrate that the U-19 group accumulate higher total weekly ITLs than the U-15 group during the preseason phase due to longer and heavier training sessions. However, the U-15 group obtained superior gains in soccer-specific physical abilities while accumulating half the total ITLs during lighter training sessions.		[Cetolin, Tiago; Teixeira, Anderson Santiago; da Silva, Juliano Fernandes] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Res Grp Dev Football & Futsal, Sports Ctr, Florianopolis, SC, Brazil; [Cetolin, Tiago; Teixeira, Anderson Santiago; Antonacci Guglielmo, Luiz Guilherme] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Sports Ctr, Phys Effort Lab, Campus Univ, BR-88040900 Florianopolis, SC, Brazil; [Netto, Almir Schmitt] Univ Estado Santa Catarina, Hlth Sci & Sports Ctr, Florianopolis, SC, Brazil; [Nakamura, Fabio Yuzo] Univ Gabriele dAnnunzio Chieti Pescara, Dept Med & Aging Sci, Pescara, Italy; [Nakamura, Fabio Yuzo] Nucleus High Performance Sport, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Nakamura, Fabio Yuzo] James Cook Univ, Coll Healthcare Sci, Townsville, Qld, Australia; [Haupenthal, Alessandro] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Rheumatol Lab, Resources, Aging, Ararangua, SC, Brazil; [Teixeira, Anderson Santiago] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Sports Ctr, Phys Effort Lab, Campus Univ, BR-88040900 Florianopolis, SC, Brazil								9							Sport Sciences	WOS:000456344200021	50	Article; Article		
J	Brito, Angelo; Roriz, Paulo; Silva, Pedro; Duarte, Ricardo; Garganta, Julio								Effects of the Pitch Surface on Displacement of Youth Players During Soccer Match-Play								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				65	1			175	185		10.2478/hukin-2018-0046			DEC 2018	2018	The aim of this study was to analyze the effect of different pitch surfaces (artificial turf, natural turf and dirt field) on positioning and displacement of young soccer players (age: 13.4 +/- 0.5 yrs; body height: 161.82 +/- 7.52 cm; body mass: 50.79 +/- 7.22 kg and playing experience: 3.5 +/- 1.4 yrs). Data were collected using GPS units which allowed to calculate spatial distribution variability, assessed by measuring entropy of individual distribution maps (ShannEn). Ellipsoidal areas (m2) representing players' displacement on the pitch, centred on the average players' positional coordinates, were also calculated, with axes corresponding to the standard deviations of the displacement in the longitudinal and lateral directions. Analysis of variance (ANOVA) was used to evaluate differences between pitch surfaces and across players' positions. There was significant effect in positioning (eta 2 = 0.146; p < 0.001) and displacement (eta 2 = 0.063; p < 0.05) by the players between pitch surfaces. A dirt field condition induced an increase in the players' movement variability, while players' displacement was more restricted when playing on artificial turf. Also, there were significant effects on positioning (eta 2 = 0.496; p < 0.001) and displacement (eta 2 = 0.339; p < 0.001) across players' positions. Central midfielders presented the greatest movement variability and displacement while fullbacks showed the lowest variability. Subsequently, the results may contribute to implement strategies that optimise players' performance in different surface conditions.		[Brito, Angelo; Silva, Pedro; Garganta, Julio] Univ Porto, Fac Sport, CIFI2D Ctr Res Educ Innovat & Intervent Sport, Porto, Portugal; [Roriz, Paulo] INESC TEC, CIDESD ISMAI, Porto, Portugal; [Roriz, Paulo] LABIOMEP, Porto, Portugal; [Duarte, Ricardo] Univ Lisbon, Fac Human Kinet, CIPER, SpertLab, Cruz Quebrada, Portugal; [Brito, Angelo] Univ Porto, Fac Sport, CIFI2D Ctr Res Educ Innovat & Intervent Sport, Porto, Portugal								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:000456344200015	29	Article; Article		
J	Sinclair, Jonathan; Butters, Bobbie; Stainton, Philip								Acute Effects of Barefoot And Minimalist Footwear on Medial Tibiofemoral Compartment Loading During Running: A Statistical Parametric Mapping Approach								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				65	1			35	44		10.2478/hukin-2018-0037			DEC 2018	2018	The current investigation examined the effects of running barefoot and in minimalist footwear on medial tibiofemoral compartment loading, compared to conventional running trainers. Fifteen male runners ran over a force platform in five different footwear conditions (barefoot, Vibram five-fingers (Footwear A), Inov-8 (Footwear B) Nike-Free (Footwear C), and running trainer) whilst lower extremity kinematics were examined using a three-dimensional camera system. Medial compartment loading during the stance phase was explored using the knee adduction moment (KAM). In addition, the KAM instantaneous load rate was also calculated. Differences between footwear across the entire stance phase were examined using 1-dimensional statistical parametric mapping, whereas differences in discrete parameters were explored using one-way repeated measures ANOVA. Statistical parametric mapping revealed that Footwear B was associated with a significantly larger KAM compared to the running trainer from 15-20 and 25-30% of the stance phase and also Footwear C from 15-20% of the stance phase. The KAM instantaneous load rate was significantly larger in the barefoot (210.69 Nm/kg/s), Footwear A (200.23 Nm/kg/s) and Footwear B (186.03 Nm/kg/s) conditions in comparison to Footwear C (100.88 Nm/kg/s) and running trainers (92.70 Nm/kg/s). The findings from this study indicate that running barefoot and in minimalist footwear with the least midsole interface may place runners at increased risk of medial compartment knee OA, although further exploration using habitual barefoot / minimalist footwear users is required.		[Sinclair, Jonathan; Butters, Bobbie; Stainton, Philip] Univ Cent Lancashire, Ctr Appl Sport & Exercise Sci, Preston, Lancs, England; [Sinclair, Jonathan] Univ Cent Lancashire, Ctr Appl Sport & Exercise Sci, Fac Hlth & Wellbeing, Preston PR1 2HE, Lancs, England								9							Sport Sciences	WOS:000456344200003	20	Article; Article		
J	Donaldson, Alex; Callaghan, Aisling; Bizzini, Mario; Jowett, Andrew; Keyzer, Patrick; Nicholson, Matthew								Awareness and use of the 11+injury prevention program among coaches of adolescent female football teams								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	6			929	938		10.1177/1747954118787654			DEC 2018	2018	Coaches are essential to participant safety, particularly by implementing injury prevention programs. The evidence-based injury prevention programs developed by sports scientists will not prevent injuries in real-world sports settings if they are not properly implemented. This study investigated the knowledge and use of the highly efficacious 11+ injury prevention program among coaches of adolescent, female football teams, in Victoria, Australia. A cross-sectional online survey based on the RE-AIM framework identified that nearly half (42%) of the 64 respondents (response rate = 36%) were not aware of the 11+, and only one-third (31%) reported using it. Three-quarters (74%) of the 19 respondents who reported on the 11+ components they used, did not use the entire program. Nearly half (44%) of the 18 respondents who reported the frequency with which they used the 11+, used it less than the recommended twice a week. Barriers to implementing the 11+ included: limited awareness of the 11+; lack of knowledge about how to implement it; not having time to implement it; and believing that the 11+ does not incorporate appropriate progression. This study suggests that it is unlikely that the 11+ prevents a significant number of injuries in real-world football settings due to the lack of awareness and use among coaches. Football-governing bodies should use evidence-based strategies to raise awareness of the 11+, build coach competency to implement it, and address time-related implementation barriers that coaches experience. Coaches should keep up-to-date with injury prevention research evidence and prioritize injury prevention at training, including allocating time to implement injury prevention programs properly.		[Donaldson, Alex; Nicholson, Matthew] La Trobe Univ, Ctr Sport & Social Impact, Bundoora, Vic, Australia; [Donaldson, Alex] ACRISP, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Callaghan, Aisling; Jowett, Andrew] Football Federat Victoria, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Bizzini, Mario] Schulthess Clin, Zurich, Switzerland; [Keyzer, Patrick] La Trobe Univ, Law Sch, Bundoora, Vic, Australia; [Donaldson, Alex] La Trobe Univ, Kingsway, Bundoora, Vic 3026, Australia								34							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000452267900011	42	Article; Article		
J	Christmann, Jan; Akamphuber, Max; Muellenbach, Anna Lena; Guellich, Arne								Crunch time in the NBA - The effectiveness of different play types in the endgame of close matches in professional basketball								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	6			1090	1099		10.1177/1747954118772485			DEC 2018	2018	In professional basketball, the final few possessions often determine the result of a game. The coach's decision on tactics may be critical to a team's win or loss. This study investigated offense play types in the endgame (final 120 s) of 115 close basketball matches (<= 5 points score differential) in the National Basketball Association. We video-analysed 996 plays and assessed the frequencies and outcomes of six defined play types: 1 x 1 without isolation; 1 x 1 with isolation; pick-and-roll; complex team play; inbound play; and transition play. Analyses revealed that pick-and-roll was employed the most and inbound play the least frequently. The 1 x 1 with or without isolation were the least effective play types, averaging 0.9-1.0 pts/possession. They were rather 'static' and exhibited relatively long duration, low action frequency (passes, screens, handoffs, cuts, drives) and high defence pressure on the shooter. In contrast, transition, inbound and complex team plays were the most effective (means 1.3-1.5 pts/possession). They displayed greater spatial dynamics either through motion speed (transition) or high action frequency (complex and inbound plays), and either led to over-represented uncontested shots or over-represented offensive rebounds and their effective utilisation. Pick-and-roll play was intermediate in these regards. Overall, plays led to 0.8 pts/possession when being in the lead vs. 1.4 pts/possession when being down. Increased spatial dynamics through high motion speed and/or high frequency of concatenated cooperative manoeuvres enhance the success probability of endgame play types in professional basketball.		[Christmann, Jan; Akamphuber, Max; Muellenbach, Anna Lena; Guellich, Arne] Univ Kaiserslautern, Dept Sport Sci, Erwin Schrodinger Str 57, D-67663 Kaiserslautern, Germany; [Guellich, Arne] Univ Kaiserslautern, Dept Sport Sci, Erwin Schrodinger Str 57, D-67663 Kaiserslautern, Germany								40							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000452267900030	28	Article; Article		
J	Jorgensen, Melanie; Laurence, Michelle; Quesnele, Jairus; Baldisera, Tara; Grenier, Sylvain								Women in university hockey demonstrate knowledge discordant with attitudes regarding concussions								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	6			1134	1142		10.1177/1747954118778771			DEC 2018	2018	Objective To examine the knowledge and attitudes about sport-related concussion among university athletes. Design Cross-sectional study. Setting Validated survey instrument. Subjects Seventy-two university soccer, hockey, and basketball athletes (28 males, 44 females). Main outcome measures Total athlete knowledge scores and attitude scores were measured and average scores were also determined for each sport, sex, and combinations of sport and sex. Results The average athlete knowledge total score was 28.9 +/- 2.8 (SD) out of a possible 35, and the average attitude total score was 76.4 +/- 11.8 (SD) out of a possible 98. Correlations between athlete knowledge scores and athlete attitude scores were positive in the all male athlete sample (r = 0.09, n = 28, p = .65). The same correlation in the all female athlete sample was negative (r = -.33, n = 44, p < .05). Sixteen athletes suffered a total of 21 concussions in the 2015-2016 playing season. Conclusions The present sample of university athletes have higher knowledge scores but poorer attitude about concussions. Knowledge regarding concussion did not translate into improved attitudes particularly for female hockey athletes. Coaches should consider concussion education focused on communicating facts, as well as contextual interventions and practical athlete responses to injury. Interventions should consider the differences between male and female athlete reporting tendencies in this demographic. Appropriate detection and reporting systems may help to overcome poor reporting behaviors.		[Jorgensen, Melanie; Laurence, Michelle; Grenier, Sylvain] Laurentian Univ, Sch Human Kinet, Sudbury, ON, Canada; [Quesnele, Jairus; Baldisera, Tara] Northern Ontario Sch Med, Sudbury, ON, Canada; [Grenier, Sylvain] 935 Ramsey Lake Rd, Sudbury, ON, Canada								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000452267900034	26	Article; Article		
J	Woods, Carl T.; Leicht, Anthony S.; Jones, Ben; Till, Kevin								Game-play characteristics differ between the European Super League and the National Rugby League: Implications for coaching and talent recruitment								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	6			1171	1176		10.1177/1747954118788449			DEC 2018	2018	Objectives To compare the game-play characteristics between the European Super League and the National Rugby League competitions. Methods Eleven team performance indicators were extracted from each match played by every European Super League and National Rugby League team over their respective 2016 season. Data were averaged, classified according to competition (two levels: European Super League and National Rugby League) and modelled using univariate and multivariate techniques. Specifically, effect size statistics enabled between group comparisons, while non-metric multidimensional scaling enabled multivariate insights into competition dissimilarity. Results Seven of the 11 performance indicators showed 'large' to 'very large' effects. Notably, National Rugby League game-play generated fewer 'line breaks', 'errors', 'tackles' and 'dummy half runs' relative to European Super League game-play (d > 1.2). Despite the National Rugby League generating fewer 'all runs' (d = 1.27 [0.57-1.95]), game-play in this competition generated greater 'all run distances' relative to the European Super League (d = 1.78 [1.02-2.51]). Non-metric multidimensional scaling revealed clear multivariate competition dissimilarity, with European Super League and National Rugby League teams orienting distinctive positions on the ordination surface. Further, there was a greater spread in the relative positioning of National Rugby League teams compared to European Super League teams, indicating greater team dissimilarity within the National Rugby League. Conclusions Our observations may be explained by differing competition rule interpretations, in addition to differing game strategies and player skill capabilities. Both coaches and talent recruitment managers associated with these competitions may consider our data to assist with the identification and recruitment of suitable players from these respective competitions.		[Woods, Carl T.; Leicht, Anthony S.] James Cook Univ, Discipline Sport & Exercise Sci, Townsville, Qld, Australia; [Woods, Carl T.] Port Adelaide Football Club, Football Dept, Adelaide, SA, Australia; [Jones, Ben; Till, Kevin] Leeds Beckett Univ, Inst Sport Phys Act & Leisure, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England; [Jones, Ben] Rugby Football League, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England; [Woods, Carl T.] James Cook Univ, Discipline Sport & Exercise Sci, Townsville, Qld, Australia; [Woods, Carl T.] Port Adelaide Football Club, Football Dept, Adelaide, SA, Australia								14							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000452267900039	18	Article; Article		
J	Foroughi, Behzad; Gholipour, Hassan F.; McDonald, Heath; Jafarzadeh, Behnam								Does national culture influence the turnover frequency of national football coaches? A macro-level analysis								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	6			902	911		10.1177/1747954118787492			DEC 2018	2018	This paper examines whether a national cultural characteristic (long-term orientation) influences turnover frequency of head coaches of national football teams. We use a sample covering 90 countries and apply ordinary least squares and negative binomial regressions. The results show that turnover frequency is lower in countries with pragmatic (long-term orientation) cultures than in countries with normative (short-term orientation) cultures, after controlling national team performance and institutional variables. The results also show that countries with higher levels of control over corruption have less coaching turnover.		[Foroughi, Behzad] Univ Sains Malaysia, Grad Sch Business, George Town 11800, Malaysia; [Gholipour, Hassan F.; McDonald, Heath] Swinburne Univ Technol, Swinburne Business Sch, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Jafarzadeh, Behnam] Varzesh3 Com, Tehran, Iran; [Foroughi, Behzad] Univ Sains Malaysia, Grad Sch Business, George Town 11800, Malaysia								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000452267900009	35	Article; Article		
J	Ortega-Toro, Enrique; Garcia-Angulo, Antonio; Gimenez-Egido, Jose-Maria; Garcia-Angulo, Francisco J.; Palao, Jose								Effect of modifications in rules in competition on participation of male youth goalkeepers in soccer								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	6			1040	1047		10.1177/1747954118769423			DEC 2018	2018	The purpose of this study was to assess the effect of modifications in field size, number of players, and goal size on the goalkeeper's actions in competition in male youth soccer (n = 4) (under-12). A quasi-experimental design was implemented to measure the effects of the changes in the number of players per team (8-a-side vs. 5-a-side), goal size (6 x 2 m vs. 3 x 2 m), and field size (58 x 38 m vs. 38 x 20 m) on the offensive and defensive technical and tactical actions of the goalkeeper. Four male under-12 goalkeepers (age = 11.33 +/- 0.6 years, average weekly training = 2.45 +/- 0.3 h, and years of experience = 4.8 +/- 0.9 years) were analyzed in three tournaments (8-a-side; 5-a-side; 8-a-side). The dependent variables were: defensive and offensive technical actions taken by the goalkeepers and the way their actions were carried out. The results show that in the 5-a-side soccer matches, goalkeepers carried out more defensive actions (8-a-side: 31.2 +/- 3.8; 5-a-side: 77.75 +/- 5.0; 8-a-side: 39.5 +/- 6.0; F-2,F-6 = 111,218, p = .000, eta(2) = .974; ES .998) and offensive actions (8-a-side: 58.0 +/- 7.1; 5-a-side: 84.0 +/- 13.5; 8-a-side: 58.1 +/- 9.2; F-2,F-6 = 16,257, p = .004, eta(2) = .844; ES .996) than in 8-a-side soccer matches. The reduction in field size, number of players, and goal size resulted in under-12 goalkeepers having more interaction and more variability in their actions. This information could help the different stakeholders to adapt or design the youth soccer competition rules in a way that allows goalkeepers to have more experiences.		[Ortega-Toro, Enrique; Garcia-Angulo, Antonio; Gimenez-Egido, Jose-Maria; Garcia-Angulo, Francisco J.] Univ Murcia, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Fac Sport Sci, Murcia, Spain; [Palao, Jose] Univ Wisconsin, Exercise Sci & Sport Management, Parkside, Kenosha, WI USA; [Garcia-Angulo, Antonio] Univ Murcia, Fac Sport Sci, Av Argentina San Javier, Murcia 30720, Spain								21							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000452267900024	43	Article; Article		
J	Grasten, Arto; Forsman, Hannele; Watt, Anthony								The associations and development of motivational climate, achievement goals, and physical functional skills in young floorball players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	6			958	967		10.1177/1747954118787656			DEC 2018	2018	The present study examined the associations and development of motivational climate, achievement goals, and physical functional skills in young floorball players, as simultaneous antecedents and outcomes of achievement goals and the game of floorball warrant further studies. A total of 283 male players with a mean age of 11.49 (+/-.27) years in the beginning of the data collection were followed across two measurement phases, separated by a 12-month interval. Players completed physical functional skill tests and self-report questionnaires. The findings showed that the perceptions of task-involving coaching practices that encourage learning and effort over competition were moderately related with mastery-approach, whereas perceptions of ego-involving climate were moderately linked with performance-approach and performance-avoidance. Higher mastery-avoidance was also linked with weaker aerobic endurance. Finally, performance-approach, mastery-approach, performance-avoidance, running speed, aerobic endurance, and lower limb strength improved over time. To reduce negative perceptions of mastery-avoidance and develop young floorball players' physical functional skills, it could be important that coaches promote appealing aerobic endurance activities. For instance, by providing opportunities to design or lead an activity or through formulating options representing a wide range of endurance training activities, especially among players with higher perceptions of mastery-avoidance.		[Grasten, Arto] Univ Tasmania, Fac Educ, Newnham Dr, Launceston, Tas 7250, Australia; [Forsman, Hannele] Eerikkila Sports Inst, Tammela, Finland; [Watt, Anthony] Victoria Univ, Coll Arts & Educ, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Grasten, Arto] Univ Tasmania, Fac Educ, Newnham Dr, Launceston, Tas 7250, Australia								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000452267900014	58	Article; Article		
J	Harwood, Michael J.; Yeadon, Maurice R.; King, Mark A.								Reducing the pitch length: Effects on junior cricket								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	6			1031	1039		10.1177/1747954118772482			DEC 2018	2018	The pitch lengths used for junior cricket are a subject of debate but to date there have been no studies of their influence on the game. This study evaluated the effect of reducing the pitch length on batting, bowling and fielding. County under 10 and club under 11 matches were analysed, 10 played on pitch lengths currently recommended by the England and Wales Cricket Board, 19 yd (17.37 m) or 20 yd (18.28 m), respectively, and 10 played on 16 yd (14.63 m) pitches. Differences between measures of batting, bowling and fielding were calculated to assess the effects of the shorter pitch length. In club and county matches on 16 yd, running between the wickets increased by 22 and 39%, respectively, while boundary fours and sixes decreased by 54 and 68%. Deliveries played to the Mid-wicket area decreased by 44% in club and 33% in county matches, both accompanied by a more even distribution of fielding opportunities. Club matches saw a 15% increase in playable deliveries, largely due to fewer deliveries bouncing twice. Attempted shots, full toss No balls and Wide balls changed negligibly. Playing on a shorter pitch had positive impacts for bowlers, batters and fielders, consequently resulting in matches which were more engaging. Coaches and governing bodies should consider shorter pitches as a means of enhancing junior cricket.		[Harwood, Michael J.; Yeadon, Maurice R.; King, Mark A.] Loughborough Univ, Sch Sport Exercise & Hlth Sci, Loughborough LE11 3TU, Leics, England; [Harwood, Michael J.] Loughborough Univ, Sch Sport Exercise & Hlth Sci, Loughborough LE11 3TU, Leics, England								14							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000452267900023	24	Article; Article		
J	Cronin, Lorcan D.; Allen, Justine								Examining the relationships among the coaching climate, life skills development and well-being in sport								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	6			815	827		10.1177/1747954118787949			DEC 2018	2018	Using Benson and Saito's framework for positive youth development, we investigated the relationships between the coaching climate, young people's perceived life skills development within sport, and their psychological well-being. British youth sport participants (N = 326, M-age = 13.81, range = 11-18 years) completed a survey assessing the coaching climate, participants' perceived life skills development (teamwork, goal setting, time management, emotional skills, interpersonal communication, social skills, leadership, and problem solving and decision making) and psychological well-being (self-esteem, positive affect, and satisfaction with life). In all analyses, the coaching climate was positively related to young peoples' perceived development of life skills within sport and their psychological well-being. Total life skills development (a summative score of all eight life skills scores) was positively related to all three psychological well-being indicators - providing support for the "pile-up" effect - and partially mediated the relationships between the coaching climate and participants' psychological well-being. Interpretation of the results indicated that coaches should foster the development of multiple life skills in youth sport participants, as they are associated with participants' psychological well-being. One way this can be achieved is through autonomy-supportive coaching behaviours.		[Cronin, Lorcan D.] Edge Hill Univ, Dept Sport & Phys Act, Ormskirk L39 4QP, England; [Allen, Justine] Univ Stirling, Sch Sport, Stirling, Scotland; [Cronin, Lorcan D.] Edge Hill Univ, Dept Sport & Phys Act, Ormskirk L39 4QP, England								65							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000452267900001	59	Article; Article		
J	Gomes, A. Rui; Araujo, Vasco; Resende, Rui; Ramalho, Vera								Leadership of elite coaches: The relationship among philosophy, practice, and effectiveness criteria								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	6			1120	1133		10.1177/1747954118796362			DEC 2018	2018	Coaching philosophy is an important topic in both coaching literature and education. However, there is little research regarding the way that coaches' philosophies translate into their practices. Additionally, there is very little information about the specific effectiveness criteria coaches use to evaluate their philosophies and practice. This study addresses the complex set of relationships among coaches' philosophies, perceptions of their practice, and effectiveness criteria. Ten elite coaches were selected for the study (nine males; one female), all of whom had successful careers in their respective sports. The coaches responded to an interview guide that addressed the topics of philosophy, practice, and effectiveness criteria. Deductive and inductive data analysis procedures were used to organize the collected information. The results indicated four main themes: (a) the importance of athlete motivation, (b) the importance of building a relationship with athletes based on personal respect, (c) the presence of high levels of cohesion among the team, and (d) the need for formal and informal rules that regulate the team's functioning. There were several areas in which coaches did not establish a relationship linking philosophy, practice, and effectiveness criteria. The results suggest the need to educate coaches regarding methods of establishing a relationship among their philosophies, their practices, and the effectiveness criteria they use to evaluate their performance as coaches.		[Gomes, A. Rui; Araujo, Vasco; Ramalho, Vera] Univ Minho, Sch Psychol, Campus Gualtar, P-4710057 Braga, Portugal; [Resende, Rui] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Inst Biosci, Florianopolis, SC, Brazil; Univ Inst Maia, Maia, Portugal; [Gomes, A. Rui] Univ Minho, Sch Psychol, Campus Gualtar, P-4710057 Braga, Portugal								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000452267900033	49	Article; Article		
J	Sorbie, Graeme G.; Gu, Yaodong; Baker, Julien S.; Ugbolue, Ukadike C.								Analysis of the X-Factor and X-Factor stretch during the completion of a golf practice session in low-handicap golfers								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	6			1001	1007		10.1177/1747954118791330			DEC 2018	2018	The X-Factor and X-Factor stretch have been positively correlated with golf long game performance. The aim of this study was to compare the X-Factor, X-Factor stretch and long game performance variables pre and following a golf practice session. A group of male golfers (n = 15, handicap = 3.3 +/- 1.7) participated in the laboratory-based study. Movement and performance variables were collected from five golf swings performed pre and following a golf practice session using a motion-capture system and launch monitor, respectively. Following the practice session, significant increases were observed in the X-Factor (p = 0.00, d = 0.22) and the X-Factor stretch (p = 0.02, d = 0.25). Specifically, the X-Factor increased from 52.82 +/- 5.64 degrees to 54.06 +/- 5.61 degrees following the practice session. The X-Factor stretch increased from 1.54 +/- 1.05 degrees to 1.90 +/- 1.41 degrees following the practice session. Significant differences were displayed in club head velocity (p = 0.00, d = 0.35), ball velocity (p = 0.01, d = 0.21) and actual carry distance (p = 0.00, d = 0.29) following the practice session. These findings suggest that performing multiple golf shots is not detrimental in terms of muscular fatigue in the long game performance. In actual fact, the findings demonstrate that performing 100 golf shots increases the X-Factor, X-Factor stretch patterns and performance variables which, in turn, increases the long game performance. These findings can help Professional Golfers' Association golf Professionals improve teaching practices and formulation of golf programmes and warm-up sessions.		[Sorbie, Graeme G.; Baker, Julien S.; Ugbolue, Ukadike C.] Univ West Scotland, Sch Sci & Sport, Inst Clin Exercise & Hlth Sci, Hamilton, Scotland; [Sorbie, Graeme G.] Abertay Univ, Div Sport & Exercise Sci, Dundee, Scotland; [Gu, Yaodong; Baker, Julien S.] Ningbo Univ, Fac Sports Sci, Ningbo, Zhejiang, Peoples R China; [Ugbolue, Ukadike C.] Univ Strathclyde, Dept Biomed Engn, Glasgow, Lanark, Scotland; [Sorbie, Graeme G.] Abertay Univ, Div Sport & Exercise Sci, Biomech Lab, Dundee DD1 1HG, Scotland								11							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000452267900019	32	Article; Article		
J	Sherwood, Sebastian; Masters, Rich S. W.; Smith, Tiaki Brett								Examining deceptive behaviours by attackers in rugby union: The influence of decoy runners on defensive performance								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	6			1100	1107		10.1177/1747954118800577			DEC 2018	2018	Background Deceptive tactics are commonly used in sport; however, the psychological mechanisms underpinning the effectiveness of these tactics are unclear. Increasingly, in rugby union, decoy runners are used to cause deception. Multiple players in an attacking team run option lines off the ball carrier, making it possible that any of the players could receive the ball. Runners who do not receive the ball are decoys. The aim of the tactic is for the decoys to attract attention from defending players, which creates confusion about which player will receive the ball. Aim To identify behaviours of option line runners that can be used to improve the effectiveness of this deceptive tactic. Method Observational analysis of completed scrums from the 2015 Super Rugby season (n = 260) during which decoy runners were used by the attacking side. Decoy characteristics, including Hands Up, Line Change and Hands Up with Line Change were noted following each scrum. Gainline success was used as a dependent measure of the efficacy of the decoy characteristics. Characteristics were included in a binary logistic regression analysis to develop a best-fit model for gainline success. Results Hands Up, Line Change and Hands Up with Line Change significantly improved the likelihood of gainline success seven, eight and six times, respectively. Discussion We discuss possible mechanisms that underpin the effectiveness of decoy runners and make recommendations for coaches.		[Sherwood, Sebastian; Masters, Rich S. W.; Smith, Tiaki Brett] Univ Waikato, Te Huataki Waiora Fac Hlth Sport & Human Performa, Hamilton 3240, New Zealand; [Sherwood, Sebastian] Univ Waikato, Te Huataki Waiora Fac Hlth Sport & Human Performa, Hamilton 3240, New Zealand								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000452267900031	41	Article; Article		
J	Yoon, Jungjoong; Bae, Moonjung; Kang, Hyunyong; Kim, Taegyu								Descriptive epidemiology of sports injury and illness during the Rio 2016 Olympic Games: A prospective cohort study for Korean team								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	6			939	946		10.1177/1747954118768686			DEC 2018	2018	This study aimed to analyze the characteristics of injuries and illnesses that occurred during the Rio 2016 Olympic Games for Korean team by using a prospective cohort design. In total, 204 Korean athletes competed in 24 sporting events during the Olympic Games. The entire medical staff of the Korean team recorded injuries and illnesses on a daily basis that occurred during training and competition using the International Olympic Committee injury and illness surveillance system. During the Olympic Games, 308 injuries and 73 illnesses were reported; the incidence was 150.9 injuries and 35.8 illnesses per 100 athletes. In addition, 56.3% and 24.0% of all athletes sustained at least one injury or illness, respectively. The highest rate of injuries was observed in boxing and wrestling, whereas the highest rate of illnesses was seen in boxing and swimming. Twelve percent of all injuries resulted in absenteeism from training or competition for at least 1 day. Of all infections, 75.9% occurred in the respiratory tract. In addition, 2.7% of all illnesses prevented athletes performing their sport for 1 day. These results may be used to further analyze mechanisms of injury and their risk factors in Olympic sports to develop effective preventive strategies for athletes.		[Yoon, Jungjoong; Bae, Moonjung; Kang, Hyunyong] Korean Sport & Olymp Comm, Dept Sports Med & Sci, Taereung Natl Training Ctr, Seoul, South Korea; [Kim, Taegyu] Pukyong Natl Univ, Dept Marine Sports, Busan 48513, South Korea; [Kim, Taegyu] Pukyong Natl Univ, Dept Marine Sports, Busan 48513, South Korea								14							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000452267900012	32	Article; Article		
J	Perez-Ferreiros, Alexandra; Kalen, Anton; Rey, Ezequiel								Short- and mid-term effects of the 2010 rule changes on game-related statistics in European basketball championships: An interrupted time series analysis								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	6			1081	1089		10.1177/1747954118765738			DEC 2018	2018	In 2010, one of the major rule changes in basketball came into effect. Including an extension of the 3-point line from 6.25 m to 6.75 m, changed shape of the 3-s area, the addition of no-charge semicircles, and modifications of the shot-clock. This study aimed to analyse if the rule modifications influenced the game-related statistics, both short- and mid-term using interrupted time series analysis, and if the rule changes had the same influence on different age groups and genders. The sample was composed by 5296 games from the European championships 2005-2016 for men and women in both senior and youth competitions. The standard game-related statistics were analysed. The game pace has increased or ceased to decrease after the rule modifications. The development towards a higher proportion of field goals being 3-pointers has continued, although the proportion was lowered directly after the rule modifications. The women senior seems to be the category where the rule modifications had the most effect on the continuous development. No general pattern of differences in effects between categories was found.		[Perez-Ferreiros, Alexandra; Kalen, Anton; Rey, Ezequiel] Univ Vigo, Fac Educ & Sport Sci, Campus Univ A Xunqueira S-N, Pontevedra 36005, Spain; [Kalen, Anton] Univ Vigo, Fac Educ & Sport Sci, Campus Univ A Xunqueira S-N, Pontevedra 36005, Spain								8							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000452267900029	43	Article; Article		
J	Cassidy, Tania								'I didn't have to tackle humungus people': An ecological investigation into a dispensation policy in New Zealand Junior Rugby								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	6			947	957		10.1177/1747954118769181			DEC 2018	2018	The purpose of the study was to gain insight into the perceptions, experiences and practices of stakeholders, i.e. players, coaches and parents, involved in players being dispensated to play down a grade due to their small stature at one New Zealand metropolitan rugby union club. The discussion is organized around the perceptions, experiences, and practices of the various stakeholders and provides insight into how the various stakeholders perceive and experience the dispensation process. Bronfenbrenner's work was used to inform the design of the current study and the subsequent analysis because his ecological systems model of development is a generative and evolving conceptual framework for analysing human development throughout the life course as well as providing opportunities for development to be studied from the perspective of the person and their environment. The findings of this study provide insight for those involved in sports where playing numbers drop off round the teenage years. In addition, the findings contribute to further understanding the role emotions play in sport coaching, the 'birthdate effect', and 'relative age effect', the importance of developing connection, competence and confidence when focusing on youth development, the weight young people place on playing with friends as motivation to continue to playing sport.		[Cassidy, Tania] Univ Otago, Sch Phys Educ Sport & Exercise Sci, POB 56, Dunedin, New Zealand; [Cassidy, Tania] Univ Otago, Sch Phys Educ Sport & Exercise Sci, POB 56, Dunedin, New Zealand								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000452267900013	49	Article; Article		
J	Redden, James; Stokes, Keith; Williams, Sean								Establishing the Reliability and Limits of Meaningful Change of Lower Limb Strength and Power Measures during Seated Leg Press in Elite Soccer Players								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				17	4			539	546					DEC 2018	2018	Measurement of lower limb strength, power and asymmetries of soccer players is important for monitoring physical development and injury risk. The aim of the present study was to establish the reliability and limits of meaningful change of single and double leg maximal strength, power and bilateral imbalance measures in elite soccer players using a pneumatic resistance based seated leg press. Thirteen participants undertook an incremental resistance leg press test on three separate testing days within a seven day period. Paired t-tests established no significant differences (p > 0.156) between consecutive tests, whilst 'good' reliability (intraclass correlation coefficient-ICC >0.762) and acceptable typical percentage errors (< 6.9%) were observed for maximal resistance, velocity and force pushed as well as average and peak power outputs. Imbalance variables accounting for left and right leg average power output across all repetitions were established as the most reliable imbalance variables, with 'good' reliability (ICC > 0.874) and absolute typical error values of 2.1%. Imbalance variables calculated using peak power output or average power output from the last 4 repetitions resulted in weaker reliability (ICC < 0.657) and significant differences between tests, and therefore were considered less suitable for applied use. Subsequently, to better inform the practitioner, limits of meaningful change were calculated for all strength, power and imbalance variables. The current study shows that lower limb strength, and power output variables and average imbalance measures of soccer players assessed through a seated leg press protocol show acceptable levels of reliability, and provides practitioners with limits of meaningful change around parameters to better evaluate test results.		[Redden, James] Tottenham Hotspur Football Club, London, England; [Redden, James; Stokes, Keith; Williams, Sean] Univ Bath, Dept Hlth, Bath, Avon, England; [Redden, James] Tottenham Hotspur Training Ctr, Hotspur Way,Whitewebbs Lane, Enfield EN2 9AP, Middx, England								25							Sport Sciences	WOS:000450645700004	41	Article; Article		
J	Castizo-Olier, Jorge; Carrasco-Marginet, Marta; Roy, Alex; Chaverri, Diego; Iglesias, Xavier; Perez-Chirinos, Carla; Rodriguez, Ferran; Irurtia, Alfredo								Bioelectrical Impedance Vector Analysis (BIVA) and Body Mass Changes in an Ultra-Endurance Triathlon Event								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				17	4			571	579					DEC 2018	2018	This study aimed to provide the first description of the whole-body bioimpedance vector of nine non-professional triathletes, and to assess body mass (BM) and vector variations evoked by an ultra-endurance triathlon event. Anthropometric and bioelectrical assessments were performed before (PRE), after (POST), and 48 hours following the race (POST48h). Bioimpedance vector analysis (BIVA) showed triathletes vectors placed to the left of the major axis and mostly outside the 50% tolerance ellipse of the reference population. Vector migration in POST indicated dehydration, paralleled by a decrease in BM (p = 0.0001). Increased hydration status from POST to POST48h was suggested by a reversed vector migration and increased BM (p = 0.0001). Compared to PRE, POST48h values reflected fluid retention by changes in BIVA, while BM was still lower (p = 0.0001). Racing time was positively related to basal resistance -R/h- (r = 0.68; p = 0.04) and bioimpedance -Z/h- (r = 0.68; p = 0.045). Besides, basal R/h and Z/h were positively related to PRE-to-POST changes of R/h and Z/h (r = 0.80; p = 0.009). PRE-to-POST changes of R/h and Z/h were positively related to racing time (r = 0.80, p = 0.01) and internal workload (r = 0.80, p <= 0.02). Notwithstanding the lack of significant correlation between BM and bioelectrical parameters, the vector's behavior was explained from a multifactorial perspective (including BM variations) by using multiple regression analysis. On the other hand, BM changes were not related to racing time, internal workload or energy deficit (ranges: r = - 0.46 to 0.65; p = 0.06 to 0.98). In conclusion, these triathletes exhibit a specific bioelectrical distribution. Furthermore, vector migration was consistent with fluid loss induced by the event. Finally, vector analysis seems to provide additional information about hydration changes 48h after the event in comparison with BM alone.		[Castizo-Olier, Jorge; Carrasco-Marginet, Marta; Roy, Alex; Chaverri, Diego; Iglesias, Xavier; Perez-Chirinos, Carla; Rodriguez, Ferran; Irurtia, Alfredo] UB, INEFC, Barcelona, Spain; [Castizo-Olier, Jorge; Carrasco-Marginet, Marta; Chaverri, Diego; Iglesias, Xavier; Rodriguez, Ferran; Irurtia, Alfredo] INEFC Barcelona Sport Sci Res Grp, Barcelona, Spain; [Irurtia, Alfredo] UB, INEFC, Barcelona Sport Sci Res Grp, Avinguda Estadi 12-22, Barcelona 08038, Spain								19							Sport Sciences	WOS:000450645700008	66	Article; Article		
J	Tokutake, Gaku; Kuramochi, Rieko; Murata, Yuki; Enoki, Shota; Koto, Yuki; Shimizu, Takuya								The Risk Factors of Hamstring Strain Injury Induced by High-Speed Running								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				17	4			650	655					DEC 2018	2018	Hamstring strain injury is a multifactorial and complex problem involving interactions among various factors. Information about risk factors for this injury is inconsistent among studies because the strong effects of confounding factors and injury situations are often ignored. We investigated the relationship between hamstring strain induced by high-speed running and intrinsic risk factors, including hip muscle morphology and function, by excluding the influences of confounding factors. Sixty-one male track and field athletes (age, 19.6 +/- 1.1 years; 95% confidence interval, 19.3-19.9) who often performed high-speed running were monitored throughout one season. Before the season, we measured hip and knee strength, muscle thickness of the gluteus maximus and biceps femoris, and hip and knee joint range of motion (ROM). We also obtained information about each athlete's history of hamstring injury by questionnaire. Eighteen athletes sustained hamstring strain injuries induced by high-speed running. Eighteen uninjured athletes who had the same profile of confounding factors as the injured athletes were selected as controls. Previously injured athletes had a significantly higher injury rate than uninjured athletes (p < .05; odds ratio, 2.85). No other measurements had a significant relationship with the occurrence of injury. However, passive hip ROM (flexion and extension) tended to be larger in the injured than control group. A history of hamstring strain was a strong risk factor for hamstring strain injury, and it may affect other factors. Therefore, the risk factors for hamstring strain injury should be investigated by eliminating the impact of a history of hamstring strain.		[Tokutake, Gaku; Kuramochi, Rieko; Enoki, Shota; Koto, Yuki; Shimizu, Takuya] Chukyo Univ, Grad Sch Hlth & Sport Sci, Tokodachi 101, Toyota, Aichi 4700393, Japan; [Kuramochi, Rieko; Shimizu, Takuya] Chukyo Univ, Sch Hlth & Sport Sci, Aichi, Japan; [Murata, Yuki] Nagoya Univ, Grad Sch Educ & Human Dev, Aichi, Japan; [Kuramochi, Rieko] Chukyo Univ, Grad Sch Hlth & Sport Sci, Tokodachi 101, Toyota, Aichi 4700393, Japan								26							Sport Sciences	WOS:000450645700017	18	Article; Article		
J	Zhang, Xini; Xia, Rui; Dai, Boyi; Sun, Xiaole; Fu, Weijie								Effects of Exercise-Induced Fatigue on Lower Extremity Joint Mechanics, Stiffness, and Energy Absorption during Landings								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				17	4			640	649					DEC 2018	2018	The aim of this study was to determine the effects of two fatigue protocols on lower-limb joint mechanics, stiffness and energy absorption during drop landings. Fifteen male athletes completed landing tasks before and after two fatigue protocols (constant speed running [R-FP] and repeated shuttle sprint plus vertical jump [SJ-FP]). Sagittal plane lower-limb kinematics and ground reaction forces were recorded. Compared with R-FP, SJ-FP required significantly less intervention time to produce a fatigue state. The ranges of motion (RoM) of the hip were significantly greater when the athletes were fatigued for both protocols. Knee RoM significantly increased after SJ-FP but not after R-FP (p > 0.05), whereas the RoM of the ankle was significantly greater after R-FP but lower after SJ-FP. When fatigued, the first peak knee extension moment was significantly greater in R-FP but lower in SJ-FP; the second peak ankle plantar flexion moment was lower, regardless of protocols. After fatigue, vertical, hip, and knee stiffness was lower, and more energy was absorbed at the hip and knee for both protocols. Hip and knee extensors played a crucial role in altering movement control strategies to maintain similar impact forces and to dissipate more energy through a flexed landing posture when fatigued compared to when non-fatigued. Furthermore, SJ-FP seems to be a more efficient method to induce fatigue due to less intervention time than R-FP.		[Zhang, Xini; Xia, Rui; Sun, Xiaole; Fu, Weijie] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Kinesiol, Shanghai 200438, Peoples R China; [Dai, Boyi] Univ Wyoming, Dept Kinesiol & Hlth, Laramie, WY 82070 USA; [Fu, Weijie] Shanghai Univ Sport, Minist Educ, Key Lab Exercise & Hlth Sci, Shanghai 200438, Peoples R China; [Fu, Weijie] Shanghai Univ Sport, Minist Educ, Key Lab Exercise & Hlth Sci, Shanghai 200438, Peoples R China								34							Sport Sciences	WOS:000450645700016	49	Article; Article		
J	Young, James D.; Spence, Alyssa-Joy; Power, Gerard; Behm, David G.								The Addition of Transcutaneous Electrical Nerve Stimulation with Roller Massage Alone or in Combination Did Not Increase Pain Tolerance or Range of Motion								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				17	4			525	532					DEC 2018	2018	Roller massage (RM) can be painful and induce muscle activity during application. Acute increases in pain pressure threshold (PPT) and range of motion (ROM) have been previously reported following RM. It is unclear whether the RM-induced increases in PPT and ROM can be attributed to changes in neural or muscle responses. To help determine if neural pain pathways are affected by roller massage, transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS) was utilized as a form of electroanalgesia during RM with PPT and ROM tested on the affected and contralateral quadriceps. The purpose of this study was to evaluate in both quadriceps, the effect of brief intense TENS on PPT and ROM following unilateral RM of the quadriceps. A randomized within subjects' design was used to examine local and non-local effects of TENS and roller massage versus a control condition (rolling without TENS application). Four 30s bouts of roller massage of the dominant quadriceps were implemented with 30s of rest. The researcher applied the RM using a constant pressure device with approximately 70% of the maximum tolerable load. Perceived pain was monitored using a visual analog scale (VAS) during RM. Ipsilateral and contralateral quadriceps ROM and PPT were measured immediately following RM. Significant main effects for time showed increased PPT and ROM in both the treated and contralateral quadriceps, with no significant main effects for intervention or interactions for intervention and time. Moderate to large effect sizes and minimal clinically important differences (MCID) were detected when comparing baseline to pre- and post-tests respectively. VAS scores were significantly (main effect for intervention) and near significantly (interactions) reduced with MCID when TENS was applied during rolling. The addition of TENS to rolling did not increase PPT or ROM in the affected or contralateral quadriceps, likely due to a repeated testing effect.		[Young, James D.; Spence, Alyssa-Joy; Power, Gerard; Behm, David G.] Mem Univ Newfoundland, Sch Human Kinet & Recreat, St John, NB A1C 5S7, Canada; [Behm, David G.] Mem Univ Newfoundland, Sch Human Kinet & Recreat, St John, NB A1C 5S7, Canada								6							Sport Sciences	WOS:000450645700002	57	Article; Article		
J	Roach, Michael A.								Testing Labor Market Efficiency Across Position Groups in the NFL								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				19	8			1093	1121		10.1177/1527002517704021			DEC 2018	2018	This article proposes a new metric to proxy for the incidence of player absences faced by National Football League teams based on the percentage of team payroll resources that are inactive over the course of a season. This variable significantly predicts team performance. Calculating this measure for individual position groups allows me to test for differences in the marginal impact of salary resources across these groups. Results indicate that resources dedicated to offense, in particular to offensive linemen and starting quarterbacks, have the highest marginal impact on team performance. This suggests a market inefficiency where these players were relatively underpaid.		[Roach, Michael A.] Middle Tennessee State Univ, Dept Econ & Finance, MTSU Box 27, Murfreesboro, TN 37132 USA; [Roach, Michael A.] Middle Tennessee State Univ, Dept Econ & Finance, MTSU Box 27, Murfreesboro, TN 37132 USA								9							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000449808800002	35	Article; Article		
J	Yildizparlak, Anil								An Application of Contest Success Functions for Draws on European Soccer								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				19	8			1191	1212		10.1177/1527002517716973			DEC 2018	2018	A contest success function (success function) maps the level of efforts into winning and losing probabilities in contest theory. We aim to assess the empirical performance of success functions for draws and analyze the differences between European soccer leagues in terms of home bias, return on talent (ROT), and talent inequality. We use a data set with 10,569 matches acquired manually from containing club-based average market values of the lineup of teams for each match played through 12 seasons from 7 major European soccer leagues. The results are obtained estimating the parameters of the success functions with a general maximum-likelihood method, and the hypotheses suggested by success functions are controlled with a probit regression. Two of the success functions outperform one conclusively. The difference in the performance between these two groups results from the contrast in the main determinant of the success function in allocating the probability of a draw. The high-performing success functions take difference in aggregate talent levels as the main determinant in drawing, while the other takes the aggregate talent as the main determinant. The results also show that there are major differences across leagues in terms of ROT, home bias, and talent inequality, despite the similarities in economic environment and the homogeneity in the rules of the game imposed across leagues. Our analysis sheds light on the contributions and implications of microeconomic theory to model sports and presents the differing characteristics of the European soccer leagues that impact match results significantly.		[Yildizparlak, Anil] Univ Durham, Business Sch, Mill Hill Lane, Durham DH1 3LB, England; [Yildizparlak, Anil] Univ Durham, Business Sch, Mill Hill Lane, Durham DH1 3LB, England								9							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000449808800006	41	Article; Article		
J	McIntosh, Sam; Kovalchik, Stephanie; Robertson, Sam								Validation of the Australian Football League Player Ratings								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	6			1064	1071		10.1177/1747954118758000			DEC 2018	2018	This study investigated the validity of the official Australian Football League Player Ratings system. It also aimed to determine the extent to which the distribution of points across the 13 rating subcategories could explain Australian Football League match outcome. Ratings were obtained for each player from Australian Football League matches played during the 2013-2016 seasons, along with the corresponding match outcome (Win/Loss and score margin). The values for each of the 13 subcategories that comprise the ratings were also obtained for the 2016 season. Total team rating scores were derived as an objective team outcome for each match. Percentage agreement and Pearson correlational analyses revealed that winning teams displayed a higher total team rating in 94.2% of matches and an association of r = 0.96 (95% confidence interval = 0.95-0.96) between match score margin and total team rating differential, respectively. A Partial Decision Tree (PART) analysis resulted in seven rules capable of determining the extent to which relative contributions of rating subcategories explain Win/Loss at an accuracy of 79.3%. These models support the validity of the Australian Football League Player Ratings system and its use as a pertinent system for objective player analyses in the Australian Football League.		[McIntosh, Sam; Kovalchik, Stephanie; Robertson, Sam] Victoria Univ, Coll Sport & Exercise Sci, Inst Sport Exercise & Act Living, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [McIntosh, Sam] Western Bulldogs, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [McIntosh, Sam] Victoria Univ, Inst Sport Exercise & Act Living, Melbourne, Vic 3011, Australia								23							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000452267900027	24	Article; Article		
J	Nakagawa, Theresa H.; Petersen, Rafael S.								Relationship of hip and ankle range of motion, trunk muscle endurance with knee valgus and dynamic balance in males								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				34				174	179		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.10.006			NOV 2018	2018	Objectives: Investigate the relationship of hip internal rotation (IR) and ankle dorsiflexion (DF) range of motion (ROM), trunk flexor, extensor, and lateral flexor muscle endurance with frontal plane knee projection angle (FPKPA) and Y-balance test (YBT). Study design: Cross-sectional study. Setting: Armed Force training site. Participants: 121 healthy male militaries with no history of musculoskeletal injury in the last 6 months. Main outcomes: FPKPA was evaluated during single-leg squat. YBT was assessed on the anterior, posterolateral and posteromedial directions. Passive hip IR ROM and weight-bearing ankle DF ROM were measured with a digital inclinometer. Trunk muscle endurance was measured as the time the participant could hold the positions. Results: FPKPA was predicted by ankle DF ROM and hip IR ROM (r(2) = 0340; P = 0.009). For YBT anterior, ankle DF ROM was the only predictor (r(2) = 0.32; P < 0.001); whereas trunk extensor endurance predicted YBT posterolateral (r(2) = 0.273; P < 0.001) and YBT posteromedial (r(2) = 0.033; P = 0.045). Conclusion: The results suggest that increasing hip stiffness and ankle mobility might help to control dynamic knee alignment. In addition, the dynamic balance could be improved increasing ankle DF ROM and trunk extensor endurance. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Nakagawa, Theresa H.] Ctr Univ North, Dept Phys Therapy, Rua Joaquim Nabuco,1323 Ctr, BR-69010060 Manaus, AM, Brazil; [Nakagawa, Theresa H.; Petersen, Rafael S.] Leonidas & Maria Deane Inst Fiocruz Amazonia, Dept Occupat Hlth, Rua Teresina,476 Adrianopolis, BR-69057070 Manaus, AM, Brazil; [Nakagawa, Theresa H.] Ctr Univ North, Rua Joaquim Nabuco,1323 Ctr, BR-69010060 Manaus, AM, Brazil								40							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000452940100023	33	Article; Article		
J	Rosa, Dayana P.; Camargo, Paula R.; Borstad, John D.								The influence of posterior glenohumeral joint capsule tightness and humeral retroversion on clinical measurements								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				34				148	153		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.10.003			NOV 2018	2018	Objectives: To assess the influence of posterior capsule tightness and humeral retroversion on shoulder motion measurements. Design: Cross-Sectional study. Setting: Controlled university laboratory. Participants: 75 asymptomatic individuals were assigned to one of 4 groups: control (n = 28); posterior capsule tightness only (n = 17); humeral retroversion only (n = 15); and combined posterior capsule tightness and retroversion (n = 15). Main outcome measures: Six clinical measurements were compared across groups: bicipital forearm angle, low flexion, glenohumeral internal and external rotation, horizontal adduction and extension with internal rotation. Results: The group with both adaptations had decreased internal rotation compared to the control and retroversion only groups, as well as increased external rotation compared to the control and posterior capsule only groups. There were no between group differences for the horizontal adduction or extension with internal rotation measurements. The retroversion only and combined groups showed decreased bicipital forearm angle compared with the control and posterior tightness groups. The posterior capsule tightness and combined groups demonstrated decreased low flexion compared to the other groups. Conclusion: The combination of osseous and soft tissue adaptions alter shoulder motion measures more than a single adaption, making a comprehensive clinical assessment vital when managing individuals with shoulder pain. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Rosa, Dayana P.; Camargo, Paula R.] Univ Fed Sao Carlos, Dept Phys Therapist, Lab Anal & Intervent Shoulder Complex, Sao Carlos, SP, Brazil; [Borstad, John D.] Coll St Scholastica, Dept Phys Therapy, Duluth, MN USA; [Borstad, John D.] Coll St Scholastica, Phys Therapy Dept, Sch Hlth Sci, 940 Woodland Ave, Duluth, MN 55812 USA								5							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000452940100020	34	Article; Article		
J	Ho, Kai-Yu; French, Theresa; Klein, Brooks; Lee, Young								Patellofemoral joint stress during incline and decline running								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				34				136	140		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.09.010			NOV 2018	2018	Objectives: To compare patellofemoral joint (PFJ) stress between level, incline, and decline running. Design: Experimental study. Setting: University laboratory. Participants: Twenty recreational runners. Main outcome measures: Kinematics and kinetics of the trunk and lower extremity were obtained under 3 treadmill conditions: level, 6 degrees incline, and 6 degrees decline. PFJ stress, PFJ reaction force, and PFJ contact area were determined using a biomechanical model. One-way ANOVAs with repeated measures and post -hoc analyses were used to compare outcome variables across the 3 conditions. Results: Peak PFJ stress and PFJ stress-time integral (cumulative PFJ stress over the stance phase) during decline running were significantly higher than during level and incline running. There was no difference in peak PFJ stress and PFJ stress-time integral between level and incline running. The increased peak PFJ stress during decline running was related to increased PFJ reaction force, resulting from a decrease in trunk flexion angle. Conclusions: Running on a decline treadmill resulted in higher peak PFJ stress and stress-time integral. Peak PFJ stress and PFJ stress-time integral were similar during level and incline running. Results from this study may be used to prevent excessive PFJ stress during decline running, by targeting a postural strategy utilizing increased trunk flexion. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Ho, Kai-Yu; French, Theresa; Klein, Brooks; Lee, Young] Univ Nevada, Dept Phys Therapy, 4505 S Maryland Pkwy,Box 453029, Las Vegas, NV 89154 USA; [Ho, Kai-Yu] Univ Nevada, Dept Phys Therapy, 4505 S Maryland Pkwy,Box 453029, Las Vegas, NV 89154 USA								8							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000452940100018	27	Article; Article		
J	Korakakis, Vasileios; Whiteley, Rodney; Giakas, Giannis								Low load resistance training with blood flow restriction decreases anterior knee pain more than resistance training alone. A pilot randomised controlled trial								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				34				121	128		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.09.007			NOV 2018	2018	Objectives: To evaluate if application of blood flow restriction (BFR) combined with low-load resistance training (LLRT) would induce significant anterior knee pain (AKP) reduction compared to LLRT alone. Design: Randomised Controlled Trial. Setting: Institutional physiotherapy clinic. Participants: Forty males suffering from AKP were randomly allocated in the LLRT-BFR or LLRT group. BFR was applied at 80% of complete vascular occlusion. Four sets of open kinetic chain knee extensions were implemented in both groups using a pain monitoring model. Main outcome measures: Pain (0-10) was assessed immediately after LLRT-BFR or LLRT application and after a physiotherapy session (45 min) during shallow and deep single -leg squat (SLSS, SLSD), and step-down test (SDT). Results: Significant immediate pain reduction was found in LLRT-BFR group in SLSS, SLSD and SDT (d = 1.32, d = 1.12, d = 0.88 respectively), but no difference was found in LLRT group. Following the physiotherapy session pain reduction was sustained in LLRT-BFR group in both SLSs and SDT (d = 1.32, d = 0.78, d = 0.89 respectively). For the control group significant pain reduction was only found in SLSs (d = 0.56). No significant between-group differences were observed. Conclusions: The pain reduction induced by LLRT-BFR could indicate this intervention as a preconditioning process prior to the rehabilitation of AKP. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Korakakis, Vasileios; Whiteley, Rodney; Giakas, Giannis] Aspetar, Orthopaed & Sports Med Hosp, Doha, Qatar; [Korakakis, Vasileios] Univ Thessaly, Fac Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Trikala, Greece; [Korakakis, Vasileios] Orthopaed & Sports Med Hosp, POB 29222, Doha, Qatar								66							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000452940100016	24	Article; Article		
J	Rabin, Alon; Chechik, Ofir; Dolkart, Oleg; Goldstein, Yariv; Maman, Eran								A positive scapular assistance test is equally present in various shoulder disorders but more commonly found among patients with scapular dyskinesis								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				34				129	135		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.09.008			NOV 2018	2018	Objective: Assess the frequency of a positive scapular assistance test (SAT) in different shoulder disorders and establish its association with scapular dyskinesis. Design: Cross-sectional. Setting: Shoulder clinic. Participants: Seventy-four patients. Main outcome measures: The SAT and visual assessment of scapular movement were performed by a physical therapist. An orthopaedic surgeon classified participants into 4 diagnostic categories: rotator cuff disease, superior labrum anterior posterior lesion (SLAP), shoulder instability, and other. Results: Twenty-seven (36.5%) participants presented with a positive SAT. The SAT was positive among 9 of 28 participants (32.1%) with rotator cuff disease, 7 of 23 participants (30.4%) with SLAP lesions, 9 of 21 participants (42.9%) with shoulder instability, and 2 of 2 participants (100.0%) with other pathologies. The frequency of a positive SAT did not differ between the various diagnostic categories (P = 0.64). The SAT was more frequently positive among participants with scapular dyskinesis (48.5% versus 26.8%, P = 0.05). Conclusions: The SAT is found similarly positive among patients with various common shoulder disorders. Although associated with scapular dyskinesis, the SAT was positive in less than half of those demonstrating scapular dyskinesis suggesting the SAT may help identify patients in whom altered scapular movement is contributing to shoulder pain. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Rabin, Alon] Ariel Univ, Dept Physiotherapy, POB 3, Ariel, Israel; [Chechik, Ofir; Dolkart, Oleg; Goldstein, Yariv; Maman, Eran] Tel Aviv Med Ctr & Sch Med, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Tel Aviv, Israel; [Rabin, Alon] Ariel Univ, Dept Physiotherapy, POB 3, Ariel, Israel								12							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000452940100017	36	Article; Article		
J	Geremia, Jeam Marcel; Baroni, Bruno Manfredini; Lanferdini, Fabio Juner; Bini, Rodrigo Rico; Sonda, Francesca Chaida; Vaz, Marco Aurelio								Time course of neuromechanical and morphological adaptations to triceps surae isokinetic eccentric training								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				34				84	91		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.09.003			NOV 2018	2018	Objectives: To document the magnitude and the time course of neuromechanical and morphological adaptations in response to a triceps surae eccentric training program. Methods: Twenty healthy male subjects completed a control period followed by a 12-week isokinetic eccentric training program. Triceps surae neuromechanical and morphological evaluations were performed every 4 weeks. Results: The training program led to increases in: eccentric (32%), isometric (13%) and concentric (20%) torques; eccentric (32%) and isometric (24%) electromyographic activity; and, muscle thickness (14%). Torque and muscle thickness increased until the 8th training week. Eccentric and isometric activation increased until the 4th training week. No change was found in concentric activation. The angles of peak torque in eccentric and concentric tests shifted towards longer muscle lengths. While eccentric and isometric strength gains are explained by increased neural activation and muscle mass, changes in concentric torque are not related to neural effects. Conclusions: Eccentric training led to increases in maximum eccentric and isometric force production due to adaptations in muscle activation and muscle mass. Among the advantages of the shift in the optimal length for force production towards longer lengths, are the increased total joint range of motion and a lower predisposition for muscle strain injuries. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Geremia, Jeam Marcel] Univ Fed Santa Maria, Ctr Educ Fis & Desportos, Lab Biomecan, Santa Maria, RS, Brazil; [Baroni, Bruno Manfredini] Univ Fed Ciencias Saude Porto Alegre, Programa Posgrad Ciencias Reabilitacao, Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil; [Lanferdini, Fabio Juner; Sonda, Francesca Chaida; Vaz, Marco Aurelio] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Sul, Escola Educ Fis Fisioterapia & Danca, Lab Pesquisa Exercicio, Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil; [Bini, Rodrigo Rico] La Trobe Univ, La Trobe Rural Hlth Sch, Bendigo, Australia; [Geremia, Jeam Marcel] Univ Fed Santa Maria, Lab Biomecan LABIOMEC, Ave Roraima 1000,Predio 51, BR-97105900 Santa Maria, RS, Brazil								25							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000452940100012	63	Article; Article		
J	Cahalan, Roisin; Kearney, Philip; Bhriain, Orfhlaith Ni; Redding, Emma; Quin, Edel; McLaughlin, Lisa C.; O'Sullivan, Kieran								Dance exposure, wellbeing and injury in collegiate Irish and contemporary dancers: A prospective study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				34				77	83		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.09.006			NOV 2018	2018	Objectives: Dance exposure and determinants of wellness in Irish dance (ID) and contemporary dance (CD) are under-investigated in pre-professional, collegiate cohorts. This study prospectively investigated these variables in ID and CD participants for one year. Design: Prospective study. Setting: University-level institutes of dance, United Kingdom (UK) and Ireland. Participants: Fifty (ID = 21, CD = 29) full time students of dance at Trinity Laban Conservatoire of Music and Dance, (UK) and the University of Limerick, Ireland. Main Outcome Measures: Weekly hours of dance, general health, sleep quality, injury defined as "any pain or injury that impacted upon their ability to dance". Results: Dance exposure varied considerably for both genres across the year. CD participants danced for more hours weekly (p <0.001). Overall injury incidence (time-loss and non-time-loss) was 10.6 and 8.4 injuries per 1000 h dancing for ID and CD groups respectively. 70.4% of injuries were non-time-loss. Better sleep (p = 0.007) and general health (p < 0.001) scores were negatively correlated with days lost/impacted by injury. CD participants reported a significantly higher dance exposure in the week prior to a time-loss injury than during the previous four weeks (p = 0.044). Conclusions: Dance exposure is erratic in these cohorts with dancers frequently performing when injured. Poor sleep, general health, and increased dance exposure may be associated with injury. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Cahalan, Roisin; O'Sullivan, Kieran] Univ Limerick, Sch Allied Hlth, Hlth Sci Bldg, Limerick, Ireland; [Kearney, Philip] Univ Limerick, Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Limerick, Ireland; [Bhriain, Orfhlaith Ni; McLaughlin, Lisa C.] Univ Limerick, Irish World Acad Mus & Dance, Limerick, Ireland; [Redding, Emma; Quin, Edel] Fac Dance, Trinity Laban Conservatoire Mus & Dance, Laban Bldg, London SE8 3DZ, England; [O'Sullivan, Kieran] Aspetar Orthopaed & Sports Med Hosp, Doha, Qatar; [Cahalan, Roisin] Univ Limerick, Sch Allied Hlth, Hlth Sci Bldg, Limerick, Ireland								23							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000452940100011	49	Article; Article		
J	Derakhshani, Alireza; Letafatkar, Arnir; Abbasi, Ali								Comparison of the effects of sensorimotor training programs on pain, electromyography and kinematics in patients with scapular downward rotation syndrome								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				34				66	75		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.08.011			NOV 2018	2018	Objectives: Comparison of the effects of six weeks sensorimotor and sensorimotor with passive interventions programs on pain, electromyography (EMG) and kinematics in patients with scapular downward rotation syndrome (SDRS). Design: Randomized Controlled Trial. Setting: Institutional practice. Participants: 140 active subjects with unilateral SDRS were randomized to three groups. Group one received sensorimotor (n = 46), group two received sensorimotor with passive interventions (n =48), and group three received active self-exercise as a control group (n = 46). Pain, EMG of the levator scapula (LS), upper trapezius (UT), lower trapezius (LT), and serratus anterior (SA), as well as kinematics were measured at the baseline and after the interventions. Main outcome measures: Primary outcome: Pain - Secondary outcomes: EMG and kinematics. Results: There were significant between-group differences between intervention groups one and two in pain, LS and SA onset activation favoring group two and LS muscle activity favoring group one. There were significant within-group changes in almost all dependent variables except LT muscle onset activation in both groups one and two. Conclusions: The addition of passive interventions on the scapula and neck may be superior to conservative training alone on the scapula and neck for improving neck pain, EMG and kinematics in participants with SDRS. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Derakhshani, Alireza; Letafatkar, Arnir; Abbasi, Ali] Kharazmi Univ, Fac Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Mirdamad Blvd, Tehran, Iran; [Derakhshani, Alireza] Kharazmi Univ, Fac Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Mirdamad Blvd, Tehran, Iran								3							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000452940100010	48	Article; Article		
J	Greenberg, Elliot M.; Turner, Christian; Huse, Casey; Ganley, Theodore J.; McClure, Philip; Lawrence, J. Todd								Changes in humeral retrotorsion and the development of little league shoulder: A case study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				34				49	54		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.08.005			NOV 2018	2018	Objective: To present the case of a 15 year-old baseball player with Little League Shoulder (LLS) and describe how developmental changes in the angle of humeral retrotorsion (HRT) may contribute to the underlying pathology of this condition. Design: Case report. Setting: Two years earlier, the patient had participated in a healthy player screening program at which time measurements of height, weight, shoulder motion, and HRT were obtained. These same measures were obtained during the initial evaluation after injury. Between measurements, the patient grew more than 12 cm in height and demonstrated a large shift in proximal humeral torsional alignment with a change of 13 degrees and 19 degrees of HRT in the dominant and non-dominant sides respectively. Participant: 15 year-old male (1.88 m, 79.8 kg), right hand dominant baseball pitcher and 3rd baseman diagnosed with right LLS. Conclusion: The pathoanatomical factors contributing to LLS are not well understood. The degree of HRT is a developmental characteristic that changes over the course of physiological maturation. The large changes in HRT seen in this case, may implicate rapid changes in HRT angle create a window of increased susceptibility to physeal damage, and contribute to the development of LLS. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Greenberg, Elliot M.; Huse, Casey; Ganley, Theodore J.; Lawrence, J. Todd] Childrens Hosp Philadelphia, Sports Med & Performance Ctr, Philadelphia, PA 19104 USA; [Greenberg, Elliot M.; McClure, Philip] Arcadia Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Glenside, PA USA; [Turner, Christian; Ganley, Theodore J.; Lawrence, J. Todd] Childrens Hosp Philadelphia, Div Orthopaed Surg, Philadelphia, PA 19104 USA; [Turner, Christian; Ganley, Theodore J.; Lawrence, J. Todd] Univ Penn, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Philadelphia, PA 19104 USA; [Greenberg, Elliot M.] Childrens Hosp Philadelphia, Sports Med & Performance Ctr, Pediat & Adolescent Specialty Care Ctr Bucks Cty, 500 W Butler Ave, Chalfont, PA 18914 USA								3							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000452940100008	39	Article; Article		
J	Navarro-Ledesma, S.; Fernandez-Sanchez, M.; Luque-Suarez, A.								Does the pectoralis minor length influence acromiohumeral distance, shoulder pain-function, and range of movement?								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				34				43	48		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.08.009			NOV 2018	2018	Objective: To determine the association between pectoralis minor length (PML) and the acromiohumeral distance (AHD) in the symptomatic (S) and the asymptomatic (A) shoulder of subjects with chronic shoulder pain, and in shoulder free of pain controls (C). Furthermore, to analyze the relationship between PML and shoulder pain-function and range of movement (ROM) free of pain. Design: A cross sectional study. Setting: Primary care centres. Participants: A sample of fifty-four participants with chronic shoulder pain in their dominant arm was recruited, as well as fifty-four participants with shoulder free of pain. Main outcome measures: PML test and AHD measured by ultrasound. Results: There was a non statistical significant correlation between PML and AHD for all the groups at both 0 degrees (S = 0.03, p = 0.29; A = 0.06, p = 0.66; C = -0.17, p = 0.29) and 60 degrees (S = -0.10, p = 0.84; A = -0.18, p = 0.19; C = -0.03, p = 0.84) of shoulder elevation. Likewise, there was a non statistical significant correlation between PML and shoulder pain-function (0.09, p = 0.52), and ROM (-0.13, p = 0.35). Conclusions: PML is poorly associated with AHD, as well as with shoulder pain and mobility, in people with chronic shoulder pain. Other biomechanics alterations, as well as the presence of central peripheral sensitization should be considered. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Navarro-Ledesma, S.] Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias Salud, Dept Physiotherapy, Ave Ilustrac 60, Granada 18016, Spain; [Navarro-Ledesma, S.; Luque-Suarez, A.] Univ Malaga, Fac Ciencias Salud, Dept Physiotherapy, Arquitecto Francisco Penalosa 3, E-29071 Malaga, Spain; [Fernandez-Sanchez, M.] Univ Almeria, Fac Ciencias Salud, Dept Nursing Physiotherapy & Med, Ctra Sacramento S-N, Almeria 04120, Spain; [Fernandez-Sanchez, M.] Ctra Sacramento S-N, Almeria 04120, Spain								8							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000452940100007	39	Article; Article		
J	Sinclair, Jonathan; Janssen, Jessie; Richards, Jim David; Butters, Bobbie; Taylor, Paul John; Hobbs, Sarah Jane								Effects of a 4-week intervention using semi-custom insoles on perceived pain and patellofemoral loading in targeted subgroups of recreational runners with patellofemoral pain								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				34				21	27		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.08.006			NOV 2018	2018	Objective: Explore the effects of a 4-week intervention using semi-custom insoles in recreational runners with patellofemoral pain. Design: Mixed methods. Participants: Seventeen (10 males and 7 females) recreational runners. Setting: Laboratory. Outcome measurements: Participants were separated into specific subgroups, then provided with a pair of semi-custom insoles, for a period of 4-weeks. Lower extremity kinetics/kinematics during running at 4.0 m/s were obtained. In addition, knee pain was examined using the Knee injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score-Patellofemoral scale (KOOS-PF). Data were collected before and after wearing the insoles for 4-weeks. Results: Significant improvements were shown for KOOS-PF in both subgroups (strong: (pre) = 63.84 & (post) = 71.49 and weak and tight: (pre) = 53.03 & (post) = 72.73), although only improvements in the weak and tight group exceeded the minimum clinically important difference (MCID). In addition, significant reductions in peak patellofemoral stress were shown in both subgroups (strong: (pre) = 6.82 & (post) = 6.39KPa/BW and weak and tight: (pre) = 7.66 & (post) = 6.28KPa/BW), although only reductions in the weak and tight group exceeded the MCID. Conclusions: Semi-custom insoles may be a mechanism to reduce patellofemoral pain symptoms in recreational runners from the weak and tight subgroup. It is proposed that this improvement was mediated through reductions in patellofemoral loading in this subgroup. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Sinclair, Jonathan; Butters, Bobbie; Hobbs, Sarah Jane] Univ Cent Lancashire, Fac Hlth & Wellbeing, Ctr Appl Sport & Exercise Sci, Preston PR1 2HE, Lancs, England; [Janssen, Jessie; Richards, Jim David] Univ Cent Lancashire, Fac Hlth & Wellbeing, Allied Hlth Res Unit, Preston, Lancs, England; [Taylor, Paul John] Univ Cent Lancashire, Fac Sci & Technol, Sch Psychol, Preston, Lancs, England; [Sinclair, Jonathan] Univ Cent Lancashire, Fac Hlth & Wellbeing, Ctr Appl Sport & Exercise Sci, Preston PR1 2HE, Lancs, England								14							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000452940100004	47	Article; Article		
J	Vidal, Anthony D.; Nakajima, Mimi; Wu, Will F. W.; Becker, James								Movement screens: Are we measuring movement dysfunction or movement skill?								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	5			771	778		10.1177/1747954118760225			OCT 2018	2018	Movement screens are commonly used for assessing athletic readiness or injury potential. However, these screens fail to distinguish between movement dysfunction and movement skill. The purpose of this study was to compare performance on a common movement screen test, the overhead squat, when using no instructions (Baseline), instruction from a commercial movement screen, and instructions which include verbal cues, demonstration, and practice (Instructions, Demonstration, and Practice [IDP]). Fourteen individuals performed the overhead squat under the three different conditions while their movements were recorded using a 12-camera motion capture system. Specific scoring criteria for the overhead squat such as joint angles, depth of squat, torso and shank orientation, and weight distribution were compared between instructional conditions. Compared to the Baseline and commercial movement screen conditions, IDP resulted in greater vertical center of mass displacement, better alignment of the torso and shank segments, and greater peak flexion at the hip and knee. These results show that incorporating verbal cues, providing demonstration, and allowing for practice during movement screening significantly improve performance in the overhead squat assessment. Based on these results, the authors recommend that coaches or clinicians using movement screens to identify movement dysfunction should provide demonstrations of the movement, allow the participant to practice, provide verbal instructions about the movement prior to assessment, and provide corrective feedback during practice. Excluding these elements limits the ability to distinguish between true dysfunctional movement patterns and a simple lack of movement skill.		[Vidal, Anthony D.; Nakajima, Mimi; Wu, Will F. W.; Becker, James] Calif State Univ Long Beach, Dept Kinesiol, Ctr Sport Training & Res, Long Beach, CA 90840 USA; [Becker, James] Montana State Univ, Dept Hlth & Human Dev, 121 Hoseaus Fitness Ctr, Bozeman, MT 59717 USA; [Becker, James] Montana State Univ, Dept Hlth & Human Dev, 121 Hoseaus Fitness Ctr, Bozeman, MT 59717 USA								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000446857400019	33	Article; Article		
J	Middleton, Kane J.; Wells, Denny J. M.; Foster, Daryl H.; Alderson, Jacqueline A.								Proximal cueing to reduce elbow extension levels in suspect spin bowlers: A case study								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	5			643	648		10.1177/1747954118792852			OCT 2018	2018	Cricket bowlers must be able to deliver the ball with less than 15 degrees of elbow extension or face suspension. The aim of this case study was to report the findings of a technique remediation programme on the elbow joint kinematics of an international cricket bowler. The bowler underwent a three-dimensional bowling analysis to measure his elbow joint kinematics before and after a technique remediation programme. The bowler was required to bowl six deliveries of each of his off-break, quicker and doosra variations. The remediation programme focussed on modifying the bowler's run-up, shoulder alignment and ball/hand position at back foot impact. Elbow joint waveform data were analysed using statistical parametric mapping tests and coefficient of multiple determination. Elbow flexion-extension angles at discrete events were compared pre- and post-remediation using paired-sample t-tests. Results showed that the remediation programme was effective in reducing the amount of elbow flexion, particularly in the first 60% of the delivery cycle. Elbow extension range was significantly lower post-remediation for the off-break and quicker deliveries. It was concluded that basic short-term technique remediation can be effective in reducing elbow extension range.		[Middleton, Kane J.] La Trobe Univ, Sch Allied Hlth, 1 Kingsbury Dr, Bundoora, Vic 3086, Australia; [Middleton, Kane J.] La Trobe Univ, La Trobe Sport & Exercise Med Res Ctr, Bundoora, Vic, Australia; [Wells, Denny J. M.] Auckland Univ Technol, Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand, Auckland, New Zealand; [Foster, Daryl H.; Alderson, Jacqueline A.] Univ Western Australia, Sch Human Sci, Perth, WA, Australia; [Middleton, Kane J.] La Trobe Univ, Sch Allied Hlth, 1 Kingsbury Dr, Bundoora, Vic 3086, Australia								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000446857400004	28	Article; Article		
J	Owen, Adam L.; Morgans, Ryland; Kavanagh, Ronan; Djaoui, Leo								Salivary IgA and pre-training wellness status across an international soccer qualifying and finals campaign (Euro 2016)								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	5			794	803		10.1177/1747954118779656			OCT 2018	2018	The aim of this investigation was to examine the salivary IgA (salivary immunoglobulin-A), RPE and pre-training wellness status across an international qualification and finals campaign. Data were collected for 37 elite male international soccer players (mean +/- standard deviation, age: 24.9 +/- 3.3 years; height: 182.5 +/- 6cm; mass: 73.1 +/- 6.2kg; positions: Goalkeeper, Center Defender, Wide Defender, Center Midfield, Wide Forward, and Center Forward) across two consecutive seasons. Training RPE, wellness questionnaire, and saliva samples were taken throughout the Euro 2016 qualifying and finals campaign. Results revealed how Readiness and Total Wellness (r=-0.28, p<0.05) correlated to salivary immunoglobulin-A, in the day preceding games (MD-1). No correlation between wellness and salivary immunoglobulin-A was observed in MD-4; however, Energy correlated to salivary immunoglobulin-A between MD-3 and MD (from r=-0.18 to -0.22, p<0.05), with significance observed between RPE and Total Wellness r=-0.22 (Total Wellness), r=-0.21 (Energy), r=-0.17 (Readiness), and r=-0.24 (Lower Body Soreness) (p<0.05). It can be concluded from the data that all wellness markers except Sleep correlated to salivary immunoglobulin-A. Furthermore, it was revealed that Energy appeared to be the greatest wellness assessment marker related to salivary immunoglobulin-A. As a result of this specific investigation, it can be confirmed that the use of a pre-training subjective Wellness questionnaires may be a useful tool to monitor individual mucosal immunity response to training.		[Owen, Adam L.; Morgans, Ryland] FAW, Sport Sci Res Grp, Cardiff, S Glam, Wales; [Owen, Adam L.; Djaoui, Leo] Univ Claude Bernard Lyon 1, Univ Lyon, Interuniv Lab Human Movement Biol, Lyon, France; [Kavanagh, Ronan] Univ Cent Lancashire UCLAN, Sch Sport & Wellbeing, Preston, Lancs, England; [Owen, Adam L.] Univ Claude Bernard Lyon 1, Univ Lyon, F-1918 Lyon, France								8							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000446857400022	33	Article; Article		
J	Leonardi, Thiago J.; Paes, Roberto R.; Breder, Larissa; Foster, Carl; Goncalves, Carlos E.; Carvalho, Humberto M.								Biological maturation, training experience, body size and functional capacity of adolescent female basketball players: A Bayesian analysis								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	5			713	722		10.1177/1747954118772489			OCT 2018	2018	In the present study we examined the age- and maturity-associated variation on body size and functional capacities in 47 adolescent female basketball players. Also, we examined the relative contribution of growth and maturity status to functional capacity between player variation. Data included chronological age, age at menarche, years of training experience; body dimensions; countermovement jump, Line drill test and Yo-Yo intermittent recovery test - level 1. Bayesian multilevel modelling was used to estimate the independent effects of age, maturity status, years of training experience and body size on functional capacity indicators. Players were, on average, advanced in maturity status, with a mean age at menarche of 11.20 years (1.32 years). Age-associated variation in age at menarche, body size and functional performance was present. No substantial maturity-associated variation was observed for stature and functional capacities, but late maturing players appeared to be less experienced in the sport. Variance partition coefficients ranged between 38% and 45% for the three indicators of functional capacities. Body mass and adiposity were the predictors identified for all indicators of performance. Maturity status and years of experience were predictors of performance in the countermovement jump while age and years of experience were predictors of performance for the Line drill. Stature was only identified as a predictor of the Yo-Yo intermittent recovery - level 1. Coaches should interpret functional performance in adolescent female basketball players considering their different ages (chronological, biological and accumulated training) and their influence on body dimensions.		[Leonardi, Thiago J.; Paes, Roberto R.; Breder, Larissa; Carvalho, Humberto M.] Univ Estadual Campinas, Fac Phys Educ, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Leonardi, Thiago J.] Adventist Univ Ctr Sao Paulo, Campus Hortolandia, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Foster, Carl] Univ Wisconsin, Dept Exercise & Sport Sci, La Crosse, WI USA; [Goncalves, Carlos E.] Univ Coimbra, Fac Sports Sci & Phys Educ, Coimbra, Portugal; [Carvalho, Humberto M.] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Dept Phys Educ, Sports Ctr, Florianopolis, SC, Brazil; [Carvalho, Humberto M.] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Dept Educ Fis, Ctr Desportos, Campus Reitor Joao David Ferreira Lima, BR-88040900 Florianopolis, SC, Brazil								29							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000446857400012	62	Article; Article		
J	Soomro, Najeebullah; Hackett, Daniel; Freeston, Jonathan; Blanch, Peter; Kountouris, Alex; Dipnall, Joanna; Lyle, David; Sanders, Ross								How do Australian coaches train fast bowlers? A survey on physical conditioning and workload management practices for training fast bowlers								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	5			761	770		10.1177/1747954118790128			OCT 2018	2018	Fast bowlers have the highest injury rates in cricket; therefore, reducing these injuries is a priority for coaches and the support staff. Improving physical conditioning and monitoring bowling workload are primary preventative strategies to reduce overuse injuries. The objective of this study was to investigate practices of cricket coaches in Australia on (1) strength and conditioning and (2) bowling workload management of junior and non-elite fast bowlers. A web-based survey was sent to 548 male Level Two cricket coaches registered with Cricket New South Wales, Australia. One hundred and seventy (31%) coaches responded to the survey. A majority (70%) of the coaches were working with cricketers under the age of 19 years. Only 39 (23%) engaged fast bowlers in resistance training exercises. Coaches under the age of 40 years were more likely to prescribe resistance training ((2)=5.77, df=1, p=0.016) than coaches over the age of 40. Lower back, abdominal and gluteal muscles were the most commonly targeted muscle groups. Sit-ups, core work and squats were the most common exercises prescribed. Most (92%) coaches were aware of current national fast bowling workload recommendations. However, only 18 (13%) coaches prescribed the currently recommended workloads. The results indicate that coaches training junior and sub-elite cricketers need more awareness on of the importance of engaging fast bowlers in resistance training and monitoring bowling workloads. Understanding current training practices of coaches can assist in the development of injury prevention programmes for junior fast bowlers and educational programmes for coaches.		[Soomro, Najeebullah; Lyle, David] Univ Sydney, Dept Rural Hlth, Fac Med, Broken Hill Univ, Broken Hill, NSW, Australia; [Soomro, Najeebullah; Hackett, Daniel; Freeston, Jonathan; Sanders, Ross] Univ Sydney, Discipline Exercise & Sport Sci, Fac Hlth Sci, Lidcombe, NSW, Australia; [Soomro, Najeebullah] Univ Adelaide, Adelaide Rural Clin Sch, Adelaide, SA, Australia; [Blanch, Peter] Brisbane Lions Football Club, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [Kountouris, Alex] Cricket Australia, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Dipnall, Joanna] Monash Univ, Sch Med, Clayton, Vic, Australia; [Dipnall, Joanna] Deakin Univ, Sch Med, Geelong, Vic, Australia; [Soomro, Najeebullah] Univ Sydney, Broken Hill, NSW 2880, Australia								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000446857400018	47	Article; Article		
J	Drake, David; Breslin, Gavin								Developmental activities and the acquisition of perceptual-cognitive expertise in international field hockey players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	5			636	642		10.1177/1747954117711093			OCT 2018	2018	The purpose of this study was to contrast the practice history profiles of international field hockey players and developmental activities leading to the attainment of high levels of perceptual-cognitive performance. Twenty-three international hockey players were assigned to a high performing or low performing group based on coach rankings of their perceptual and decision-making skill. Participants completed a practice history questionnaire assessing the number of hours in total practice, match play, coach-led practice, individual practice and peer-led play. Results showed that high performing players accumulated greater hours in total practice, match play, and coach-led practice compared to their low performing counterparts. Match play and coach-led practice are influential factors in the development of perceptual-cognitive performance. Diversification of sporting activities during participant's development years did not have a negative consequence on the acquisition of hockey-specific perceptual-cognitive skills.		[Drake, David; Breslin, Gavin] Univ Ulster, Sch Sport, Jordanstown BT37 0QB, North Ireland; [Breslin, Gavin] Univ Ulster, Sport & Exercise Sci Res Inst, Jordanstown, North Ireland; [Drake, David] Univ Ulster, Sch Sport, Jordanstown BT37 0QB, North Ireland								8							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000446857400003	24	Article; Article		
J	Bolter, Nicole D.; Lucas, Shelley M.								Female and male youth sport coaches' perceptions of teaching sportspersonship to female and male athletes								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	5			619	628		10.1177/1747954118786061			OCT 2018	2018	According to the positive youth development framework, sportspersonship and character development is an expected outcome from participation in youth sport. Previous studies have shown mixed results in terms of how gender affects young athletes' sportspersonship, suggesting it is important to explore how boys and girls are taught about sportspersonship by their coaches. In this study, we interviewed six female and six male youth sport coaches who had coached both girls' and boys' teams at recreational and competitive levels to examine coaches' expectations regarding sportspersonship, with a specific focus on those beliefs associated with gender. Our analysis indicated that gender does matter, as represented in the two emergent higher-order themes-(a) Observations of Athletes' Sportspersonship Behaviors and (b) Teaching Sportspersonship to Girls and Boys-representative of two and four lower-order themes, respectively. Results showed that gender mattered in terms of coaches' reported strategies for teaching about sportspersonship, suggesting that youth sport participation builds gendered character.		[Bolter, Nicole D.] San Francisco State Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Coll Hlth & Social Sci, San Francisco, CA 94132 USA; [Lucas, Shelley M.] Boise State Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Boise, ID 83725 USA; [Bolter, Nicole D.] San Francisco State Univ, Coll Hlth & Social Sci, 1600 Holloway Ave, San Francisco, CA 94132 USA								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000446857400001	28	Article; Article		
J	Garcia-Ramos, Amador; Perez-Castilla, Alejandro; Martin, Fernando								Reliability and concurrent validity of the Velowin optoelectronic system to measure movement velocity during the free-weight back squat								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	5			737	742		10.1177/1747954118791525			OCT 2018	2018	The objective of this study was to explore the reliability and concurrent validity of the Velowin optoelectronic system to measure movement velocity during the free-weight back squat exercise. Thirty-one men (age=27.5 +/- 3.2 years; body height=1.76 +/- 0.15m; body mass: 78.3 +/- 7.6kg) were evaluated in a single session against five different loads (20, 40, 50, 60 and 70kg) and three velocity variables (mean velocity, mean propulsive velocity and maximum velocity) were recorded simultaneously by a linear velocity transducer (T-Force; gold-standard) and a camera-based optoelectronic system (Velowin). The main findings revealed that (1) the three velocity variables were determined with a high and comparable reliability by both the T-Force and Velowin systems (median coefficient of variation of the five loads: T-Force: mean velocity=4.25%, mean propulsive velocity=4.49% and maximum velocity=3.45%; Velowin: mean velocity=4.29%, mean propulsive velocity=4.60% and maximum velocity=4.44%), (2) the maximum velocity was the most reliable variable when obtained by the T-force (p<0.05), but no significant differences in the reliability of the variables were observed for the Velowin (p>0.05) and (3) high correlations were observed for the values of mean velocity (r=0.976), mean propulsive velocity (r=0.965) and maximum velocity (r=0.977) between the T-Force and Velowin systems. Collectively, these results support the Velowin as a reliable and valid system for the measurement of movement velocity during the free-weight back squat exercise.		[Garcia-Ramos, Amador; Perez-Castilla, Alejandro] Univ Granada, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Granada, Spain; [Garcia-Ramos, Amador] Catholic Univ Most Holy Concepcion, Dept Sports Sci & Phys Conditioning, Fac Educ, Concepcion, Chile; [Martin, Fernando] Univ Valencia, Dept Phys Educ & Sports, Res Grp Sport & Hlth, Gasco Oliag 3, Valencia 46010, Spain; [Martin, Fernando] Univ Valencia, Dept Phys Educ & Sports, Res Grp Sport & Hlth, Gasco Oliag 3, Valencia 46010, Spain								35							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000446857400015	19	Article; Article		
J	Decimoni, Luciana S.; Curty, Victor M.; Almeida, Livia; Koch, Alexander J.; Willardson, Jeffrey M.; Machado, Marco								Carbohydrate mouth rinsing improves resistance training session performance								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	5			804	809		10.1177/1747954118755640			OCT 2018	2018	We investigated the effect of carbohydrate mouth rinsing on resistance exercise performance. Fifteen recreationally trained women (age 26 +/- 4y; height 1.61.9 +/- 5.1m; weight 59.5 +/- 8.2kg) completed two resistance exercise bouts consisting of three sets of five exercises (half-squat, leg press, bench press, military press, and seated row) to volitional fatigue with a 10 repetition-maximum load. Immediately prior to and during the middle of each exercise bout, subjects mouth rinsed for 10s with 100mL of either a 6% maltodextrin solution (CHO) or an artificially flavored solution (PLA) in a randomized, double-blind, counterbalanced fashion. Heart rate and perceived exertion were compared between conditions using a 2 (conditions)x15 (time points) repeated measures ANOVA. Significant main effects were further analyzed using pairwise comparisons with Bonferroni post hoc tests. Total volume (exercises * sets * repetitions * load) between sessions was compared with a Student's t-test. Statistical significance was set at p0.05 level of confidence. The CHO resulted in more repetitions performed during half-squat, bench press, military press, and seated row, for a significantly greater (approximate to 12%) total volume load lifted versus PLA (p=0.039, ES: 0.49). Rating of perceived exertion was also significantly lower in the CHO versus PLA (p=0.020, ES: 0.28). These data indicate that CHO mouth rinsing can enhance high-volume resistance exercise performance and lower ratings of perceived exertion.		[Decimoni, Luciana S.; Almeida, Livia; Machado, Marco] FUNITA, Human Movement Lab Studies, Itaperuna, RJ, Brazil; [Koch, Alexander J.] Lenoir Rhyne Univ, Exercise Physiol Lab, Hickory, NC USA; [Willardson, Jeffrey M.] Eastern Illinois Univ, Kinesiol & Sports Studies Dept, Charleston, IL 61920 USA; [Machado, Marco] Lab Physiol & Biokinet, UNIG Campus 5, Itaperuna, RJ, Brazil; [Curty, Victor M.] Fed Univ Espirito Santo UFES, Dept Physiol Sci, Lab Mol & Cellular Physiol, Vitoria, ES, Brazil; [Curty, Victor M.] Escola Super Sao Francisco de Assis ESFA, Dept Phys Educ, Santa Teresa, ES, Brazil; [Curty, Victor M.] Univ Fed Espirito Santo, Lab Mol & Cellular Physiol, Hlth Sci Ctr, Av Marechal Campos 148, BR-29043900 Maruipe, ES, Brazil								22							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000446857400023	28	Article; Article		
J	Hoyes, Kevin; Collins, Dave								Fit to race: Identifying the balance, type and sources of knowledge in fitness for Motorsport								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	5			751	760		10.1177/1747954118758277			OCT 2018	2018	In Motorsport, due perhaps to a lack of empirical evidence, it is not always clear what fitness training is required and what roles specific fitness components play, particularly outside the elite levels. Consequently, drivers and their trainers are often left to their own devices, placing reliance on anecdotal information. Accordingly, using a large sample of racing drivers, coaches and fitness trainers, the aim of this investigation was to identify the perceived importance and contribution of fitness components, the sources of information used to reach these conclusions and levels of confidence in the views reported. Survey data from 166 drivers (151 males, 15 females) showed that, in general, cardiovascular fitness, upper body strength, coordination and reactions were perceived as being the most important. Data on sources of information used supported the conjecture that training can often be based on word of mouth'. Despite a fairly high level of confidence in the views expressed, there is clearly a significant opportunity for practitioners working within Motorsport to provide clearer, proven information so that drivers can feel confident that they are training optimally.		[Hoyes, Kevin; Collins, Dave] iZone Driver Performance Ltd, Unit 2255,Silverstone Pk, Towcester NN12 8GX, Northants, England; [Collins, Dave] Univ Cent Lancashire, Inst Coaching & Performance, Preston, Lancs, England; [Collins, Dave] Grey Matters Performance Ltd, Stratford Upon Avon, England; [Hoyes, Kevin] iZone Driver Performance Ltd, Unit 2255,Silverstone Pk, Towcester NN12 8GX, Northants, England								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000446857400017	29	Article; Article		
J	da Silva, Eduardo Jorge; Sanchez-Oliva, David; Mallett, Clifford J.; Palmeira, Antonio								Preliminary development of the Portuguese Coach Motivation Questionnaire								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	5			649	657		10.1177/1747954118756047			OCT 2018	2018	Purpose: Coaches' motivation is central to their coaching, however, few studies have examined coaches' motivation in different cultures. The aim of this study was to provide initial validation of the Portuguese version of the Coach Motivation Questionnaire. Method: The participants were 369 coaches from various sports (males = 288) aged between 18 and 67 years old (M = 32.4, SD = 11.04). Confirmatory factor analysis, discriminant and nomological validity, and invariance across gender, team/individual sports and coaching experience were analysed. Results: The hypothesised six-factor structure obtained acceptable values with the following robust adjustment indices: RTLI = .902; RCFI = .921; RGFI = .904 and RRMSEA (90% CI) = .066 (.058-.074). The amended model also showed high factor weights (lambda >= .500) and appropriate individual reliabilities (lambda(2) >= .25). The instrument's internal consistency was assessed by Cronbach's alpha (.646-.898) and composite reliability (.662-.900). Regarding discriminant validity, correlations among the factors were in general according to the hypothesised patterns, where closer factors were positively related and not close factors were less strongly related. Regarding nomological validity, results supported for the hypothesised relationships through the associations with measures of motivation at work, need satisfaction and need frustration. Lastly, the measurement model met configural and metric invariance across gender and coaching experience and also met configural invariance across team/individual sports. Conclusions: The evidence from this study suggests that the Portuguese Coach Motivation Questionnaire is a promising and parsimonious questionnaire to assess coaches' motivation, albeit its development remains a work in progress.		[da Silva, Eduardo Jorge; Palmeira, Antonio] Univ Lusofona Humanidades & Tecnol, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Campo Grande 376, P-1749024 Lisbon, Portugal; [Sanchez-Oliva, David] Univ Extremadura, Fac Sport Sci, Badajoz, Spain; [Sanchez-Oliva, David] Univ Lisbon, Fac Human Kinet, Lisbon, Portugal; [Mallett, Clifford J.] Univ Queensland, Sch Human Movement & Nutr Sci, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [da Silva, Eduardo Jorge] Univ Lusofona Humanidades & Tecnol, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Campo Grande 376, P-1749024 Lisbon, Portugal								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000446857400005	35	Article; Article		
J	Garrett, Joel M.; McKeown, Ian; Burgess, Darren J.; Woods, Carl T.; Eston, Roger G.								A preliminary investigation into the discriminant and ecological validity of the athletic ability assessment in elite Australian rules football								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	5			679	686		10.1177/1747954117736168			OCT 2018	2018	Objectives: To establish the discriminant validity of the athletic ability assessment in elite Australian rules football. Secondarily, to examine the association between athletic ability assessment and maximum running velocity extracted from elite Australian rules football game-play. Methods: To establish the discriminant validity of the athletic ability assessment, 43 Australian Football League players from one club were split into two groups based upon playing status; 'starters' (n = 17; selected in 50% of the first 10 games of the Australian Football League season), 'non-starters' (n = 26; not selected in 50% of the first 10 games of the Australian Football League season). Each group performed a modified version of the athletic ability assessment consisting of five foundational athletic movements. An independent-sampled t-test modelled the effect of player group (starters; non-starters) on the total score and for each individual exercise. Pearson product moment correlation was also conducted to establish the association between maximum running velocity and athletic ability assessment. Results: The starters attained a significantly greater total mean score on the athletic ability assessment (d = 1.04, p < 0.05), overhead squat (d = 0.96, p < 0.05), double lunge left (d = 0.64, p < 0.05), single leg Romanian deadlift left (d = 1.19, p < 0.05) and right single leg Romanian dead lift (d = 0.79, p < 0.05) relative to the non-starters. Also noted were moderate, positive correlations between maximum running velocity and athletic ability assessment (r = 0.31-0.46; p < 0.05). Conclusions: The results support the use of the athletic ability assessment to measure movement competency in elite Australian rules football. Accordingly, physical development coaches may consider its integration in high-performance training programs.		[Garrett, Joel M.; Burgess, Darren J.; Eston, Roger G.] Univ South Australia, Alliance Res Exercise Nutr & Act, Sansom Inst Hlth Res, 1 Frome St, Adelaide, SA 5000, Australia; [Garrett, Joel M.; McKeown, Ian; Burgess, Darren J.] Port Adelaide Football Club, Adelaide, SA, Australia; [Woods, Carl T.] James Cook Univ, Discipline Sport & Exercise Sci, Townsville, Qld, Australia; [Garrett, Joel M.] Univ South Australia, Alliance Res Exercise Nutr & Act, Sansom Inst Hlth Res, 1 Frome St, Adelaide, SA 5000, Australia								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000446857400008	31	Article; Article		
J	Kolber, Morey J.; Purita, Joseph; Paulus, Christian; Carreno, Jeremy A.; Hanney, William J.								Platelet Rich Plasma: Basic Science and Biological Effects								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				40	5			77	94		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000402			OCT 2018	2018	Platelet-rich plasma (PRP) is an autologous biological intervention that seeks to augment the body's self-healing capacity. As a promising nonsurgical treatment option for musculoskeletal injuries, PRP has enthused significant interest among patients and sports medicine professionals. Owing to a growing range of clinical indications and excellent safety profile, sports medicine professionals are likely to encounter individuals who received or are considering PRP. This article provides an overview of PRP, biological mechanisms, and evidence underpinning the utilization of PRP injections for musculoskeletal disorders. A companion article in this issue discusses considerations for sports medicine professionals managing individuals following PRP procedures.		[Kolber, Morey J.] Nova Southeastern Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Ft Lauderdale, FL 33314 USA; [Purita, Joseph; Carreno, Jeremy A.] Inst Regenerat Med, Boca Raton, FL USA; [Paulus, Christian] Amer Acad Regenerat Med, Lakewood, CO USA; [Hanney, William J.] Univ Cent Florida, Dept Hlth Profess, Orlando, FL 32816 USA; [Kolber, Morey J.] Nova Southeastern Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Ft Lauderdale, FL 33314 USA								10							Sport Sciences	WOS:000446264700007	110	Article; Article		
J	Kolber, Morey J.; Purita, Joseph; Paulus, Christian; Carreno, Jeremy A.; Hanney, William J.								Platelet Rich Plasma: Postprocedural Considerations for the Sports Medicine Professional								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				40	5			95	107		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000403			OCT 2018	2018	Owing to a growing interest in treatments that use the body's innate healing mechanisms, sports medicine professionals are likely to encounter individuals with musculoskeletal injuries who received platelet-rich plasma (PRP). This column presents strategies that foster recovery and harness the regenerative potential of PRP. Evidence underpinning the impact of loading biological tissues is presented to guide safe and efficacious exercise prescription. A companion article in this issue discusses the science and evidence surrounding PRP.		[Kolber, Morey J.] Nova Southeastern Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Ft Lauderdale, FL 33314 USA; [Purita, Joseph; Carreno, Jeremy A.] Inst Regenerat Med, Boca Raton, FL USA; [Paulus, Christian] Amer Acad Regenerat Med, Lakewood, CO USA; [Hanney, William J.] Univ Cent Florida, Dept Hlth Profess, Phys Therapy Program, Orlando, FL 32816 USA; [Kolber, Morey J.] Nova Southeastern Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Ft Lauderdale, FL 33314 USA								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:000446264700008	87	Article; Article		
J	Gallo, Paul M.; Mendola, Nicole M.								The Role of Exercise in the Management of Parkinson's Disease								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				40	5			120	125		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000416			OCT 2018	2018	Parkinson's disease (PD) results in motor and nonmotor symptoms that lead to decreased mobility and reduced quality of life. Exercise is an effective method for disease management and improved fitness in persons with PD. This column will focus on the pathophysiology, epidemiology, treatment, and exercise goals for persons with PD.		[Gallo, Paul M.; Mendola, Nicole M.] Norwalk Community Coll, Exercise Sci & Wellness Dept, Norwalk, CT 06854 USA; [Gallo, Paul M.] Norwalk Community Coll, Exercise Sci & Wellness Dept, Norwalk, CT 06854 USA								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:000446264700010	31	Article; Article		
J	Tee, Jason C.; Ashford, Michael; Piggott, David								A Tactical Periodization on Approach for Rugby Union								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				40	5			1	13		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000390			OCT 2018	2018	The concept of tactical periodization has been popularized by a number of successful, high-profile soccer coaches. More recently, reports have indicated that tactical periodization approaches are being used within elite rugby union. However, few reports currently exist, and resources for coaches interested in using a tactical periodization approach are limited. This article aims to demonstrate how tactical periodization can be applied in rugby union to help coordinate long-term planning, improve the specificity of training, and prepare players more effectively for competition.		[Tee, Jason C.; Ashford, Michael; Piggott, David] Leeds Beckett Univ, Inst Sport Phys Act & Leisure, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England; [Tee, Jason C.] Leeds Beckett Univ, Inst Sport Phys Act & Leisure, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England								35							Sport Sciences	WOS:000446264700001	45	Article; Article		
J	Pote, Lee; Christie, Candice J.								Injury Prevention Strategies in Cricket								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				40	5			34	43		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000409			OCT 2018	2018	The game of cricket has grown in popularity over the past years. Seasons have become longer, and thus, players may be more prone to injuries. Therefore, training programs need to ensure that injuries are prevented or minimized. This review sought to determine which injury prevention strategies are available. There is a paucity of literature that has examined injury prevention strategies for cricket. What is available has focused mostly on the main injuries that occur during cricket with limited information on prevention programs. Furthermore, most programs are not multifactorial in nature, which is an important consideration when training and designing conditioning programs.		[Pote, Lee; Christie, Candice J.] Rhodes Univ, Dept Human Kinet & Ergon, Grahamstown, South Africa; [Pote, Lee] Rhodes Univ, Dept Human Kinet & Ergon, Grahamstown, South Africa								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:000446264700004	43	Article; Article		
J	Balsalobre-Fernandez, Carlos; Garcia-Ramos, Amador; Jimenez-Reyes, Pedro								Load-velocity profiling in the military press exercise: Effects of gender and training								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	5			743	750		10.1177/1747954117738243			OCT 2018	2018	This study aimed (1) to analyze the accuracy of mean propulsive velocity to predict the percentage of the 1-repetition maximum in the seated military press exercise and (2) to test the effect of gender and of a resistance training program on the load-velocity profile. The load-velocity relationships of 26 men and 13 women were evaluated by means of an incremental loading test up to the individual 1-repetition maximum. Additionally, the load-velocity relationships of 24 of those 26 men were measured again after a six-week resistance training program. Individual load-velocity relationships had very high coefficients of determination and low standard errors of the estimate (R-2=0.987; standard error of the estimate=0.04m/s). Differences higher than 10% between the individual and the general load-velocity profiles as well as a high between-participants' variability for the mean propulsive velocity attained at each 1-repetition maximum (coefficient of variation=12.9-24.6%) were identified. The load-velocity profiles proved to be affected by both the gender (higher mean propulsive velocity at each %1-repetition maximum for men) and the resistance training program (lower mean propulsive velocity at each %1-repetition maximum after training). Taken together, these results speak in favor of creating individual profiles instead of using general equations when using the load-velocity relationship to estimate relative load.		[Balsalobre-Fernandez, Carlos] Autonomous Univ Madrid, Dept Phys Educ Sport & Human Movement, Madrid, Spain; [Garcia-Ramos, Amador] Catholic Univ Most Holy Conception, Fac Educ, Concepcion, Chile; [Jimenez-Reyes, Pedro] Catholic Univ Murcia, Dept Phys Act & Sports Sci, Murcia, Spain; [Balsalobre-Fernandez, Carlos] Autonomous Univ Madrid, Dept Phys Educ Sport & Human Movement, Madrid, Spain								57							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000446857400016	22	Article; Article		
J	Dionne, Jean-Francois; Lajoie, Claude; Gendron, Philippe; Freiberger, Eduardo; Trudeau, Francois								Physiological and Psychological Adaptations of Trained Cyclists to Spring Cycling Camps								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				64	1			137	146		10.1515/hukin-2017-0188			SEP 2018	2018	The purpose of our study was to assess physiological adaptations and measure mood outcomes following a cycling training camp in competitive athletes. Fourteen competitive athletes (8 males, 6 females) performed 2 incremental tests to exhaustion before and after a training camp. Volume and intensity (load) of the training regimen were recorded. Submaximal and maximal metabolic data were analysed, as well as economy variables (gross mechanical efficiency and cycling economy). Skeletal muscle adaptations were assessed using near infrared spectroscopy (NIRS). For both genders (n = 14), peak power output, peak power output-W/kg ratio and peak power output-B[La] were significantly increased (p < 0.05) after the cycling training camp (p < 0.05). Significant increases occurred for gross mechanical efficiency measured at the lactate threshold (+4.9%) and at the same precamp lactate threshold power output (+2.9%). At the lactate threshold and Post Camp Lactate Threshold Power, cycling economy increased by 5.2 and 2.9%, respectively (p < 0.05). These power measurements were significantly correlated with individual fluctuations in deoxyhaemoglobin in the vastus lateralis for male cyclists only. Profile of Mood State questionnaire results showed that subcategories "Tension-Anxiety", "Confusion", "Fatigue" and "Total Global Score" significantly decreased after the training camp. Cycling training camps were associated with positive adaptations (increased cycling economy, gross mechanical efficiency and power output) as well as some mental benefits. This indicates that despite some significant physiological adaptations participants probably did not overreach during their CTC.		[Dionne, Jean-Francois; Lajoie, Claude; Gendron, Philippe; Freiberger, Eduardo; Trudeau, Francois] Univ Quebec Trois Rivieres, Dept Human Kinet, 3351 Boul Forges,CP 500, Trois Rivieres, PQ G9A 5H7, Canada; [Trudeau, Francois] Univ Quebec Trois Rivieres, Dept Human Kinet, 3351 Boul Forges,CP 500, Trois Rivieres, PQ G9A 5H7, Canada								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:000447662500013	32	Article; Article		
J	Sun, Xiaole; Yang, Yang; Wang, Lin; Zhang, Xini; Fu, Weijie								Do Strike Patterns or Shoe Conditions Have a Predominant Influence on Foot Loading?								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				64	1			13	23		10.1515/hukin-2017-0205			SEP 2018	2018	This study aimed to explore the effects of strike patterns and shoe conditions on foot loading during running. Twelve male runners were required to run under shoe (SR) and barefoot conditions (BR) with forefoot (FFS) and rearfoot strike patterns (RFS). Kistler force plates and the Medilogic insole plantar pressure system were used to collect kinetic data. SR with RFS significantly reduced the maximum loading rate, whereas SR with FFS significantly increased the maximum push-off force compared to BR. Plantar pressure variables were more influenced by the strike patterns (15 out of 18 variables) than shoe conditions (7 out of 18 variables). The peak pressure of midfoot and heel regions was significantly increased in RFS, but appeared in a later time compared to FFS. The influence of strike patterns on running, particularly on plantar pressure characteristics, was more significant than that of shoe conditions. Heel-toe running caused a significant impact force on the heel, whereas wearing cushioned shoes significantly reduced the maximum loading rate. FFS running can prevent the impact caused by RFS. However, peak plantar pressure was centered at the forefoot for a long period, thereby inducing a potential risk of injury in the metatarsus/phalanx.		[Sun, Xiaole; Yang, Yang; Wang, Lin; Zhang, Xini; Fu, Weijie] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Kinesiol, Shanghai 200438, Peoples R China; [Wang, Lin; Fu, Weijie] Shanghai Univ Sport, Minist Educ, Key Lab Exercise & Hlth Sci, Shanghai 200438, Peoples R China; [Fu, Weijie] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Kinesiol, Shanghai 200438, Peoples R China								22							Sport Sciences	WOS:000447662500002	46	Article; Article		
J	Bellar, David; Etheredge, Cory; Judge, Lawrence W.								The Acute Effects of Different Forms of Suspension Push- Ups on Oxygen Consumption, Salivary Testosterone and Cortisol and Isometric Strength								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				64	1			77	85		10.1515/hukin-2017-0202			SEP 2018	2018	Suspension exercise systems are being used in strength and conditioning facilities, fitness centers, rehabilitation centers and home gyms. Though some evidence exists regarding the impact of training with these systems, more work is needed for a better understanding. The purpose of the present investigation was to examine the acute effects of an exercise session with 2 (hands only) and 4 straps (hands and feet) in the push-up exercise compared to a work-matched bench press exercise session. The participants for this repeated measures, cross-over investigation were 18 healthy college-aged males (age: 24.8 +/- 3.5 yrs, body mass: 81.8 +/- 7.8 kg, body height: 178.9 +/- 4.5 cm). The conditions were 6 sets of 10 repetitions of suspension push-ups using two straps (DUAL) for the hands, fours straps (QUAD) for hands and feet and a traditional bench press exercise matched to the average resistance during the suspension push-up. The participants performed all repetitions at a controlled cadence. Expired gases, and heart rate were monitored continuously during the exercise session. Pre and post exercise saliva samples were collected to quantify changes in testosterone and cortisol. Upper body isometric strength tests (UBIST) were performed (Post, 1 hr, 24 hr, 48 hr) to evaluate changes in force production during recovery. Data analysis via repeated measures ANOVA revealed a significant trend for increased oxygen consumption in the QUAD condition compared to the bench press (p = 0.019). Additionally, both suspension conditions resulted in a reduced respiratory exchange ratio as compared to the bench press (p < 0.05). A significant main effect was noted for time in all conditions regarding isometric strength (p < 0.001), but no differences between conditions were revealed. Testosterone and cortisol responses did not differ between conditions. Based upon these data, it appears that when matched for work, suspension exercise results in equivalent reductions in muscle force, but greater oxygen consumption compared to isotonic exercise.		[Bellar, David; Etheredge, Cory] Univ Louisiana, Sch Kinesiol, Lafayette, LA 70503 USA; [Judge, Lawrence W.] Ball State Univ, Sch Kinesiol, Muncie, IN 47306 USA; [Bellar, David] Univ Louisiana, Sch Kinesiol, 225 Cajundome Blvd, Lafayette, LA 70506 USA								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:000447662500008	27	Article; Article		
J	Gonzalez Rave, Jose Maria; Legaz-Arrese, Alejandro; Gonzalez-Mohino, Fernando; Yustres, Inmaculada; Barragan, Ruben; de Asis Fernandez, Francisco; Juarez, Daniel; Arroyo-Toledo, Juan Jaime								The Effects of Two Different Resisted Swim Training Load Protocols on Swimming Strength and Performance								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				64	1			195	204		10.1515/hukin-2017-0194			SEP 2018	2018	This study used a power rack device to evaluate the effects of 2 different approaches to resisted swim training loads on swimming strength and performance. Sixteen male, youth national-level swimmers (mean age, 16.22 +/- 2.63 years; body height, 169 +/- 10.20 cm; body mass, 61.33 +/- 9.90 kg) completed a 6-week specific strength-training program, and were then randomly assigned to one of the two groups: a standard training group (GS, n = 8) and a flat pyramid-loading pattern group (GP, n = 8). Strength and power tests along with specific swimming tests (50-m crawl and 50-m competition-style time trials) were conducted at baseline (pre-test), before the third week (mid-test), and after 6 weeks of intervention (post-test). Isokinetic swim bench tests were conducted to obtain measurements of force production and power, and 1RM tests with the power rack system were conducted to measure the maximum drag load (MDL) and specific swimming power. Following 6 weeks of intervention, the mean MDL increased (p < 0.05) by 13.94%. Scores for the 50-m competition style and 50-m crawl time trials improved by 0.32% and 0.78%, respectively, in the GP; however, those changes were not statistically significant. The GS significantly increased their time in the 50-m competition style by 2.59%, and their isokinetic force production decreased by 14.47% (p < 0.05). The 6-week strength-training program performed with the power rack device in a pyramidal organization was more effective than a standard linear load organization in terms of producing improvements in the MDL; however, it did not produce significant improvements in performance. The use of a strength-training program with a pyramidal organization can be recommended for specific strength-training in young swimmers during a preparatory period. However, in our study, that program did not produce significant changes in 50-m crawl and main competition style performance.		[Gonzalez Rave, Jose Maria; Gonzalez-Mohino, Fernando; Yustres, Inmaculada; Barragan, Ruben; de Asis Fernandez, Francisco; Juarez, Daniel] Univ Castilla La Mancha, Fac Sport Sci, Sport Training Lab, Toledo, Spain; [Legaz-Arrese, Alejandro] Univ Zaragoza, Sect Phys Educ & Sports, Zaragoza, Spain; [Arroyo-Toledo, Juan Jaime] Danish Swimming Federat, Farum, Denmark; [Gonzalez Rave, Jose Maria] Fac Sport Sci, Ave Carlos 3 S-N, Toledo 45071, Spain								9							Sport Sciences	WOS:000447662500018	36	Article; Article		
J	Alsasua, Roberto; Lapresa, Daniel; Arana, Javier; Teresa Anguera, M.; Garzon, Belen								Successful and Unsuccessful Offensive Sequences Ending in a Shot in Professional and Elite Under-16 Basketball								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				64	1			147	159		10.1515/hukin-2017-0191			SEP 2018	2018	Following observational methodology, we analyzed successful and unsuccessful offensive attacks by professional and elite under-16 (U16) basketball players in Spain using an adapted ad hoc observation instrument designed to study efficiency in basketball. We identified both similarities and differences between how players from both categories built their attacks. The synchronic statistical analysis based on frequency counts showed that shots were more efficient in professional basketball and that U16 basketball was less static and had a higher frequency of fast breaks. Diachronic analysis, which consisted of T-pattern detection using Theme software, allowed us to identify characteristic successful and unsuccessful offensive sequences in professional and elite U16 basketball. These results have practical implications as they can be used to design training drills and prepare for competitions in U16 and professional basketball.		[Alsasua, Roberto; Lapresa, Daniel; Arana, Javier; Garzon, Belen] Univ La Rioja, Dept Educ Sci, Edificio Vives C Luis de Ulloa S-N, Logrorio 26004, Spain; [Teresa Anguera, M.] Univ Barcelona, Inst Neurosci, Fac Psychol, Barcelona, Spain; [Lapresa, Daniel] Univ La Rioja, Dept Educ Sci, Edificio Vives C Luis de Ulloa S-N, Logrorio 26004, Spain								16							Sport Sciences	WOS:000447662500014	39	Article; Article		
J	Vargas, Jorge; Loureiro, Manuel; Nikolaidis, Pantelis T.; Knechtle, Beat; Laporta, Lorenzo; Marcelino, Rui; Afonso, Jose								Rethinking Monolithic Pathways to Success and Talent Identification: The Case of the Women's Japanese Volleyball Team and Why Height is Not Everything								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				64	1			233	245		10.1515/hukin-2017-0197			SEP 2018	2018	The aim of the present study was to analyse the Japanese National Women's Volleyball Team and to identify items differentiating it from other teams. All fifteen matches between the six National Teams (i.e., Japan, Brazil, China, Belgium, Turkey and Russia) competing at the Women's Volleyball World Grand Prix Finals of 2014 were analyzed, in a total of 56 sets and 7,176 situations of ball possession. Data suggested the existence of differences between Japan's and the other five teams' gameplay, namely the likelihood of more gameplay with utilization of the float jump serve (20.42; +/- 3.79%, very large magnitude) and attack tempo 2 (61.89; +/- 29.67%, large magnitude), while exhibiting less gameplay with zero blockers opposing the attack (-42.06; +/- 21.28%, large magnitude). Based on these findings, it was concluded that sports success could be achieved even when a core feature of mainstream performance models (e. g., height in volleyball) was lacking.		[Vargas, Jorge; Loureiro, Manuel; Laporta, Lorenzo; Afonso, Jose] Univ Porto, Fac Sport, Porto, Portugal; [Nikolaidis, Pantelis T.] Exercise Physiol Lab, Nikaia, Greece; [Knechtle, Beat] Univ Zurich, Inst Primary Care, Zurich, Switzerland; [Marcelino, Rui] Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth & Human Dev, Vila Real, Portugal; [Nikolaidis, Pantelis T.] Thermopylon 7, Nikaia 18450, Greece								9							Sport Sciences	WOS:000447662500021	38	Article; Article		
J	Milanovic, Dragan; Vuleta, Dinko; Ohnjec, Katarina								Performance Indicators of Winning and Defeated Female Handball Teams in Matches of the 2012 Olympic Games Tournament								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				64	1			247	253		10.1515/hukin-2017-0198			SEP 2018	2018	The aim of the study was to determine performance indicators of winning and defeated women teams of the 2012 Olympic Games handball tournament. The sample of entities consisted of 27 games played during the preliminary round of the competition. The sample of variables consisted of the completed and unsuccessfully executed technical and tactical handball elements in attacking and defensive actions during handball matches (14 variables describing performance in attack and three variables related to defensive play). The differences between the winning and defeated teams in performance variables were determined using the Mann-Whitney U-test. The results showed statistically significant differences between the winning and defeated teams in the following variables: successful fast-break shots (5.11 +/- 2.79 vs. 3.00 +/- 1.88), unsuccessful wing shots (2.33 +/- 1.24 vs. 3.67 +/- 1.98), unsuccessful long-range shots (10.70 +/- 3.98 vs. 13.37 +/- 4.33), steals (5.48 +/- 2.28 vs. 4.04 +/- 2.07), and assists (13.81 +/- 4.04 vs. 11.37 +/- 3.59). The winning teams were better in the variables defining offensive performance effectiveness, especially with regard to successful performance of counter attacks; they also had higher efficiency of attacking actions with a strict selection of distance shots and wing shots, as well as a higher number of assists and steals.		[Milanovic, Dragan; Vuleta, Dinko; Ohnjec, Katarina] Univ Zagreb, Fac Kinesiol, Horvacanski Zavoj 15, Zagreb 10000, Croatia; [Ohnjec, Katarina] Univ Zagreb, Fac Kinesiol, Horvacanski Zavoj 15, Zagreb 10000, Croatia								31							Sport Sciences	WOS:000447662500022	22	Article; Article		
J	Tai, Wei-Hsun; Wang, Li-I; Peng, Hsien-Te								Biomechanical Comparisons of One-Legged and Two-Legged Running Vertical Jumps								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				64	1			71	76		10.1515/hukin-2017-0185			SEP 2018	2018	The purpose of this study was to determine the differences in biomechanical characteristics between one-and two-legged running vertical jumps (1-LRVJ and 2-LRVJ). Ten male college volleyball players voluntarily participated in this study. Two running vertical jumps used in volleyball were randomly performed. Three trials for each type of the running vertical jump were recorded for each participant. Data were collected using six infra-red Qualisys motion-capture cameras at a 180-Hz sampling rate and two AMTI force platforms at an 1800-Hz sampling rate. Jump height in the 2-LRVJ was significantly higher than that in the 1-LRVJ (p < 0.05). In the take-off phase, knee and hip extension impulses for the 1-LRVJ were significantly greater than those for the 2-LRVJ (p < 0.05). These results suggest that the 1-LRVJ produced greater leg stiffness than the 2-LRVJ did. We found that the 1-LRVJ caused greater lower-extremity stiffness and impulse compared to the 2-LRVJ, which is beneficial in the stretch-shortening cycle, and thus the more focus on practicing 1-LRVJs is recommended for coaches and athletes.		[Tai, Wei-Hsun] Quanzhou Normal Univ, Sch Phys Educ, Quanzhou City 362000, Fujian, Peoples R China; [Wang, Li-I] Natl Dong Hwa Univ, Dept Phys Educ & Kinesiol, 1,Sec 2,Da Hsueh Rd, Hualien 97401, Taiwan; [Peng, Hsien-Te] Chinese Culture Univ, Dept Phys Educ, 55 Hwa Kang Rd, Taipei 11114, Taiwan; [Peng, Hsien-Te] Chinese Culture Univ, Dept Phys Educ, 55 Hwa Kang Rd, Taipei 11114, Taiwan								14							Sport Sciences	WOS:000447662500007	26	Article; Article		
J	Helm, Norman; Prieske, Olaf; Muehlbauer, Thomas; Krueger, Tom; Chaabene, Helmi; Granacher, Urs								Validation of A New Judo-Specific Ergometer System in Male Elite and Sub-Elite Athletes								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				17	3			465	474					SEP 2018	2018	Our experimental approach included two studies to determine discriminative validity and test-retest reliability (study 1) as well as ecological validity (study 2) of a judo ergometer system while performing judo-specific movements. Sixteen elite (age: 23 +/- 3 years) and 11 sub-elite (age: 16 +/- 1 years) athletes participated in study 1 and 14 male sub-elite judo athletes participated in study 2. Discriminative validity and test-retest reliability of sport-specific parameters (mechanical work, maximal force) were assessed during pulling movements with and without tsukuri (kuzushi). Ecological validity of muscle activity was determined by performing pulling movements using the ergometer without tsukuri and during the same movements against an opponent. In both conditions, electromyographic activity of trunk (e.g., m. erector spinae) and upper limb muscles (e.g., m. biceps brachii) were assessed separately for the lifting and pulling arm. Elite athletes showed mostly better mechanical work, maximal force, and power (0.12 <= d <= 1.80) compared with sub-elite athletes. The receiver operating characteristic analysis revealed acceptable validity of the JERGo(C) system to discriminate athletes of different performance levels predominantly during kuzushi without tsukuri (area under the curve = 0.27-0.90). Moreover, small-to-medium discriminative validity was found to detect meaningful performance changes for mechanical work and maximal force. The JERGo(C) system showed small-to-high relative (ICC = 0.37-0.92) and absolute reliability (SEM = 10.8-18.8%). Finally, our analyses revealed acceptable correlations (r = 0.41-0.88) between muscle activity during kuzushi performed with the JERGo(C) system compared with a judo opponent. Our findings indicate that the JERGo(C) system is a valid and reliable test instrument for the assessment and training of judo-specific pulling kinetics particularly during kuzushi movement without tsukuri.		[Helm, Norman] Olymp Testing & Training Ctr Brandenburg, Potsdam, Germany; [Helm, Norman; Prieske, Olaf; Muehlbauer, Thomas; Krueger, Tom; Chaabene, Helmi; Granacher, Urs] Univ Potsdam, Div Training & Movement Sci, Neuen Palais 10,Bldg 12, D-14469 Potsdam, Germany; [Muehlbauer, Thomas] Univ Duisburg Essen, Div Movement & Training Sci Biomech Sport, Essen, Germany; [Granacher, Urs] Univ Potsdam, Div Training & Movement Sci, Neuen Palais 10,Bldg 12, D-14469 Potsdam, Germany								10							Sport Sciences	WOS:000441564200015	36	Article; Article		
J	Guillamo, Elisabet; Cobo-Calvo, Alvaro; Oviedo, Guillermo R.; Travier, Noemie; Alamo, Juan; Nino-Mendez, Oscar A.; Martinez-Yelamos, Antonio; Martinez-Yelamos, Sergio; Javierre, Casimiro								Feasibility and Effects of Structured Physical Exercise Interventions in Adults with Relapsing-Remitting Multiple Sclerosis: A Pilot Study								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				17	3			426	436					SEP 2018	2018	Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a chronic neurological disease which affects young adults at a time of maximum personal, professional and social growth. Recent guidelines on physical activity have established that exercise is an essential component of the clinical management of people with MS with mild or moderate degree of disability. The main purpose of this study was to test the feasibility and the effects of two different 40-week structured physical exercise interventions (a supervised high intensity interval training plus home exercise program and a self-applied home-based exercise program) on clinical evolution, psychological wellbeing, quality of life, fatigue, cardiorespiratory fitness, strength and balance of people with MS. Twenty-nine participants with relapsing-remitting MS (RRMS) participated in this study. All of them were fully ambulatory and with minimal disability (Expanded Disability Status Scale <3), for at least the last six months. Participants selected to be part of a combined face-to-face plus home exercise group (CFTFG; n = 8); a self-applied home-based exercise group (HG; n = 11) or a control group (CG; n = 10). A total of 23 participants completed the protocol (79.3%), of which 8 participants (100%) from the CFTFG, 7 (63.6%) from the HG and 8 (80%) from the CG. During the first 20-weeks of training, adherence from the CFTFG reached 77.5% and from the HG reached 50 %. During the second 20-weeks of training, adherence from the CFTFG reached 62.5% and from the HG reached 45.4%. After 20-weeks of training, a significant improvement in the absolute VO2 peak and in the 30-second sit to stand test was observed in the CFTFG (all p < .05). This study confirms that offering a 40-week structured exercise programme to a group of fully ambulatory and minimally disabled persons with RRMS is feasible and safe. Any adverse event related to the trial was reported by the participants.		[Guillamo, Elisabet; Alamo, Juan; Javierre, Casimiro] Univ Barcelona, Sch Med, Dept Physiol Sci, Barcelona, Spain; [Cobo-Calvo, Alvaro; Martinez-Yelamos, Antonio; Martinez-Yelamos, Sergio] Bellvitge Univ Hosp, Dept Neurol, Barcelona, Spain; [Cobo-Calvo, Alvaro] Pierre Wertheimer Hosp Civils Lyon, Hop Neurol, Serv Neurol, Lyon, France; [Oviedo, Guillermo R.] Univ Ramon Llull, Fac Psychol Educ & Sport Sci Blanquerna, 34 Cister St, Barcelona 08022, Spain; [Oviedo, Guillermo R.] Univ Ramon Llull, Blanquerna Sch Hlth Sci, Barcelona, Spain; [Travier, Noemie] Catalan Inst Oncol, Breast Canc Screening Unit, Canc Prevent & Control Program, Lhospitalet De Llobregat, Barcelona, Spain; [Nino-Mendez, Oscar A.] Univ Cundinamarca, Fac Sport Sci & Phys Educ, Fusagasuga, Colombia; [Oviedo, Guillermo R.] Univ Ramon Llull, Fac Psychol Educ & Sport Sci Blanquerna, 34 Cister St, Barcelona 08022, Spain								14							Sport Sciences	WOS:000441564200011	33	Article; Article		
J	Chlif, Mehdi; Keochkerian, David; Temfemo, Abdou; Choquet, Dominique; Ahmaidi, Said								Relationship between Electromyogram Spectrum Parameters and the Tension-Time Index during Incremental Exercise in Trained Subjects								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				17	3			509	514					SEP 2018	2018	The inspiratory muscle tension-time index T-T0.1(given by P-0.1/PI-max X T-I/T-TOT) could be used to reliably assess inspiratory muscle activity during exercise. So far, the correlation between the T(T0.1 )and diaphragmatic activity has not been measured and the T-T0.1 has not been compared with other measurements of the inspiratory muscle load such as the transdiaphragmatic pressure index or T-T0.1. In this study we hypothesize that the T-T0.1 measuring the mouth is a noninvasive reflection of the electromyographic activity of the diaphragm. We simultaneously measured T-T0.1 and surface EMG (SEMG) of 8 trained subjects at rest and during incremental exercise. The curvature of Tro 1 and the root mean square (RMS) follow the same trend during the incremental exercise with a significant correlation between T-T0.1 and surface EMG parameters (RMS; r = 0.81 p < 0.001 and MPF; r = 0.80 p < 0.001 respectively). We conclude that T-T0.1 measured as s an adequate noninvasive method reflects the diaphragmatic activity during incremental exercise in healthy subjects.		[Chlif, Mehdi] Natl Ctr Med & Sci Sports, Tunisian Res Lab Sport Performance Optimizat, Tunis, Tunisia; [Keochkerian, David; Temfemo, Abdou; Choquet, Dominique; Ahmaidi, Said] Picardie Jules Verne Univ, EA APERE Adaptat Rehabil 3300, Sport Sci Dept, F-80025 Amiens, France; [Chlif, Mehdi] Natl Ctr Med & Sci Sports CNMSS, Res Unit Evaluat Sport Sante, Bp263,Ave Med Ali Akid, Tunis 1004, Tunisia								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:000441564200020	23	Article; Article		
J	Kostikiadis, Ioannis N.; Methenitis, Spyridon; Tsoukos, Athanasios; Veligekas, Panagiotis; Terzis, Gerasimos; Bogdanis, Gregory C.								The Effect of Short-Term Sport-Specific Strength and Conditioning Training on Physical Fitness of Well-Trained Mixed Martial Arts Athletes								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				17	3			348	358					SEP 2018	2018	The purpose of the present study was to investigate the effect of a short-term, high-intensity, low-volume Mixed Martial Arts (MMA) specific strength and conditioning training program on performance in national level MMA athletes. Seventeen experienced fighters were divided into two groups: (A) Specific Training Group (STG; n = 10), which followed a specific strength and conditioning program designed according to the demands of MMA competition and (B) Regular Training Group (RTG; n = 7), in which participants followed a regular strength and conditioning program commonly used by MMA athletes. Before and after the four-week training period (3 days per week), body composition, aerobic fitness, strength, power and speed were evaluated. Significant improvements in estimated VO(2max )average power during the 2000 m rowing, bench press, back squat and deadlift 1RM, SJ power, CMJ height power, medicine ball throw velocity, 10 m sprint and 2 m take down speed and fat-free mass were found only in the STG (3.7 to 22.2%; p < 0.05; Hedge's g = -0.42 - 4.1). No significant changes were found for the RTG (p = 0.225 to 0.811). Significant differences between the groups were found for almost all post-training assessments (p < 0.05; Hedge's g = 0.25 - 1.45) as well as for the percentage changes from pre to post training (p < 0.05; Hedge's g: 0.25 - 1.45). Significant relationships were found between percentage changes in fat-free mass, endurance capacity, muscle strength/power and speed (r: 0.475 to 0.758; p < 0.05). These results suggest that a high-intensity low-volume strength and conditioning training intervention designed according to the demands of MMA competition may result in significant performance improvements for well-trained fighters.		[Kostikiadis, Ioannis N.; Methenitis, Spyridon; Tsoukos, Athanasios; Veligekas, Panagiotis; Terzis, Gerasimos; Bogdanis, Gregory C.] Univ Athens, Athlet Lab, Sch Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Antistassis 41, Athens 17237, Greece; [Bogdanis, Gregory C.] Univ Athens, Athlet Lab, Sch Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Antistassis 41, Athens 17237, Greece								61							Sport Sciences	WOS:000441564200002	39	Article; Article		
J	Yoo, Sihyun; Park, Sang-Kyoon; Yoon, Sukhoon; Lim, Hee Sung; Ryu, Jiseon								Comparison of Proprioceptive Training and Muscular Strength Training to Improve Balance Ability of Taekwondo Poomsae Athletes: A Randomized Controlled Trials								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				17	3			445	454					SEP 2018	2018	Maintaining balance while performing "Hakdariseogi" in Taekwondo, which involves standing on one leg, is a critical aspect of the Poomsae competition. The purpose of this study was to investigate the effect of proprioceptive training and lower-limb muscular strength training on the balance of Taekwondo Poomsae athletes over a 6-week period. Thirty Taekwondo Poomsae athletes were randomly assigned to three groups, namely, a proprioception training group, a lower-limb muscular strength training group, and a control group. Biomechanics data were collected using eight infrared cameras (Qualysis, Sweden) at 200 Hz and a force plate (Kistler, Switzerland) at 2,000 Hz while the participants performed "Hakdariseogi" before and after the 6-week intervention. Balance and stability variables were calculated using customized MATLAB R2014b software (Mathworks, Inc., USA). The medio-lateral (M/L) center of pressure (CoP) range, M/L CoP mean velocity, antero-posterior (A/P) CoP range, A/P CoP mean velocity, and the vertical ground reaction torque after the training were reduced at P1 in the PG groups (p < 0.05). A decrease in the A/P CoP range, A/P CoP mean velocity, and vertical ground reaction torque after the training were observed at P2 in the PG and SG groups (p < 0.05). The PG exhibited a smaller A/P CoP range and A/P CoP mean velocity, in comparison to CG (p < 0.05). The A/P CoP position at P1 was negatively correlated with the vertical ground reaction torque, A/P CoP range, and A/P CoP mean velocity at P2(r = -0.438, r = -0.626, r = -0.638). Based on the above results, this study determined that both proprioception training and lower-extremity muscle strength training resulted in an improvement of athletic performance. It was also desirable to move the CoP position through conscious effort forward at P2 in order to maintain the crane stance without sway.		[Yoo, Sihyun; Park, Sang-Kyoon; Yoon, Sukhoon; Lim, Hee Sung; Ryu, Jiseon] Korea Natl Sport Univ, Mot Innovat Ctr, Inst Sport Sci, Yangjaedaero 1239, Seoul, South Korea; [Yoo, Sihyun] Korea Natl Sport Univ, Mot Innovat Ctr, Inst Sport Sci, Yangjaedaero 1239, Seoul, South Korea								30							Sport Sciences	WOS:000441564200013	45	Article; Article		
J	Heiss, Rafael; Hotfiel, Thilo; Kellermann, Marion; May, Matthias S.; Wuest, Wolfgang; Janka, Rolf; Nagel, Armin M.; Uder, Michael; Hammon, Matthias								Effect of Compression Garments on the Development of Edema and Soreness in Delayed-Onset Muscle Soreness (DOMS)								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				17	3			392	401					SEP 2018	2018	Delayed-onset muscle soreness (DOMS), an ultrastmctural muscle injury, is one of the most common reasons for impaired muscle performance. The purpose of this study was to investigate the influence of sport compression garments on the development of exercise-induced intramuscular edema in the context of DOMS. DOMS was induced in 15 healthy participants. The participants performed a standardized eccentric exercise of the calf muscles. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was performed at baseline and 60h after exercise (T2-weighted signal intensity and T2 relaxation time was evaluated in each compartment and the intramuscular edema in the medial head of the gastrocnemius muscle was segmented). After the exercise, a conventional compression garment (18-21 mmHg) was placed on one randomized calf for 60h. The level of muscle soreness was evaluated using a visual analogue pain scale. T2-weighted signal intensity, T2 relaxation time and intramuscular edema showed a significant interaction for time with increased signal intensities/intramuscular edema in the medial head of the gastrocnemius muscle at follow-up compared to baseline. No significant main effect for compression or interaction between time and limb occurred. Further, no significant differences in the soleus muscle and the lateral head of the gastrocnemius muscle were noted between limbs or over time. After exercise, there was significantly increased muscle soreness in both lower legs in resting condition and when going downstairs and a decreased range of motion in the ankle joint. No significant difference was observed between the compressed and the non-compressed calf. Our results indicate that wearing conventional compression garments after DOMS has been induced has no significant effect on the development of muscle edema, muscle soreness, range of motion and calf circumference.		[Heiss, Rafael; May, Matthias S.; Wuest, Wolfgang; Janka, Rolf; Nagel, Armin M.; Uder, Michael; Hammon, Matthias] Friedrich Alexander Univ FAU Erlangen Nuremberg, Univ Hosp Erlangen, Dept Radiol, Maximilianspl 3, D-91054 Erlangen, Germany; [Hotfiel, Thilo; Kellermann, Marion] Friedrich Alexander Univ Erlangen Nuremberg, Dept Orthoped Surg, Div Orthoped Rheumatol, Erlangen, Germany; [Heiss, Rafael] Friedrich Alexander Univ FAU Erlangen Nuremberg, Univ Hosp Erlangen, Dept Radiol, Maximilianspl 3, D-91054 Erlangen, Germany								39							Sport Sciences	WOS:000441564200007	51	Article; Article		
J	Hammami, Mohammed A.; Ben Abderrahm, Abderraouf; Rhibi, Fatma; Nebigh, Ammar; Coppalle, Sullivan; Rave, Guillaume; Tabka, Zouhair; Zouhal, Hassane								Somatotype Hormone Levels and Physical Fitness in Elite Young Soccer Players over a Two-Year Monitoring Period								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				17	3			455	464					SEP 2018	2018	The effect of two soccer-training seasons on the growth, development and somatotype hormone concentrations of elite youth soccer players were evaluated. Eighteen elite soccer players and 18 age-matched non-athletic control subjects participated in the study. Anthropometric-measurements, aerobic and anaerobic performance tests and serum concentrations of insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1), insulin-like growth factor binding protein-3 (IGFBP-3), and growth hormone (GH) were assessed at 5 time points across two competitive seasons. Soccer players revealed higher GH, IGF-1 and IGFBP-3 than the control group across all-time points. Significant moderate correlations were observed only in soccer players between hormonal concentrations (IGF-1 and IGFBP-3) and the jumping tests (r = 0.45-0.48; p < 0.01). Somatotropic axis hormones, anthropometric and physical parameters increased to a greater degree with growth and soccer training combined compared to growth alone. Results from this investigation revealed that intense training did not impair growth or development in these young soccer players across 2-year period.		[Hammami, Mohammed A.; Rhibi, Fatma; Coppalle, Sullivan; Zouhal, Hassane] Univ Rennes, Lab Mouvement Sport Sante M2S, Rennes, France; [Hammami, Mohammed A.; Nebigh, Ammar; Tabka, Zouhair] Univ Sousse, Ibn Eljazzar Fac Med, Lab Physiol & Funct Explorat, Sousse, Tunisia; [Ben Abderrahm, Abderraouf; Nebigh, Ammar] Univ Manouba, High Inst Sports & Phys Educ ISSEP Ksar Said, Manouba, Tunisia; [Ben Abderrahm, Abderraouf; Rhibi, Fatma] Univ Carthage, Fac Sci Bizerte, Lab Biomonitoring Environm, Tunis, Tunisia; [Rave, Guillaume] Stade Lavallois Mayenne Football Club, Laval, France; [Zouhal, Hassane] Univ Rennes, Lab Mouvement Sport Sante M2S, EA 1274, F-35000 Rennes, France								17							Sport Sciences	WOS:000441564200014	30	Article; Article		
J	Yague, Jose M.; de la Rubia, Alfonso; Sanchez-Molina, Joaquin; Maroto-Izquierdo, Sergio; Molinero, Olga								The Relative Age Effect in the 10 Best Leagues of Male Professional Football of the Union of European Football Associations (UEFA)								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				17	3			409	416					SEP 2018	2018	The aim of the present research was to observe the relative age effect on professional soccer players of the ten best leagues of the Union of European Football Associations (UEFA), according to the IFFHS (International Federation of Football History and Statistics). The sample consisted of 5201 professional players who participated in the professional leagues during the 2016-2017 season. The birth date of each player was classified in four quartiles (Q1, Q2, Q3 and Q4). The frequencies (fr) and percentages (%) of the birth quartiles were analyzed. The chi square test (X-2) and degrees of freedom (gl) were performed to check the differences in the intergroup distribution. Likewise, odd ratios were calculated for the different quartiles, where Q4 was the reference group according to the different leagues studied, playing positions (goalkeeper, defender, midfielder and forward) and classification (first four places, half-of the table and four last places). To calculate the size of the effect on the nominal variables, the Cramer V test was carried out. The results confirmed a greater representation of players born in Q1 and Q2, indicating statistically significant values (p < 0.05) for all the leagues studied, except in the Eerste Klasse A (Belgium). This significance was repeated for the demarcation variables in the field, with a greater effect in the case of the midfielders. Finally, the RAE also affected the three groups according to teams' classification. The conclusions confirm the effect of the RAE in the sample studied, which would require a review of the talent selection processes in football in order to balance the chances of success of players born at the end of the year.		[Yague, Jose M.] Univ Leon, Fac Phys Act & Sports Sci, Leon, Spain; [de la Rubia, Alfonso; Sanchez-Molina, Joaquin] Univ Europea Madrid, Fac Sport Sci, Calle Tajo S-N, Madrid 28670, Spain; [Maroto-Izquierdo, Sergio; Molinero, Olga] Univ Leon, Fac Phys Act & Sports Sci, Inst Biomed, Leon, Spain; [de la Rubia, Alfonso] Univ Europea Madrid, Fac Sport Sci, Calle Tajo S-N, Madrid 28670, Spain								56							Sport Sciences	WOS:000441564200009	54	Article; Article		
J	Hsu, Wei-Ting; Pan, Yi-Hsiang								Moral Disengagement and Student Misbehavior in Physical Education								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				17	3			437	444					SEP 2018	2018	This study examined how mechanisms of moral disengagement (MD) were related to students' self-reported misbehaviors. Participants were 282 and 336 high school students enrolled in physical education classes. In Stage 1, results of regression analysis showed that advantageous comparison and nonresponsibility positively predicted four misbehaviors (i.e., low engagement, failure to follow directions, poor self-management, and distracting behavior). In Stage 2, results of the structural equation modeling confirmed that advantageous comparison and non-responsibility were the significant predictors of student misbehavior in physical education. It is suggested that prevention and intervention programs should address students' advantageous comparison (e.g., compared to skipping class, it is not a big deal to be shirking in class) and non-responsibility (e.g., no one is taking the class seriously; I am just one of them) to reduce misbehaviors in the physical education context.		[Hsu, Wei-Ting] Fo Guang Univ, Ctr Gen Educ, Jiaoxi, Taiwan; [Pan, Yi-Hsiang] Natl Taiwan Sport Univ, Grad Inst Phys Educ, 250 Wen Hwa 1st Rd, Taoyuan, Taiwan; [Pan, Yi-Hsiang] Natl Taiwan Sport Univ, Grad Inst Phys Educ, 250 Wen Hwa 1st Rd, Taoyuan, Taiwan								9							Sport Sciences	WOS:000441564200012	37	Article; Article		
J	Maroni, Tessa; Dawson, Brian; Dennis, Myles; Naylor, Louise; Brade, Carly; Wallman, Karen								Effects of Half-Time Cooling Using A Cooling Glove and Jacket on Manual Dexterity and Repeated-Sprint Performance in Heat								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				17	3			485	491					SEP 2018	2018	This study aimed to assess the separate and combined effects of a cooling glove (CG) and a gel-cooling jacket (CJ) used during a half-time break on manual dexterity performance (Purdue Pegboard test) and subsequent repeat-sprint cycling performance in hot conditions. Twelve male athletes performed four experimental trials (within subjects, counterbalanced design) that consisted of: wearing a CG, wearing a CJ, combination of CG and CJ (CG+J) or a no-cooling control (NC) for 15 min during a 20 min half-time break performed between 2 x 30 min repeated-sprint cycling bouts in heat (35.0 +/- 1.2 degrees C and 52.5 +/- 7.4% RH). Manual dexterity (dominant and non-dominant hand) was assessed immediately before and after the first-half of exercise, then immediately after cooling and the second-half of exercise. No differences were found for manual dexterity performance between trials or over time (p > 0.05). Additionally, no differences were found for power and work performance variables assessed during the second-half of exercise (p > 0.05), however participants felt 'cooler' wearing CG+J compared to NC (Thermal Sensation scale; p = 0.041). Further, no differences were found between trials for changes in gastrointestinal core temperature for any time period assessed (p > 0.05). In conclusion, the cooling trials did not affect manual dexterity or second-half repeated-sprint cycling performance compared to NC.		[Maroni, Tessa; Dawson, Brian; Dennis, Myles; Naylor, Louise; Wallman, Karen] Univ Western Australia, Sch Human Sci Exercise & Sports Sci, Crawley, WA, Australia; [Brade, Carly] Curtin Univ, Sch Physiotherapy & Exercise Sci, Perth, WA, Australia; [Maroni, Tessa] Univ Western Australia, Sch Human Sci Exercise & Sports Sci, M408,35 Stirling Hwy, Perth, WA 6009, Australia								6							Sport Sciences	WOS:000441564200017	33	Article; Article		
J	Hernandez, Sebastian; Ramirez-Campillo, Rodrigo; Alvarez, Cristian; Sanchez-Sanchez, Javier; Moran, Jason; Pereira, Lucas A.; Loturco, Irineu								Effects of Plyometric Training on Neuromuscular Performance in Youth Basketball Players: A Pilot Study on the Influence of Drill Randomization								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				17	3			372	378					SEP 2018	2018	The aim of this single-blind randomized controlled trial was to compare the effects of plyometric jump training (PJT), with (RG) and without (NRG) between-session drill randomization, on performance measures (i.e., jumping and sprinting abilities, change of direction speed, and technical performance) in youth male basketball players (age, 10.2 +/- 1.7 years), assigned to either the NRG (n = 7), RG (n = 6), or control group (n = 6). Before and after the intervention, countermovement jump, 20-cm drop jump, 30-m sprint (with or without ball dribbling), and change-of-direction speed tests were completed. The PJT was applied twice per week for seven weeks. The only difference between PJT groups was the order of drill execution. An ANOVA was used to detect differences between study groups. The analyses revealed significant main effects of time (all p<.01; d = 0.64-0.89) and group x time interaction (all p<.05; d=0.31-51) for all examined variables. Post hoc analyses revealed moderate-large significant improvements for the RG (countermovement jump: 18.8%, d = 0.6; 20-cm drop jump: 23.9%, d = 0.80; 30-m sprint: 11.6%, d = 1.13; 30-m sprint with ball dribbling: 9.3%, d = 0.54; change of direction speed test: 14.6%, d = 1.82). In contrast, post hoc analyses revealed only small improvements for the NRG (20-cm drop jump: 14.1%, d = 0.36; 30-m sprint: 6.8%, d = 0.45; 30-m sprint with ball dribbling: 8.8%, d = 0.35; change of direction speed test: 10.5%, d = 0.49). Application of PJT without randomization is effective for improving physical and technical qualities. However, PJT could be more beneficial when executed with between-session randomization of drills.		[Hernandez, Sebastian; Ramirez-Campillo, Rodrigo; Alvarez, Cristian] Univ Los Lagos Osorno, Dept Phys Act Sci Res Nucleus Hlth Phys Act & Spo, Osorno, Chile; [Sanchez-Sanchez, Javier] Pontifical Univ Salamanca, Res Grp Planning & Assessment Training & Athlet P, Salamanca, Spain; [Moran, Jason] Univ West England, Univ Ctr Hartpury, Dept Sport, Bristol, Avon, England; [Pereira, Lucas A.; Loturco, Irineu] Nucleus High Performance Sport NAR, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Loturco, Irineu] Nucleus High Performance Sport NAR, Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil								33							Sport Sciences	WOS:000441564200005	30	Article; Article		
J	Joeng, Hee Seong; Na, Young Moo; Lee, Sae Yong; Cho, Young Jae								Injuries among Korean Female Professional Golfers: A Prospective Study								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				17	3			492	500					SEP 2018	2018	This study aims to analyze the incidence, location, type, and mechanisms of injuries and possible injury risk factors among all levels of Korean female professional golfers. This was a prospective study with a follow-up period of 24 months. A total of 363 members of the Korean Ladies Professional Golf Association (KLPGA), who competed in tournaments during the 2015 and 2016 seasons, took part in the study. The incidence of injury varied by tournament level and was significantly higher in Division II (11.1/1000AEs) and Division III (13.4/1000AEs) than in Division I (5.6/1000AEs) (p < 0.05). The most common location and type of injury were the shoulder/clavicle (Division I: 14.1%, Division II: 15.7%, Division III: 17.3%) and the tendinosis or ten-dinopathy (21.2%) (Division I: 23.7%, Division II: 21.2%, Division III: 18.5%), respectively. The most common mechanism of injury was the golf swing (47.9%-51.6% for the three divisions), and the most frequent specific phase of injury was upon ball impact (23.5%-30.9%). Multivariate analysis revealed that body mass index and the number of previous season competitions were significantly associated with injury risk in female golfers. The other factors examined did not have a significant association with golf-related injuries. In conclusion, KLPGA golfers were commonly exposed to injuries and showed a higher rate of injuries in competitions than practices, with significantly higher in Division II, III than Division I. However, overall, there was no significant difference in the location, type, mechanism and risk factors for injuries among the division level of KLPGA.		[Joeng, Hee Seong; Na, Young Moo; Cho, Young Jae] SOL Hosp, Dept Rehabil Med, 352 Banghwa Daero, Seoul 07592, South Korea; [Joeng, Hee Seong; Lee, Sae Yong] Yonsei Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Seoul, South Korea; [Joeng, Hee Seong; Na, Young Moo; Lee, Sae Yong; Cho, Young Jae] Yonsei Univ, YISSEM, Seoul, South Korea; [Cho, Young Jae] SOL Hosp, Dept Rehabil Med, 352 Banghwa Daero, Seoul 07592, South Korea								8							Sport Sciences	WOS:000441564200018	40	Article; Article		
J	Williams, Sean; West, Stephen; Howells, Dan; Kemp, Simon P. T.; Flatt, Andrew A.; Stokes, Keith								Modelling the HRV Response to Training Loads in Elite Rugby Sevens Players								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				17	3			402	408					SEP 2018	2018	A systems modelling approach can be used to describe and optimise responses to training stimuli within individuals. However, the requirement for regular maximal performance testing has precluded the widespread implementation of such modelling approaches in team-sport settings. Heart rate variability (HRV) can be used to measure an athlete's adaptation to training load, without disrupting the training process. As such, the aim of the current study was to assess whether chronic HRV responses, as a representative marker of training adaptation, could be predicted from the training loads undertaken by elite Rugby Sevens players. Eight international male players were followed prospectively throughout an eight-week pre-season period, with HRV and training loads (session-RPE [sRPE] and high-speed distance [HSD]) recorded daily. The Banister model was used to estimate vagally-mediated chronic HRV responses to training loads over the first four weeks (tuning dataset); these estimates were then used to predict chronic HRV responses in the subsequent four-week period (validation dataset). Across the tuning dataset, high correlations were observed between modelled and recorded HRV for both sRPE (r = 0.66 +/- 0.32) and HSD measures (r = 0.69 +/- 0.12). Across the sRPE validation dataset, seven of the eight athletes met the criterion for validity (typical error <3% and Pearson r >0.30), compared to one athlete in the HSD validation dataset. The sRPE validation data produced likely lower mean bias values, and most likely higher Pearson correlations, compared to the HSD validation dataset. These data suggest that a systems theory approach can be used to accurately model chronic HRV responses to internal training loads within elite Rugby Sevens players, which may be useful for optimising the training process on an individual basis.		[Williams, Sean; West, Stephen; Stokes, Keith] Univ Bath, Dept Hlth, Bath BA2 7JY, Avon, England; [Howells, Dan; Kemp, Simon P. T.] Rugby Football Union, Twickenham, England; [Flatt, Andrew A.] Georgia Southern Univ, Dept Hlth Sci & Kinesiol, Savannah, GA USA; [Williams, Sean] Univ Bath, Dept Hlth, Bath BA2 7JY, Avon, England								20							Sport Sciences	WOS:000441564200008	49	Article; Article		
J	Augustsson, Sofia Ryman; Tranberg, Roy; Zugner, Roland; Augustsson, Jesper								Vertical drop jump landing depth influences knee kinematics in female recreational athletes								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				33				133	138		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.08.002			SEP 2018	2018	Objectives: To examine whether different vertical drop jump (VDJ) landing depth (small versus deep) and stance width (wide versus narrow) may alter movement biomechanics in female recreational athletes. The purpose was also to identify whether leg muscle strength is a predictive factor for knee control during a VDJ. Design: Cross-sectional. Setting: Biomechanics laboratory. Participants: Eighteen women aged between 18 and 30 years. Main outcome measures: Three VDJ tests were used for biomechanical analysis: 1) small "bounce" jump (BJ), 2) deep "countermovement" jump with wide (CMJW) and 3) narrow foot position (CMJN). Subjects also performed an isometric knee-extension strength test, dichotomized to 'weak' versus 'strong' subjects according to median and quartiles. Results: There were greater knee valgus angles during landing for both the CMJW and CMJN test compared to the BJ test (p <= 0.05). Differences in knee valgus between weak and strong subjects were significant for the BJ test (p = 0.044) but not for any of the other tests. Conclusions: VDJ landing depth influences knee kinematics in women. Landing depth may therefore be considered when screening athletes using the VDJ test. Also, muscle strength seems to influence the amount of knee valgus angles, but the difference was not statistically significant (except for the BJ test) in this small cohort. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Augustsson, Sofia Ryman] Lund Univ, Dept Hlth Sci, Musculoskeletal Funct, Lund, Sweden; [Tranberg, Roy; Zugner, Roland] Univ Gothenburg, Sahlgrenska Acad, Dept Orthopaed, Inst Clin Sci, Gothenburg, Sweden; [Augustsson, Jesper] Linnaeus Univ, Fac Social Sci, Dept Sport Sci, Kalmar, Sweden; [Augustsson, Sofia Ryman] Lund Univ, Dept Hlth Sci, Musculoskeletal Funct, Lund, Sweden								5							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000445981100020	23	Article; Article		
J	Lipinski, Cassandra L.; Donovan, Luke; McLoughlin, Thomas J.; Armstrong, Charles W.; Norte, Grant E.								Surface electromyography of the forearm musculature during an overhead throwing rehabilitation progression program								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				33				109	116		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.07.006			SEP 2018	2018	Objective: The flexor carpi ulnaris (FCU) and flexor digitorum superficialis (FDS) provide dynamic stabilization to the medial elbow. It remains unclear how these muscles function during progressive throwing exercises. Our objective was to compare FCU and FDS surface electromyography (sEMG) during a throwing progression. Design: Crossover. Setting: Laboratory. Participants: Sixteen healthy males. Main outcome measures: Participants completed a plyometric throw (PLYO), long-toss 50% (LT50), long toss 75% (LT75), and pitch (PITCH). sEMG was synchronized with three-dimensional kinematics to assess the acceleration phase of each exercise. Peak sEMG amplitude (%MVIC) and percentage change between progressive exercises was measured. Continuous sEMG data were assessed to determine when peak activation occurred during acceleration. Results: FCU activity was greater during PITCH than LT50, and during LT75 than LT50. Percentage change was greater from LT50-to-LT75 than PLYO-to-LT50 for both muscles. PLYO and PITCH increased most during late acceleration, whereas LT50 and LT75 increased most during mid-acceleration. Conclusions: FCU activity did not increase in a stepwise manner, and FDS remained unchanged. Each muscle demonstrated a disproportionate increase in activation during the second exercise progression (LT50-to-LT75) compared to the first (PLY0-to-LT50), suggesting that additional exercises may be required to achieve a stepwise progression relative to forearm muscle activation. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Lipinski, Cassandra L.; Norte, Grant E.] Univ Toledo, Sch Exercise & Rehabil Sci, Athlet Training Program, 2801 W Bancroft St,HH 2505H,Mail Stop 119, Toledo, OH 43606 USA; [Donovan, Luke] Univ N Carolina, Dept Kinesiol, 9201 Univ City Blvd,229 Belk Gym, Charlotte, NC 28223 USA; [McLoughlin, Thomas J.; Armstrong, Charles W.] Univ Toledo, Sch Exercise & Rehabil Sci, Exercise Sci Program, 2801 W Bancroft St,HH 2512,Mail Stop 119, Toledo, OH 43606 USA; [Norte, Grant E.] Univ Toledo, Sch Exercise & Rehabil Sci, Athlet Training Program, 2801 W Bancroft St,HH 2505H,Mail Stop 119, Toledo, OH 43606 USA								9							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000445981100017	31	Article; Article		
J	Ferreira, Amanda Schenatto; Silva, Danilo de Oliveira; Del Priore, Liliam Barbuglio; Gomes Garcia, Carmen Lucia; Maiolini Ducatti, Matheus Henrique; Balotari Botta, Ana Flavia; Waiteman, Marina Cabral; de Azevedo, Fabio Micolis								Differences in pain and function between adolescent athletes and physically active non-athletes with patellofemoral pain								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				33				70	75		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.07.005			SEP 2018	2018	Objectives: To investigate pain level and function limitation in adolescent athletes and physically active non-athletes with PFP. Design: Cross-sectional study. Setting: Adolescent athletes were recruited at a sport center complex. Adolescent non-athletes were recruited from upper secondary schools. Participants: 108 adolescents diagnosed with PFP: 42 adolescent athletes and 66 adolescent non athletes. Main outcome measures: To evaluate the level of pain, a visual analog scale (VAS) was used and to evaluate the overall function, the Knee Outcome in Osteoarthritis Survey (KOOS) was used. Results: The adolescent athletes scored significantly higher in the VAS (Mean difference = 0.97 (95% Cl = 0.35; 1.60) p = 0.003) compared to adolescent non-athletes. Adolescent athletes scored lower in the KOOS - Symptoms, Pain, Knee-related quality of life and Sport and recreation dimensions - than the non athletes, however, the minimally clinically important difference was not achieved in Pain dimension. There was no significant difference in the Activities of daily living dimension of the KOOS. Conclusions: Adolescent athletes presented higher levels of pain and lower physical function status compared with physically active non-athletes. This provides an important insight to the management of PFP in adolescent athletes as worst functional status is linked with poor prognosis in patients with PFP. (C) 2018 Published by Elsevier Ltd.		[Ferreira, Amanda Schenatto; Silva, Danilo de Oliveira; Del Priore, Liliam Barbuglio; Gomes Garcia, Carmen Lucia; Maiolini Ducatti, Matheus Henrique; Balotari Botta, Ana Flavia; Waiteman, Marina Cabral; de Azevedo, Fabio Micolis] Sao Paulo State Univ UNESP, Sch Sci & Technol, Lab Biomech & Motor Control LABCOM, Presidente Prudente, SP, Brazil; [Silva, Danilo de Oliveira] La Trobe Univ, Sch Allied Hlth, La Trobe Sports & Exercise Med Res Ctr LASEM, Bundoora, Vic, Australia; [de Azevedo, Fabio Micolis] Rua Roberto Simonsen 305, Presidente Prudente, SP, Brazil								9							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000445981100012	47	Article; Article		
J	Olmo, Jesus; Aramberri, Mikel; Almaraz, Carlos; Nayler, Jack; Requena, Bernardo								Successful conservative treatment for a subtotal proximal avulsion of the rectus femoris in an elite soccer player								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				33				62	69		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.07.004			SEP 2018	2018			[Olmo, Jesus; Requena, Bernardo] Football Sci Inst, Granada, Spain; [Aramberri, Mikel] Alai Clin, Madrid, Spain; [Almaraz, Carlos] Real Madrid CF, Madrid, Spain; [Almaraz, Carlos] Rekovery Clin, Madrid, Spain; [Nayler, Jack] Celtic Football Club, Glasgow, Lanark, Scotland; [Olmo, Jesus] Gavilan 11, Madrid 28232, Spain								11							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000445981100011	26	Article; Article		
J	Hughes, Luke; Paton, Bruce; Haddad, Fares; Rosenblatt, Benjamin; Gissane, Conor; Patterson, Stephen David								Comparison of the acute perceptual and blood pressure response to heavy load and light load blood flow restriction resistance exercise in anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction patients and non-injured populations								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				33				54	61		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.07.002			SEP 2018	2018	Objectives: To compare the acute perceptual and blood pressure responses to: 1) light load blood flow restriction resistance exercise (BFR-RE) in non-injured individuals and anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction (ACLR) patients; and 2) light load BFR-RE and heavy load RE (HL-RE) in ACLR patients. Design: Between-subjects, partially-randomised. Methods: This study comprised 3 groups: non-injured BFR-RE (NI-BFR); ACLR patients BFR-RE (ACLR-BFR); ACLR patients HL-RE (ACLR-HL). NI-BFR and ACLR-BFR performed 4 sets (30, 15, 15, 15 reps, total = 75 reps, 30s inter-set rest) of unilateral leg press exercise at 30% 1RM with continuous BFR at 80% limb occlusive pressure. ACLR-HL performed 3 x 10 reps (Total = 30 reps, 30s inter-set rest) of unilateral leg press exercise at 70% 1RM. Perceived exertion (RPE), muscle pain, knee pain and pre- and 5-mM post-exercise blood pressure were measured. Results: RPE was higher in ACLR-BFR compared to NI-BFR (p < 0.05). Muscle pain was higher in NI-BFR and ACLR-BFR compared to ACLR-HL (p <0.05). Knee pain was lower in ACLR-BFR compared to ACLR-HL (p < 0.01). There were no differences in blood pressure. Conclusion: These responses to BFR exercise may not limit application and favourably influence knee pain throughout ACLR rehabilitation training programmes. These findings can help inform practitioners' decisions to utilise this tool. Crown Copyright (C) 2018 Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Hughes, Luke; Gissane, Conor; Patterson, Stephen David] St Marys Univ, Sch Sport Hlth & Appl Sci, London TW1 4SX, England; [Hughes, Luke; Paton, Bruce; Haddad, Fares] Inst Sport Exercise & Hlth, 170 Tottenham Court Rd, London, England; [Rosenblatt, Benjamin] Football Assoc, St Georges Pk, Burton Upon Trent, England; [Hughes, Luke] St Marys Univ, Sch Sport Hlth & Appl Sci, London TW1 4SX, England								40							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000445981100010	87	Article; Article		
J	dos Santos, Keyla Mara; Da Roza, Thuane; da Silva, Lislayne Luiza; Wolpe, Raquel Eleine; da Silva Honorio, Gesilani Julia; Tonon da Luz, Soraia Cristina								Female sexual function and urinary incontinence in nulliparous athletes: An exploratory study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				33				21	26		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.06.004			SEP 2018	2018	Objectives: To estimate the prevalence of Female Sexual Dysfunction (FSD) and Urinary Incontinence (UI) symptom in nulliparous athletes and analyze the risk factors for these dysfunctions. Design: A cross-sectional study. Setting: The International Consultation on Incontinence Questionnaire-Short Form (ICIQ-UI-SF) and the Female Sexual Function Index (FSFI) were applied to assess the UI and the FSD. Participants: 50 athletes with >= 18 years old. Results: We found a prevalence of 48% of UI and 44% of FSD among nulliparous athletes. The rate of athletes having concomitant FSD and UI was 24%. We found a significant difference between high and low impact sports in the ICIQ-UI-SF score (p = 0.028). Hours of training (p = 0.007; R-2 = 0.21) was found to be a risk factor for UI. Incontinent athletes demonstrated a Relative Risk of 2.7 to develop sexual desire problem when compared to the continents (p = 0.04; 95% Cls: 1.50-4.89). Conclusions: This study found a high prevalence of both UI and FSD among nulliparous athletes. Furthermore, nulliparous athletes practicing high-impact modalities are the most susceptible to UI. The hours of training per day was considered a risk factor to develop UI, and incontinent athletes have more chances of showing difficulties in sexual desire. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[dos Santos, Keyla Mara; Da Roza, Thuane; da Silva, Lislayne Luiza; da Silva Honorio, Gesilani Julia; Tonon da Luz, Soraia Cristina] State Univ Santa Catarina UDESC, Ctr Hlth & Sports Sci CEFID, Lab Biomech, Florianopolis, SC, Brazil; [Wolpe, Raquel Eleine] State Univ Santa Catarina UDESC, Ctr Hlth & Sports Sci CEFID, Lab Womens Hlth, Florianopolis, SC, Brazil; [dos Santos, Keyla Mara] Lab Biomech, Pascoal Simone 358, BR-88080350 Florianopolis, SC, Brazil								28							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000445981100005	31	Article; Article		
J	Paris-Alemany, Alba; Torres-Palomino, Alba; Marino, Lilya; Calvo-Lobo, Cesar; Gadea-Mateos, Luis; La Touche, Roy								Comparison of lumbopelvic and dynamic stability between dancers and non-dancers								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				33				33	39		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.06.010			SEP 2018	2018	Objective: To compare lumbopelvic stability between dancers and non-dancers by assessing lumbopelvic motor control, abdominal muscles automatic-activation, lumbar range of motion and dynamic stability. Design: Cross-sectional. Setting: University/superior-dance-conservatory. Participants: Twenty-two dancers and 22 non-dancers. Main outcome measurements: The active straight leg raise test (ASLR) was used to test lumbopelvic motor control with pressure feedback (mmHg). Transversus, rectus anterior and internal oblique muscles thicknesses were measured at rest and ASLR. For dynamic stability, the modified Star Excursion Balance Test (mSEBT) was employed. Results: Significant differences were revealed in lumbopelvic motor control between groups (p < 0.001). Abdominal muscles automatic-activation showed no differences between the groups. There were significant differences in the mSEBT for most of the test's directions, with dancers performing better than the non-dancers (p < 0.05). For the dancers, there were positive associations between motor control and dynamic stability, and between abdominal muscle thickness and mSEBT. For non-dancers, the rectus anterior activation correlated with the mSEBT. Conclusions: The dancers had better lumbopelvic motor control, dynamic stability and lumbar movements except in terms of extension, as compared with non-dancers. Therefore, this novel study could stimulate a new line of research to determine the influence of these outcomes on sports performance, prevention and injury rehabilitation. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Paris-Alemany, Alba; Torres-Palomino, Alba; Marino, Lilya; La Touche, Roy] Univ Autonoma Madrid, Ctr Super Estudios Univ La Salle, Dept Fisioterapia, Madrid, Spain; [Paris-Alemany, Alba; La Touche, Roy] Univ Autonoma Madrid, Ctr Super Estudios Univ La Salle, Mot Brains Res Grp, Inst Neurosci & Sci Movement INCIMOV, Madrid, Spain; [Paris-Alemany, Alba; La Touche, Roy] Inst Neurosci & Craniofacial Pain INDCRAN, Madrid, Spain; [Paris-Alemany, Alba; La Touche, Roy] Hosp La Paz, Inst Hlth Res, IdiPAZ, Madrid, Spain; [Calvo-Lobo, Cesar] Univ Leon, Inst Biomed IBIOMED, Nursing & Phys Therapy Dept, Leon, Spain; [Gadea-Mateos, Luis] Conservatorio Super Danza Maria de Avila, Madrid, Spain; [Paris-Alemany, Alba] Univ Rey Juan Carlos, Escuela Int Doctorado, Fac Hlth Sci, Madrid, Spain; [Paris-Alemany, Alba] Univ Autonoma Madrid, Ctr Super Estudios Univ La Salle, Dept Fisioterapia, INCIMOV, Calle Salle 10, Madrid 28023, Aravaca, Spain								13							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000445981100007	44	Article; Article		
J	Archbold, H. A. P.; Rankin, A. T.; Webb, M.; Nicholas, R.; Eames, N. W. A.; Wilson, R. K.; Henderson, L. A.; Heyes, G. J.; Davies, R.; Bleakley, C. M.								Recurrent injury patterns in adolescent rugby								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				33				12	17		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.06.005			SEP 2018	2018	Objectives: To establish patterns of subsequent injury in U18 rugby, to quantify the burden of within season injury recurrence. Design: Secondary analysis of prospective data. Setting: 28 Schools in Ireland. Participants: 825 male rugby players (aged 15-18 years). Main outcome measures: Subsequent injuries were classified as: new, local or recurrent (same site and type as index injury). All recurrent injuries were sub-grouped by body part and diagnosis. Burden was based on frequency, days lost and injury proportion ratios. Results: A total of 426 injuries were eligible for analysis, of which, 121 were subsequent injuries. The majority of subsequent injuries involved a different body part than their index injury. There were n = 23 cases of within season recurrence. 78% of recurrences occurred within 2 months of return to play. Recurrent injuries comprised 5% of all injuries and their cumulative time loss was 1073 days. Recurrent injury to the ankle ligaments, lumbar muscles and concussions carried the greatest burden. Conclusion: The burden of recurrent injury in U18 rugby is lower than in the professional game. However, this population could benefit from targeted secondary prevention efforts including reconsideration of return-to-play protocols for ankle sprain, lumbar muscles and potentially concussion. (C) 2018 Published by Elsevier Ltd.		[Archbold, H. A. P.; Nicholas, R.; Eames, N. W. A.; Henderson, L. A.; Heyes, G. J.] Royal Victoria Hosp, Belfast, Antrim, North Ireland; [Rankin, A. T.] Sport Northern Ireland, Sports Inst, Belfast, Antrim, North Ireland; [Webb, M.] Ulster Rugby, Belfast, Antrim, North Ireland; [Wilson, R. K.] Musgrave Pk Hosp, Belfast, Antrim, North Ireland; [Davies, R.] Ulster Univ, Coleraine, Londonderry, North Ireland; [Bleakley, C. M.] High Point Univ, High Point, NC USA; [Bleakley, C. M.] High Point Univ, Congdon Sch Hlth Sci, Dept Phys Therapy, 1 Univ Pkwy, High Point, NC 27262 USA								14							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000445981100003	26	Article; Article		
J	Silva, Danilo de Oliveira; Pazzinatto, Marcella Ferraz; Del Priore, Liliam Barbuglio; Ferreira, Amanda Schenatto; Briani, Ronaldo Valdir; Ferrari, Deisi; Bazett-Jones, David; de Azevedo, Fabio Micolis								Knee crepitus is prevalent in women with patellofemoral pain, but is not related with function, physical activity and pain								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				33				7	11		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.06.002			SEP 2018	2018	Objectives: (i) To assess the reliability of knee crepitus measures, (ii) to investigate the association between knee crepitus and PFP; (iii) to investigate the relationship between knee crepitus with self reported function, physical activity and pain. Design: Cross-sectional. Setting: Laboratory-based study. Participants: 165 women with PFP and 158 pain-free women. Main outcome measures: Knee crepitus test, anterior knee pain scale (AKPS) and self-reported worst knee pain in the last month, knee pain after 10 squats and knee pain after 10 stairs climbing. Results: Knee crepitus clinical test presented high reliability Kappa value for PFP group was 0.860 and for pain-free group was 0.906. There is a significantly greater proportion of those with crepitus in the PFP group than in the pain-free group (OR =4.19). Knee crepitus had no relationship with function (rpb = 0.03; p = 0.727), physical activity level (rpb = 0.010; p = 0.193), worst pain (rpb = 0.11; p = 0.141), pain climbing stairs (rpb = 0.10; p = 0.194) and pain squatting (rpb = 0.02; p = 0.802). Conclusion: Women who presents knee crepitus have 4 times greater odds to be in a group with PFP compared to those who do not. However, knee crepitus has no relationship with self-reported clinical outcomes of women with PFP. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Silva, Danilo de Oliveira; Pazzinatto, Marcella Ferraz; Del Priore, Liliam Barbuglio; Ferreira, Amanda Schenatto; Briani, Ronaldo Valdir; Ferrari, Deisi; de Azevedo, Fabio Micolis] Sao Paulo State Univ UNESP, Sch Sci & Technol, Lab Biomech & Motor Control, Presidente Prudente, Brazil; [Silva, Danilo de Oliveira; Pazzinatto, Marcella Ferraz] La Trobe Univ, Sch Allied Hlth, La Trobe Sports & Exercise Med Res Ctr, Bundoora, Vic, Australia; [Bazett-Jones, David] Univ Toledo, Sch Exercise & Rehabil Sci, Coll Hlth & Human Serv, Dept Athlet Training, 2801 W Bancroft St, Toledo, OH 43606 USA; [Silva, Danilo de Oliveira] La Trobe Univ, Kingsbury Dr, Bundoora, Vic 3086, Australia								24							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000445981100002	29	Article; Article		
J	Wilczynski, Jacek								Postural Stability in Goalkeepers of the Polish National Junior Handball Team								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				63	1			161	170		10.2478/hukin-2018-0016			AUG 2018	2018	The aim of the study was to assess postural stability of goalkeepers from the Polish national junior handball team. Eleven juniors of the Polish national handball team (age 16.82 +/- 1.6 years, body height 191.27 +/- 3.1 cm, body mass 88.41 +/- 12.26 kg, BMI 24.18 +/- 3.22 kg/m2) were selected for the study. The Biodex Balance System and AccuGait AM inverted left perpendicular TI platform were used to evaluate postural stability. The obtained results indicated good postural stability of the subjects. During the Biodex Balance System platform tests, all subjects presented very good postural stability and maintained within Zone A. Postural sway was greater in the sagittal plane compared to the frontal one. Most of the participants demonstrated slight backward tilts, but maintained in Quadrant IV. During the AccuGait AMTI platform trial, Path Length and Average COP Speed significantly increased in the test performed with closed eyes. Furthermore, there were significant positive correlations between the number of variables obtained during the Biodex Balance System and AccuGait AMTI tests. Proper and stable posture are necessary conditions to be met to carry out most free movements and locomotion. They play a significant role in the game of a handball goalkeeper and for that reason, postural stability testing of handball goalkeepers is an important element of coordination training. Thus, the use of postural stability exercises implementing the biofeedback method on stabilo and dynamometric platforms is practical and justifiable.		[Wilczynski, Jacek] Kochanowski Univ Kielce, Dept Posturol Hearing & Balance Rehabil, Fac Med & Hlth Sci, Kielce, Poland; [Wilczynski, Jacek] Kochanowski Univ, Posturol Dept, Hearing & Balance Rehabil, Fac Med & Hlth Sci, Al 9 Wiekow Kielc 19, PL-25317 Kielce, Poland								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:000445547400016	30	Article; Article		
J	Hartz, Charlini S.; Sindorf, Marcio A. G.; Lopes, Charles R.; Batista, Jose; Moreno, Marlene A.								Effect of Inspiratory Muscle Training on Performance of Handball Athletes								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				63	1			43	51		10.2478/hukin-2018-0005			AUG 2018	2018	Inspiratory muscle training (IMT) is a strategy that has been used to improve performance in different sports modalities. This study investigated the effects of an IMT program on respiratory muscle strength and resistance as well as aerobic physical performance (PP) of handball athletes. Nineteen 20 +/- 3 year-old male athletes were allocated into an experimental (EG, n = 10) or a placebo group (PG, n = 9). Their respiratory muscle strength was evaluated by measuring the maximum inspiratory and expiratory pressures (MIP and MEP), muscular respiratory resistance by maximum voluntary ventilation (MVV) and aerobic PP by the cardiopulmonary exercise test. The study was designed to evaluate the effects of a 12-week IMT program with five sessions a week. A significant difference was observed in the pre and post IMT values of the MIP (170 +/- 34 to 262 +/- 33 cmH2O) and MEP (177 +/- 36 to 218 +/- 37 cmH2O) in the EG, and MIP (173 +/- 45 to 213 +/- 21 cmH2O) in the PG, with a large effect size for the MIP, when the groups were compared. MVV showed a significant increase (162 +/- 24 to 173 +/- 30 L) in the EG, with a small effect size. There was a significant difference in maximum oxygen uptake (54 +/- 8 to 60 +/- 7 ml/kg/min) in aerobic PP. Oxygen uptake at the respiratory compensation point (RCP) (46 +/- 6 to 50 +/- 5 ml/kg/min), with a moderate effect size for both variables, was observed in the EG after IMT. We concluded that IMT provided a significant increase in respiratory muscle strength and resistance, contributing to increased aerobic PP in the EG, which suggests that IMT could be incorporated in handball players' training.		[Hartz, Charlini S.; Sindorf, Marcio A. G.; Lopes, Charles R.; Batista, Jose; Moreno, Marlene A.] Methodist Univ Piracicaba UNIMEP, Postgrad Program Human Movement Sci, Piracicaba, SP, Brazil; [Lopes, Charles R.] Adventist Coll Hortolandia, Hortolandia, SP, Brazil; [Moreno, Marlene A.] Univ Metodista Piracicaba, Rodovia Acucar,Km 156,SP-308, BR-13423170 Piracicaba, SP, Brazil								33							Sport Sciences	WOS:000445547400005	30	Article; Article		
J	Mazurek, Krzysztof; Zmijewski, Piotr; Makaruk, Hubert; Mroz, Anna; Czajkowska, Anna; Witek, Katarzyna; Bodasinski, Slawomir; Lipinska, Patrycja								Effects of Short-Term Plyometric Training on Physical Performance in Male Handball Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				63	1			137	148		10.2478/hukin-2018-0014			AUG 2018	2018	The aim of this study was to compare the effects of plyometric and jump training on physical performance in young male handball players. Twenty-six young male handball players were divided into two sub-groups to perform a five-week pre-season training programme supplemented with two ground-reactive protocols with an equal number of jumping exercises referred as to ground contacts: plyometric training (PLY; n = 14) and standard jump training (CON; n = 12). Before and after training, repeated sprint ability (RSA), jumping ability (JA), maximal oxygen uptake (VO2max) and aerobic power at the anaerobic threshold (PAT) were measured. A two factor analysis revealed significant time effects with improvements in fat mass (p = 0.012), maximal power during the incremental cycling test (p = 0.001) and PAT (p < 0.001), power decline (PDEC) and maximal power (Pmax) in the 5th repetition (p < 0.05 and p < 0.01, respectively). The training-induced changes in absolute and relative peak power in the RSA test and absolute VO2max approached significance (p = 0.06, p = 0.053 and p = 0.06). No intervention time x exercise protocol effects were observed for any indices of JA, RSA and aerobic capacity. A five-week pre-season conditioning programme supplemented with only 15 sessions of plyometric exercise did not induce any additional benefits, compared to a matched format of standard jump training, in terms of improving jumping performance and maximal power in the RSA test. Aerobic capacity and the fatigue index in RSA were maintained under these two training conditions.		[Mazurek, Krzysztof; Mroz, Anna; Witek, Katarzyna] Jozef Pilsudski Univ Phys Educ Warsaw, Dept Phys Educ, Warsaw, Poland; [Zmijewski, Piotr] Natl Res Inst, Inst Sport, Tryl 2-16, PL-01982 Warsaw, Poland; [Zmijewski, Piotr] Legia Warszawa SA, Res & Dev Ctr Legia Lab, Warsaw, Poland; [Makaruk, Hubert; Bodasinski, Slawomir] Jozef Pilsudski Univ Phys Educ Warsaw, Fac Biala Podlaska, Biala Podlaska, Poland; [Czajkowska, Anna] Jozef Pilsudski Univ Phys Educ Warsaw, Dept Tourism & Recreat, Warsaw, Poland; [Lipinska, Patrycja] Kazimierz Wielki Univ Bydgoszcz, Inst Phys Culture, Bydgoszcz, Poland; [Zmijewski, Piotr] Natl Res Inst, Inst Sport, Tryl 2-16, PL-01982 Warsaw, Poland								24							Sport Sciences	WOS:000445547400014	37	Article; Article		
J	Gorski, Michal; Starczewski, Michal; Pastuszak, Anna; Mazur-Rozycka, Joanna; Gajewski, Jan; Busko, Krzysztof								Changes of strength and maximum power of lower extremities in adolescent handball players during a two-year training cycle								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				63	1			95	103		10.2478/hukin-2018-0010			AUG 2018	2018	The aim of the study was to investigate changes of strength and power of the lower extremities in adolescent handball players during a two-year training cycle. Thirty-one male handball players (age 16.0 +/- 0.2 years, body mass 81.4 +/- 9.7 kg, body height 188.2 +/- 6.4 cm) took part in this study. All tests were conducted three times at the beginning of a one-year training programme. The maximum joint torque (JT) of flexors and extensors of the elbow, shoulder, hip, knee and trunk was measured under static conditions. Power of lower extremities was assessed with a repeated sprint ability (RSA) test on a cycloergometer and jump tests: akimbo counter-movement jump (ACMJ), counter-movement jump (CMJ) and spike jump tests on a force plate. Peak power (PP) increased from 914.8 +/- 93.9 to 970.0 +/- 89.2 and 1037.8 +/- 114.4 W (p < 0.05) following the RSA test results. Maximum power increased significantly (p < 0.05) in ACMJ (1951.9 +/- 359.7 to 2141.9 +/- 378.5 and 2268.5 +/- 395.9 W) and CMJ tests (2646.3 +/- 415.6 to 2831.2 +/- 510.8 and 3064.6 +/- 444.5 W). Although significant differences in JT (p < 0.05) were observed during the two year period, their values related to body mass for the lower right extremity, sum of the trunk and sum of all muscle groups increased significantly between the first and the second measurement (from 13.7 +/- 1.8 to 14.58 +/- 1.99 N.m.kg(-1), from 9.3 +/- 1.5 to 10.39 +/- 2.16 N.m.kg(-1), from 43.4 +/- 5.2 to 46.31 +/- 6.83 N.m.kg(-1), respectively). The main finding of the study is that PP in the RSA test and maximal power in the ACMJ and CMJ increase in relation to training experience and age in the group of youth handball players.		[Gorski, Michal; Pastuszak, Anna] Inst Sport, Natl Res Inst, Dept Biomech, Warsaw, Poland; [Starczewski, Michal] Inst Sport, Natl Res Inst, Dept Physiol, Warsaw, Poland; [Mazur-Rozycka, Joanna] Cent Inst Labour Protect, Natl Res Inst CIOP PIB, Dept Ergon, Warsaw, Poland; [Gajewski, Jan] Jozef Pilsudski Univ Phys Educ, Dept Stat & Informat Technol, Warsaw, Poland; [Busko, Krzysztof] Kazimierz Wielki Univ, Dept Anat & Biomech, Sportowa 2, PL-85091 Bydgoszcz, Poland; [Busko, Krzysztof] Kazimierz Wielki Univ, Dept Anat & Biomech, Sportowa 2, PL-85091 Bydgoszcz, Poland								12							Sport Sciences	WOS:000445547400010	29	Article; Article		
J	Karnincic, Hrvoje; Cavala, Marijana; Rogulj, Nenad								The Relationship Between Handball Players and Alcohol and Smoking Habits								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				63	1			127	136		10.2478/hukin-2018-0013			AUG 2018	2018	Recent studies have revealed that sport activity is a protective factor regarding smoking, but a risk factor for alcohol abuse. Considering these findings, it is necessary to investigate the occurrence of substance misuse. Sports that are associated with a substantial amount of physical/mental stress are very interesting from the perspective of substance misuse (e.g., handball). This research was performed to more closely study the population engaged in handball regarding the risk for alcohol and/or tobacco consumption. The sample of respondents consisted of 150 senior handball players who were members of 9 first-league handball clubs from Croatia and abroad. The respondents were grouped into sub-samples according to sex, age, experience, the number of weekly training sessions and their social environment (clubs). Alcohol consumption data were obtained using the AUDIT questionnaire. The differences between groups were tested using the Kruskal-Wallis and Mann-Whitney U tests. The study revealed that handball players engaged in alcohol misuse, and they were grouped in the harmful drinking category (AUDIT score, 16-19 for all groups). Regarding tobacco product consumption, the risk groups were women (who smoked significantly more than men, MWU test: Z = 3.30. p < 0.001), handball players with less experience (who smoked significantly more than experienced players, MWU test: Z = 3.68, p < 0.001). Borderline significance was observed for the impact made by social environments, and age was not a significant predictor of tobacco consumption. Regarding alcohol consumption, the highest hazard group were national handball players, who drank much more than foreign players did (MWU test: Z = 2.04, p = 0.04); however, sex, age, experience and training habits were not alcohol consumption predictors in handball. This study reveal that the typical behaviors regarding alcohol and tobacco consumption followed by the general population do not apply to handball players. Targeted prevention can be much more precisely established considering this research.		[Karnincic, Hrvoje; Cavala, Marijana; Rogulj, Nenad] Univ Split, Fac Kinesiol, Teslina 6, Split 21000, Croatia; [Karnincic, Hrvoje] Univ Split, Fac Kinesiol, Teslina 6, Split 21000, Croatia								8							Sport Sciences	WOS:000445547400013	52	Article; Article		
J	Wing, Chris								Monitoring Athlete Load: Data Collection Methods and Practical Recommendations								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				40	4			26	39		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000384			AUG 2018	2018	Collecting data about athlete load enables support staff to make appropriate changes to an athlete or team's training dose through this careful manipulation, athlete injury and illness occurrence can be reduced. Furthermore, athletes can be safely returned to play after injury. There are several data collection methods available which include: rating of perceived exertion, global positioning systems, wellness questionnaires, and heart rate measures. Which ones to adopt and how to implement them within practice can depend on several factors. Ultimately, the way in which the data are used to inform practice is the key to effective load management.		[Wing, Chris] South Fremantle FC Perth, Perth, WA, Australia; [Wing, Chris] South Fremantle FC Perth, Perth, WA, Australia								26							Sport Sciences	WOS:000440257600004	73	Article; Article		
J	Hartley, David R.; McMahon, John J.								The Role of Strength Training for Lower Extremity Tendinopathy								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				40	4			85	95		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000376			AUG 2018	2018	Tendon injuries represent a common problem for athletes and the general population. symptoms can result in prolonged impairment of performance. This review aimed to examine the current research underpinning commonly used strength training methods to manage lower limb tendinopathy and suggest appropriate ways in which these methods can be applied by strength and conditioning professionals. Eccentric training and traditional resistance training are often used to increase a tendon's tolerance to load, and isometric training is emerging as an effective method to achieve similar outcomes. These training modalities should be considered when managing tendinopathy.		[Hartley, David R.] Univ Salford, Directorate Sport Exercise & Physiotherapy, Salford, Greater Manches, England; [McMahon, John J.] Univ Salford, Directorate Sport Exercise & Physiotherapy, Sports Biomech & Strength & Conditioning, Salford, Greater Manches, England; [Hartley, David R.] Middlesbrough Football Club, Middlesbrough, Cleveland, England; [Hartley, David R.] Univ Salford, Directorate Sport Exercise & Physiotherapy, Salford, Greater Manches, England; [Hartley, David R.] Middlesbrough Football Club, Middlesbrough, Cleveland, England								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:000440257600009	82	Article; Article		
J	Kaplan, Kelby; Hanney, William J.; Cheatham, Scott W.; Masaracchio, Michael; Liu, Xinliang; Kolber, Morey J.								Rotator Cuff Tendinopathy: An Evidence-Based Overview for the Sports Medicine Professional								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				40	4			61	71		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000364			AUG 2018	2018	Rotator cuff tendinopathy is a prevalent condition among both the general and athletic populations, with many of these individuals seeking conservative care at some point. The understanding of tendinopathies has changed dramatically over the past decade, as have management options. This article provides an overview of current trends in the understanding of rotator cuff tendinopathy including the underlying pathophysiology, risk factors, as well as the evidence underscoring pharmacological and exercise-based interventions.		[Kaplan, Kelby; Kolber, Morey J.] Nova Southeastern Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Lauderdale, FL 33314 USA; [Hanney, William J.] Univ Cent Florida, Dept Hlth Profess, Orlando, FL 32816 USA; [Cheatham, Scott W.] Calif State Univ Dominguez Hills, Div Kinesiol, Carson, CA 90747 USA; [Masaracchio, Michael] Long Isl Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Long Isl City, NY USA; [Liu, Xinliang] Univ Cent Florida, Dept Hlth Management & Informat, Orlando, FL 32816 USA; [Kaplan, Kelby] Nova Southeastern Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Lauderdale, FL 33314 USA								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:000440257600007	67	Article; Article		
J	Bishop, Chris; Read, Paul; Lake, Jason; Chavda, Shyam; Turner, Anthony								Interlimb Asymmetries: Understanding How to Calculate Differences From Bilateral and Unilateral Tests								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				40	4			1	6		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000371			AUG 2018	2018	Interlimb asymmetries have been a popular topic of investigation in the strength and conditioning literature recently, numerous equations have been highlighted that can quantify these between-limb differences. However, no distinction was provided on whether their use was applicable to both bilateral and unilateral tests. This article provides a framework for selecting the most appropriate asymmetry equation based on the selected test method, ensuring accurate calculation and interpretation. In addition, considerations for data analysis have also been included as a guide for practitioners on the relevance of monitoring interlimb differences longitudinally.		[Bishop, Chris; Chavda, Shyam; Turner, Anthony] Middlesex Univ, London Sport Inst, Sch Sci & Technol, London, England; [Read, Paul] Aspetar Orthopaed & Sports Med Hosp, Athlete Hlth & Performance Res Ctr, Doha, Qatar; [Lake, Jason] Univ Chichester, Dept Sport & Exercise Sci, Chichester, W Sussex, England; [Bishop, Chris] Middlesex Univ, London Sport Inst, Sch Sci & Technol, London, England								231							Sport Sciences	WOS:000440257600001	31	Article; Article		
J	LaPlaca, David A.; McCullick, Bryan A.								Improving Physical Performance Through Instructional Models								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				40	4			40	47		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000382			AUG 2018	2018	Proper instruction involves the teaching of both the "how" and "why" a skill should be performed. When properly implemented, evidence clearly indicates that it improves an athlete's physical performance using instructional models, strength and conditioning coaches can incorporate proper instruction into their training programs. The 2-fold purpose of this article is to provide the reader: (a) a justification of how the use of pedagogical principles can lead to improved physical performance by an athlete, and (b) practical applications for incorporating proper instructional models through a holistic strength and conditioning program.		[LaPlaca, David A.] Villanova Univ, Athlet Dept, Villanova, PA 19085 USA; [McCullick, Bryan A.] Univ Georgia, Dept Kinesiol, Athens, GA 30602 USA; [LaPlaca, David A.] Villanova Univ, Athlet Dept, Villanova, PA 19085 USA								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:000440257600005	30	Article; Article		
J	Bjorndal, Christian T.; Andersen, Svein S.; Ronglan, Lars T.								Successful and unsuccessful transitions to the elite level: The youth national team pathways in Norwegian handball								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	4			533	544		10.1177/1747954117740014			AUG 2018	2018	The aim of this study was to explore successful and unsuccessful transitions in Norwegian handball from the youth player level to the adult elite level. The nine youth players in our strategic sample were interviewed in-depth about their experiences. Five of the nine athletes had established themselves successfully at the adult elite level; four had either quit or continued to play at a lower level during the previous season. The data were first inductively analysed before the theoretical analysis was conducted. This enabled us to develop a comprehensive understanding of each athlete's developmental path and transitions and enabled a comparison between the different outcomes. The lifespan model was used a basis for understanding the individual pathways of development and the transitions made. The ecology of games framework was used to contextualise the individual processes within the particular organisational context of Norwegian handball. The results show how the application of the talent development model used in Norwegian handball is frequently experienced as one which is exhausting for athletes. For a significant number, it may lead to injuries or burnout. Further, our findings demonstrate that there is a thin line separating two different outcomes: (a) a dropout due to a loss of motivation and meaning and (b) a successful transition to the elite level. We discuss how the organisational context of Norwegian handball leads to unintended consequences, both positive and negative, for athletes. Incidents and decisions beyond an athlete's immediate environment can facilitate or inhibit successful transitions to the elite level.		[Bjorndal, Christian T.; Andersen, Svein S.; Ronglan, Lars T.] Norwegian Sch Sport Sci, Dept Coaching & Psychol, Sognsveien 220, N-0863 Oslo, Norway; [Andersen, Svein S.] Norwegian Business Sch, Dept Leadership & Org Behav, Oslo, Norway; [Bjorndal, Christian T.] Norwegian Sch Sport Sci, Dept Coaching & Psychol, Sognsveien 220, N-0863 Oslo, Norway								31							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000439955000007	29	Article; Article		
J	Teramoto, Masaru; Cross, Chad L.								Importance of team height to winning games in the National Basketball Association								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	4			559	568		10.1177/1747954117730953			AUG 2018	2018	A recent trend in the National Basketball Association, so-called "small-ball", questions the importance of height in basketball. The present study examined the association of team height, defined as an average height of players weighted by playing time, to team performance in the 2006-2007 through 2015-2016 National Basketball Association seasons. Relationships of team height to winning games, to offensive and defensive ratings, and to four factors were assessed using Pearson's correlation coefficients. A generalized estimating equation was used to examine the association of team height to winning games, separately for the Eastern and Western Conferences, while using performance variables above as covariates. Team height had significant positive correlations with offensive and defensive rebounds, and had a significant inverse relationship with the opponent's turnovers (p<0.05). After adjusting for the team performance variables, team height was found to be an insignificant predictor of winning games in the regular seasons (p>0.05). In the playoffs, the interaction between team height and offensive rating was significant (p<0.05). A follow-up analysis revealed that teams in the Eastern Conference had higher winning percentages with smaller lineups, whereas those in the Western Conference performed better with bigger lineups. A significant interaction was also found between team height and effective field goal percentage or free throw rate in the Eastern Conference playoffs (p<0.05). Specifically, bigger lineups were associated with higher winning percentages for teams with lower effective field goal percentages and higher free throw rates. These results may suggest that team height is important in winning games in the playoffs.		[Teramoto, Masaru] Univ Utah, Div Phys Med & Rehabil, Salt Lake City, UT USA; [Cross, Chad L.] Univ Nevada, Sch Med, Dept Radiat Oncol, Las Vegas, NV 89154 USA; [Cross, Chad L.] Univ Nevada, Sch Community Hlth Sci, Dept Environm & Occupat Hlth, Las Vegas, NV 89154 USA; [Teramoto, Masaru] Univ Utah, Sch Med, Div Phys Med & Rehabil, 590 Wakara Way, Salt Lake City, UT 84108 USA								21							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000439955000010	20	Article; Article		
J	Makaruk, Hubert; Porter, Jared Marak; Starzak, Marcin								Environmental and task constraints influence footfall variability in track and field jumping events								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	4			552	558		10.1177/1747954117733888			AUG 2018	2018	By analysis of footfall variability in the long jump, triple jump, and pole vault, the present study was designed to highlight gait variability patterns required in varied nested tasks. Twelve male athletes in each event who participated in one international and two national competitions were involved in this study. Twenty five pairs of 1-m Optojump Next system bars were used to evaluate relevant footfall placement. The footfall variability was taken to present the pattern of step regulation and onset of visual regulation. The main results of this study showed that pole vaulters manifested a highly consistent gait pattern, which was different than the pattern which appeared in the horizontal jumps. The results also revealed that the onset of step length adjustments in the horizontal jumps occurred significantly later during the zeroing-in phase of the approach run in comparison to those utilized by the pole vaulters. These findings indicate that locomotor pointing control in the long jump, triple jump, and pole vault produce specific footfall variability patterns due to different task and environmental constraints that need to be taken into account during training and competition settings.		[Makaruk, Hubert; Starzak, Marcin] Josef Pilsudski Univ Phys Educ Warsaw, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Dept Theory & Technol Sports Training, Biala Podlaska, Poland; [Porter, Jared Marak] Southern Illinois Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Carbondale, IL 62901 USA; [Makaruk, Hubert] Josef Pilsudski Univ Phys Educ Warsaw, Dept Theory & Technol Sports Training, 2 Akad St, PL-21500 Biala Podlaska, Poland								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000439955000009	21	Article; Article		
J	Hinojosa-Alcalde, Ingrid; Andres, Ana; Serra, Pedrona; Vilanova, Anna; Soler, Susanna; Norman, Leanne								Understanding the gendered coaching workforce in Spanish sport								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	4			485	495		10.1177/1747954117747744			AUG 2018	2018	The present study focuses on the demographic and labor characteristics of coaches in Spain. Kanter's theory on occupational sex segregation will be used as a guiding framework. The study was conducted with 1685 coaches (82.3% men and 17.7% women) from different sports and performance domains. The results show that there is an underrepresentation of women as coaches in Spain and data highlight that coaches' gender is related to three structural factors: opportunity, power, and proportion. The present data reveal that women are younger, less likely to be in a marriage-like relationship, less likely to have children, and more likely to have competed at a high level as an athlete when compared to their male counterparts. However, fewer women than men access and participate in coach education in Catalonia and the working status of women was different to that of men. To expand, women worked less hours, were more likely to be assistant coaches, and had less years of coaching experience. Understanding of how gender influences women's access, progression, and retention in coaching in Spain illustrates the need for gender sport policies and practices in sport organizations. This approach can benefit not only women, but the diversity and enrichment of the coaching system.		[Hinojosa-Alcalde, Ingrid; Andres, Ana; Serra, Pedrona; Vilanova, Anna; Soler, Susanna] Univ Barcelona, INEFC, Avinguda Estadi 12-22, Barcelona 08038, Spain; [Norman, Leanne] Leeds Beckett Univ, Carnegie Res Inst, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England; [Andres, Ana] Ramon Llull Univ, Blanquerna Fac Psychol Educ & Sport Sci, Barcelona, Spain; [Soler, Susanna] Univ Barcelona, INEFC, Avinguda Estadi 12-22, Barcelona 08038, Spain								20							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000439955000003	47	Article; Article		
J	Langer, Viktoria C. E.; Maennig, Wolfgang; Richter, Felix								The Olympic Games as a News Shock: Macroeconomic Implications								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				19	6			884	906		10.1177/1527002517690788			AUG 2018	2018	The awarding of the Olympic Games to a certain city or the announcement of a city's Olympic bid may be considered as a news shock that affects agents' market expectations. A news shock implies potential impacts on the dynamic adjustment process that change not only the volatility but also the long-run steady-state levels of endogenous economic variables. In this study, we contribute to and extend previous researchers' attempts to empirically test for the Olympic Games as a news shock by implementing full structural models and by matching Olympic hosts and bidders to structurally similar countries.		[Langer, Viktoria C. E.; Maennig, Wolfgang] Univ Hamburg, Dept Econ, Hamburg, Germany; [Richter, Felix] Univ Hamburg, Von Melle Pk 5, D-20146 Hamburg, Germany; [Maennig, Wolfgang] Univ Hamburg, Von Melle Pk 5, D-20146 Hamburg, Germany								23							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000438594500006	44	Article; Article		
J	Evans, Brent A.; Pitts, Joshua D.								Cross-Sport Recruiting Effects in NCAA D1 Football and Basketball								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				19	6			820	842		10.1177/1527002516684171			AUG 2018	2018	Using an extensive data set, we conduct an academic study of the determinants of recruiting success in Division 1 basketball and football. Among many findings, we show that football recruiting is correlated with on-court basketball success, although the relationship is not always positive. However, we do not find any evidence supporting the oft-held claim that on-field football success aids in basketball recruiting. Additionally, our models indicate that recruiting effects differ between power and mid-major conferences. These findings, among others provided herein, should enhance the literature on recruiting in college sports and could encourage administrators and coaches to reconsider recruiting tactics.		[Evans, Brent A.] Georgia Coll & State Univ, Dept Econ & Finance, 402 Atkinson Hall, Milledgeville, GA 31061 USA; [Pitts, Joshua D.] Kennesaw State Univ, Dept Exercise Sci & Sport Management, Kennesaw, GA USA; [Evans, Brent A.] Georgia Coll & State Univ, Dept Econ & Finance, 402 Atkinson Hall, Milledgeville, GA 31061 USA								6							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000438594500003	26	Article; Article		
J	Groothuis, Peter A.; Hill, James Richard								Career Duration in the NBA: Do Foreign Players Exit Early?								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				19	6			873	883		10.1177/1527002517690789			AUG 2018	2018	Using a panel of National Basketball Association players from 1990 through 2013, we analyze the determinants of career length in the league. We find that foreign-born players who did not play college basketball in the United States have shorter careers than do American-born players holding performance constant. Foreign-born players who played college basketball in the United States do not have shorter careers. We suggest that both push and pull immigration factors might cause this early exit.		[Groothuis, Peter A.] Appalachian State Univ, Dept Econ, Boone, NC 28608 USA; [Hill, James Richard] Cent Michigan Univ, Dept Econ, Mt Pleasant, MI 48859 USA; [Hill, James Richard] Cent Michigan Univ, Dept Econ, Mt Pleasant, MI 48859 USA								11							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000438594500005	22	Article; Article		
J	Payne, Brian C.; Tresl, Jiri; Friesen, Geoffrey C.								Sentiment and Stock Returns: Anticipating a Major Sporting Event								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				19	6			843	872		10.1177/1527002516684170			AUG 2018	2018	This study documents the effect of the Super Bowl on the stock returns of firms that are geographically associated with the competing teams. We find significant upward return drift in the 9 trading days leading up to the Super Bowl, a pattern consistent with investors trading in anticipation of the game itself. The anticipatory behavior among investors leads to widespread pregame returns, which is not documented in prior studies. These pre-event abnormal returns are positive and statistically and economically significant for all firms, and the size of pre-event returns varies according to each team's favored status. In addition, firms associated with the winning team exhibit significant positive return drift over the 10-day period after their win. Firms associated with the losing team exhibit moderate downward drift. Our findings are strongest among the smallest quintile of firms and are robust to various risk adjustments and using a matched sample control group. The collective findings suggest that only by standing on the sideline will investors avoid winning around the Super Bowl.		[Payne, Brian C.] US Air Force Acad, Colorado Springs, CO 80840 USA; [Payne, Brian C.] Univ Colorado, Colorado Springs, CO 80907 USA; [Tresl, Jiri] Cent Michigan Univ, Dept Finance & Law, Mt Pleasant, MI 48859 USA; [Tresl, Jiri] CERGE EI, Prague, Czech Republic; [Friesen, Geoffrey C.] Univ Nebraska, Dept Finance, Lincoln, NE 68588 USA; [Friesen, Geoffrey C.] Univ Nebraska, Dept Finance, Lincoln, NE 68588 USA								9							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000438594500004	50	Article; Article		
J	Korakakis, Vasileios; Whiteley, Rodney; Epameinontidis, Konstantinos								Blood Flow Restriction induces hypoalgesia in recreationally active adult male anterior knee pain patients allowing therapeutic exercise loading								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				32				235	243		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.05.021			JUL 2018	2018	Objective: To evaluate if a single blood flow restriction (BFR)-exercise bout would induce hypoalgaesia in patients with anterior knee pain (AKP) and allow painless application of therapeutic exercise. Design: Cross-sectional repeated measures design. Setting: Institutional out-patients physiotherapy clinic. Patients: Convenience sample of 30 AKP patients. Intervention: BFR was applied at 80% of complete vascular occlusion. Four sets of low-load open kinetic chain knee extensions were implemented using a pain monitoring model. Main outcome measurements: Pain (0-10) was assessed immediately after BFR application and after a physiotherapy session (45 min) during shallow and deep single-leg squat (SSLS, DSLS), and step-down test (SDT). To estimate the patient rating of clinical effectiveness, previously described thresholds for pain change (>= 40%) were used, with appropriate adjustments for baseline pain levels. Results: Significant effects were found with greater pain relief immediate after BFR in SSLS (d = 0.61, p< 0.001), DSLS (d = 0.61, p< 0.001), and SDT (d = 0.60, p< 0.001). Time analysis revealed that pain reduction was sustained after the physiotherapy session for all tests (d((SSLS)) = 0.60, d((DSLS)) = 0.60, d((SDT)) = 0.58, all p < 0.001). The reduction in pain effect size was found to be clinically significant in both post-BFR assessments. Conclusion: A single BFR-exercise bout immediately reduced AKP with the effect sustained for at least 45 min. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Korakakis, Vasileios; Whiteley, Rodney; Epameinontidis, Konstantinos] Orthopaed & Sports Med Hosp, Aspetar, POB29222, Doha, Qatar; [Korakakis, Vasileios] HOMTD, Athens, Greece; [Korakakis, Vasileios] Orthopaed & Sports Med Hosp, Aspetar, POB29222, Doha, Qatar								64							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000438180300034	65	Article; Article		
J	Neal, Bradley S.; Barton, Christian J.; Birn-Jeffrey, Aleksandra; Daley, Monica; Morrissey, Dylan								The effects & mechanisms of increasing running step rate: A feasibility study in a mixed-sex group of runners with patellofemoral pain								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				32				244	251		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.05.018			JUL 2018	2018	Objectives: To explore feasibility of recruitment and retention of runners with patellofemoral pain (PFP), before delivering a step rate intervention. Design: Feasibility study. Setting: Human performance laboratory. Participants: A mixed-sex sample of runners with PFP (n = 11). Main outcome measures: Average/worst pain and the Kujala Scale were recorded pre/post intervention, alongside lower limb kinematics and surface electromyography (sEMG), sampled during a 3 KM treadmill run. Results: Recruitment and retention of a mixed-sex cohort was successful, losing one participant to public healthcare and with kinematic and sEMG data lost from single participants only. Clinically meaningful reductions in average (MD = 2.1, d = 1.7) and worst pain (MD = 3.9, d = 2.0) were observed. Reductions in both peak knee flexion (MD = 3.7 degrees, d = 0.78) and peak hip internal rotation (MD = 5.1 degrees, d = 0.96) were observed, which may provide some mechanistic explanation for the identified effects. An increase in both mean amplitude (d = 0.53) and integral (d = 0.58) were observed for the Vastus Medialis Obliqus (VMO) muscle only, of questionable clinical relevance. Conclusions: Recruitment and retention of a mixed sex PFP cohort to a step rate intervention involving detailed biomechanical measures is feasible. There are indications of both likely efficacy and associated mechanisms. Future studies comparing the efficacy of different running retraining approaches are warranted. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Neal, Bradley S.; Barton, Christian J.; Birn-Jeffrey, Aleksandra; Morrissey, Dylan] Queen Mary Univ London, Sports & Exercise Med, London, England; [Neal, Bradley S.] Pure Sports Med, London, England; [Barton, Christian J.] La Trobe Univ, La Trobe Sport & Exercise Med Res Ctr, Bundoora, Vic, Australia; [Barton, Christian J.] La Trobe Univ, Sch Allied Hlth, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Barton, Christian J.] Univ British Columbia, Dept Phys Therapy, Vancouver, BC, Canada; [Birn-Jeffrey, Aleksandra] Queen Mary Univ London, Sch Engn & Mat Sci, London, England; [Daley, Monica] Royal Vetinary Coll, Comparat Biomed Sci, London, England; [Morrissey, Dylan] Barts Hlth NHS Trust, Physiotherapy Dept, London, England; [Morrissey, Dylan] Mile End Hosp, Sports & Exercise Med, Bancroft Rd, London E1 4DG, England								26							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000438180300035	54	Article; Article		
J	Dunabeitia, Iratxe; Arrieta, Haritz; Torres-Unda, Jon; Gil, Javier; Santos-Concejero, Jordan; Gil, Susana M.; Irazusta, Jon; Bidaurrazaga-Letona, Iraia								Effects of a capacitive-resistive electric transfer therapy on physiological and biomechanical parameters in recreational runners: A randomized controlled crossover trial								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				32				227	234		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.05.020			JUL 2018	2018	Objectives: This study compared the effects of a capacitive-resistive electric transfer therapy (Tecar) and passive rest on physiological and biomechanical parameters in recreational runners when performed shortly after an exhausting training session. Design: Randomized controlled crossover trial. Setting: University biomechanical research laboratory. Participants: Fourteen trained male runners. Main outcome measures: Physiological (running economy, oxygen uptake, respiratory exchange ratio, ventilation, heart rate, blood lactate concentration) and biomechanical (step length; stride angle, height, frequency, and contact time; swing time; contact phase; support phase; push-off phase) parameters were measured during two incremental treadmill running tests performed two days apart after an exhaustive training session. Results: When running at 14 km/h and 16 km/h, the Tecar treatment group presented greater increases in stride length (p < 0.001), angle (p < 0.05) and height (p < 0.001) between the first and second tests than the control group and, accordingly, greater decreases in stride frequency (p < 0.05). Physiological parameters were similar between groups. Conclusions: The present study suggests that a Tecar therapy intervention enhances biomechanical parameters in recreational runners after an exhaustive training session more than passive rest, generating a more efficient running pattern without affecting selected physiological parameters. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Dunabeitia, Iratxe; Arrieta, Haritz; Torres-Unda, Jon; Gil, Javier; Gil, Susana M.; Irazusta, Jon; Bidaurrazaga-Letona, Iraia] Univ Basque Country, UPV EHU, Fac Med, Dept Physiol, POB 699, E-48080 Bilbao, Bizkaia, Spain; [Santos-Concejero, Jordan] Univ Basque Country, UPV EHU, Fac Phys Act & Sport, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, E-01006 Vitoria, Spain; [Bidaurrazaga-Letona, Iraia] Univ Basque Country, UPV EHU, Fac Med, Dept Physiol, POB 699, E-48080 Bilbao, Bizkaia, Spain								33							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000438180300033	67	Article; Article		
J	Moller, M.; Attermann, J.; Myklebust, G.; Lind, M.; Sorensen, H.; Hebert, J. J.; Nielsen, R. O.; Bertelsen, S. L.; Wedderkopp, N.								The inter- and intrarater reliability and agreement for field-based assessment of scapular control, shoulder range of motion, and shoulder isometric strength in elite adolescent athletes								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				32				212	220		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.04.005			JUL 2018	2018	Objectives: To investigate the intra- and interrater reliability and agreement for field-based assessment of scapular control, shoulder range of motion (ROM), and shoulder isometric strength in elite youth athletes. Design: Test-retest reliability and agreement study. Setting: Eight blinded raters (two for each assessment) assessed players on field during two testing sessions separated by one week. Participants: 162 elite youth handball players with or without a history of previous shoulder pain within the preceding six months. Main outcome measures: Kappa (kappa) and prevalence-adjusted bias-adjusted kappa (PABAK) coefficients for scapular control reliability, and 95% limits of agreement (LOA) for ROM and strength agreement. Results: Scapular control demonstrated substantial to almost perfect reliability (k 0.67 to 0.84, PABAK from 0.68 to 0.88). Mean strength values ranged from 0.9 N/kg to 1.6 N/kg, and LOAs ranged from -0.7 N/ kg to 0.8 N/kg. Rotational strength revealed additionally systematic bias between and within rater. No or acceptable systematic bias were evident for ROM and abduction strength measures. Mean values and LOAs for ROM ranged between 39.9 degrees to 52.3 degrees, and from -12.6 degrees to 9.9 degrees, respectively. Conclusions: Scapular control and ROM can be assessed on the field with acceptable reliability. The threshold for reliable measurements of isometric strength using handheld-dynamometers is high. (C) 2018 Published by Elsevier Ltd.		[Moller, M.; Sorensen, H.; Nielsen, R. O.] Aarhus Univ, Dept Publ Hlth, Sect Sport Sci, DK-8000 Aarhus C, Denmark; [Attermann, J.] Aarhus Univ, Dept Publ Hlth, Sect Epidemiol, Aarhus, Denmark; [Myklebust, G.] Norwegian Sch Sport Sci, Oslo Sports Trauma Res Ctr, Oslo, Norway; [Lind, M.] Aarhus Univ Hosp, Div Sportstraumatol, Aarhus, Denmark; [Hebert, J. J.] Murdoch Univ, Sch Psychol & Exercise Sci, Murdoch, WA, Australia; [Hebert, J. J.] Univ New Brunswick, Fac Kinesiol, Fredericton, NB, Canada; [Bertelsen, S. L.] VIA Univ Coll, Aarhus, Denmark; [Wedderkopp, N.] Univ Southern Denmark, Hosp Lillebaelt, Inst Reg Hlth Serv Res, Orthopaed Dept,Sport Med Clin, Odense, Denmark; [Wedderkopp, N.] Univ Southern Denmark, Ctr Res Childhood Hlth, IOB, Odense, Denmark; [Moller, M.] Aarhus Univ, Dept Publ Hlth, Sect Sport Sci, DK-8000 Aarhus C, Denmark								18							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000438180300031	35	Article; Article		
J	Dingenen, Bart; Blandford, Lincoln; Comerford, Mark; Staes, Filip; Mottram, Sarah								The assessment of movement health in clinical practice: A multidimensional perspective								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				32				282	292		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.04.008			JUL 2018	2018	This masterclass takes a multidimensional approach to movement assessment in clinical practice. It seeks to provide innovative views on both emerging and more established methods of assessing movement within the world of movement health, injury prevention and rehabilitation. A historical perspective of the value and complexity of human movement, the role of a physical therapist in function of movement health evaluation across the entire lifespan and a critical appraisal of the current evidence-based approach to identify individual relevant movement patterns is presented. To assist a physical therapist in their role as a movement system specialist, a clinical-oriented overview of current movement-based approaches is proposed within this multidimensional perspective to facilitate the translation of science into practice and vice versa. A Movement Evaluation Model is presented and focuses on the measurable movement outcome of resultants on numerous interactions of individual, environmental and task constraints. The model blends the analysis of preferred movement strategies with a battery of cognitive movement control tests to assist clinical judgement as to how to optimize movement health across an individual lifespan. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Dingenen, Bart] UHasselt, Fac Med & Life Sci, Biomed Res Inst, Agoralaan, B-3590 Diepenbeek, Belgium; [Blandford, Lincoln; Comerford, Mark; Mottram, Sarah] Movement Performance Solut Ltd, Bristol, Avon, England; [Comerford, Mark; Mottram, Sarah] Univ Southampton, Fac Hlth Sci, Southampton, Hants, England; [Staes, Filip] Katholieke Univ Leuven, Fac Kinesiol & Rehabil Sci, Dept Rehabil Sci, Musculoskeletal Rehabil Res Grp, Leuven, Belgium; [Dingenen, Bart] UHasselt, Fac Med & Life Sci, Biomed Res Inst, Agoralaan, B-3590 Diepenbeek, Belgium								28							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000438180300040	146	Article; Article		
J	Harwood, Annissa; Campbell, Amity; Hendry, Danica; Ng, Leo; Wild, Catherine Y.								Differences in lower limb biomechanics between ballet dancers and non-dancers during functional landing tasks								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				32				180	186		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.05.005			JUL 2018	2018	Objectives: To determine the differences in the lower limb landing biomechanics of adolescent ballet dancers compared to non-dancers when performing a hop and a stop jump task. Design: Cross-sectional. Setting: Laboratory. Participants: Thirteen adolescent female ballet dancers (11.8 +/- 1.1 years) and 17 non-dancers (10.9 +/- 0.8 years) performed hop and stop jump tasks. Main outcome measures: Vertical ground reaction force, and three-dimensional ankle, knee and hip joint angles and moments during the landing phase. Results: Dancers displayed greater sagittal plane joint excursions during the hop and stop jump at the ankle (mean difference = 22.0 degrees, P<0.001,14.8 degrees, P< 0.001 respectively), knee (mean difference = 18.1 degrees, P=0.001, 9.8 degrees, P = 0.002 respectively) and hip (stop jump task; mean difference = 8.3 degrees, P=0.008). Dancers displayed a larger hip extensor moment compared to non-dancers (P< 0.001) during the stop jump task only. Dancers also took longer to reach peak vGRF and jumped three times higher than non-dancers (P < 0.001) during the stop jump task. No difference in peak vGRF between groups was displayed for either task. Conclusions: Adolescent dancers demonstrate a transfer of landing technique to non-ballet specific tasks, reflective of the greater jump height and sagittal plane joint excursions. This landing strategy may be associated with the low rate of non-contact ACL injuries in female dancers. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Harwood, Annissa; Campbell, Amity; Hendry, Danica; Ng, Leo; Wild, Catherine Y.] Curtin Univ, Sch Physiotherapy & Exercise Sci, Perth, WA, Australia; [Wild, Catherine Y.] Curtin Univ, Sch Physiotherapy & Exercise Sci, Bentley, WA 6102, Australia								18							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000438180300026	44	Article; Article		
J	Wilke, J.; Niederer, D.; Vogt, L.; Banzer, W.								Head coaches' attitudes towards injury prevention and use of related methods in professional basketball: A survey								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				32				133	139		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.04.011			JUL 2018	2018	Objectives: To investigate the practices and attitudes of professional basketball head coaches towards injury prevention. Design: Survey. Setting: Elite-level basketball. Participants: Head coaches of all 366 German professional teams. Main outcome measures: Use of injury risk screening methods, rated importance of different musculoskeletal injuries and rated effectiveness of preventive interventions. Results: Eighty-three of 366 invited coaches (23%) responded to the survey. No non-response bias was detected. Only one of three teams conducts systematic injury screenings. The most commonly used test was the functional movement screen (73.1% of users), while balance and strength testing (both 38.5%) were least prevalent. Top-rated preventive interventions included balance and strength training, training of functional movement patterns, and stretching. In contrast, passive interventions, e.g. the use of orthoses, were not considered effective. The involvement of a health professional (e.g. physiotherapist) was associated with the performance of injury screening, but not with the choice of specific tests or preventive strategies. Conclusions: The methods applied to conduct injury screening and prevent musculoskeletal disorders in German professional basketball teams seem only partially backed by scientific evidence. Although not correlated with the tests and interventions used, the involvement of health-related stakeholders might help to identify players at increased injury risk. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Wilke, J.; Niederer, D.; Vogt, L.; Banzer, W.] Goethe Univ, Dept Sports Med, Frankfurt, Germany; [Wilke, J.] Goethe Univ Frankfurt Main, Dept Sports Med, Ginnheimer Landstr 39, D-60487 Frankfurt, Germany								17							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000438180300020	31	Article; Article		
J	Hoch, Johanna M.; Powden, Cameron J.; Hoch, Matthew C.								Reliability, minimal detectable change, and responsiveness of the Quick-FAAM								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				32				269	272		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.04.004			JUL 2018	2018	Objective: To determine the test-retest reliability, minimal detectable change (MDC) and responsiveness of the Quick-FAAM in people with chronic ankle instability (CAI). Design: 10-week controlled laboratory study. Setting: Laboratory. Participants: A total of 20 adults with self-reported CAI. Main outcome measures: Participants completed a supervised 4-week intervention. The Quick-FAAM was assessed 4-weeks before the intervention (T1), prior to the first intervention (T2), 24-h post-intervention (T3), and 2-weeks after the intervention (T4). The Quick-FAAM is a 12-item region specific PRO scored on 5-point Likert scale, often reported as a percentage, and a lower percentage indicates decreased ankle function. Test-retest reliability was determined using Intraclass-correlation coefficients (ICC2,1) and standard error of measure (SEM). The MDC was calculated using the equation: SEM*root 2. Hedges g effect sizes and associated 95% confidence intervals (95%CI) were calculated as a measure of group responsiveness. Results: The test-retest reliability was clinically acceptable (ICC2,1 =0.82,SEM = 4.56). The MDC was 6.5% and pre-post intervention effect sizes were large between T2-T3 (ES = 1.27, 95%CI:0.59-1.95) and T2-T4 (ES = 1.49, 95%CI:0.79-2.19). Conclusion: The Quick-FAAM demonstrated clinically acceptable reliability and was responsive to treatment. Future research should examine these properties in patients with acute ankle and foot conditions, determine patient acceptability, and clinician feasibility. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Hoch, Johanna M.] Univ Kentucky, 206A Charles Wethington Bldg, Lexington, KY 40536 USA; [Powden, Cameron J.] Indiana State Univ, Room A10,567 N 5th St, Terre Haute, IN 47809 USA; [Hoch, Matthew C.] Univ Kentucky, 206B Charles Wethington Bldg, Lexington, KY 40536 USA; [Hoch, Johanna M.] Univ Kentucky, 206A Charles Wethington Bldg, Lexington, KY 40536 USA								13							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000438180300038	19	Article; Article		
J	Williams, Sian A.; Ng, Leo; Stephens, Nathan; Klem, Nardia; Wild, Catherine								Effect of prophylactic ankle taping on ankle and knee biomechanics during basketball-specific tasks in females								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				32				200	206		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.04.006			JUL 2018	2018	Objective: The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of ankle taping on ankle and knee joint biomechanics during cutting and rebound activities in females. Design: Cross-sectional. Setting: Laboratory. Participants: Twenty semi-professional female basketball players performed a cut and rebound task under two conditions (taped and no-tape). Main Outcome Measures: Kinematic and ground reaction force data were collected during the deceleration phase of each movement task. Results: Taping resulted in a significant reduction in peak ankle dorsiflexion, inversion and internal rotation angles and range of motion (ROM) at the ankle joint; and reduced knee ROM in the sagittal plane during the rebound task only. Taping significantly reduced peak knee flexion moment (0.29 Nm/kg, P = 0.013) and increased knee internal rotation moment (0.63 Nm/kg, P = 0.026) during the cutting task compared to control. Taping also significantly reduced the internal rotation moment (0.07 Nm/kg, P = 0.025), and medial shear forces (0.14 N/kg, P = 0.012) in the rebound task. Conclusion: Results of the study suggest that ankle taping restrict ankle range of movement in the rebound task only and ankle taping appears to have upstream effects on the knee, which may have injury implications. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Williams, Sian A.; Ng, Leo; Stephens, Nathan; Klem, Nardia; Wild, Catherine] Curtin Univ, Sch Physiotherapy & Exercise Sci, GPO Box U1987, Perth, WA 6845, Australia; [Ng, Leo] Curtin Univ, Sch Physiotherapy & Exercise Sci, GPO Box U1987, Perth, WA 6845, Australia								18							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000438180300029	32	Article; Article		
J	Mickevicius, Mantas; Degens, Hans; Kesminas, Rolandas; Rutkauskas, Saulius; Satkunskiene, Danguole; Vadopalas, Kazys; Pukenas, Kazimieras; Juerimaee, Jaak; Skurvydas, Albertas; Kamandulis, Sigitas								Early anterior knee pain in male adolescent basketball players is related to body height and abnormal knee morphology								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				32				273	281		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.04.003			JUL 2018	2018	Objectives: To compare knee torque, range of motion, quality of movement, and morphology in dominant and nondominant legs of male adolescent basketball players with and without anterior knee pain and untrained peers. Design: Cross-sectional. Setting: Sports performance laboratory. Participants: Male basketball players aged 14-15 years with and without anterior knee pain and healthy untrained subjects (n = 88). Main outcome measures: Basketball players were allocated to a symptomatic or asymptomatic group based on self-reported anterior knee pain. Associations between pain and body mass, height, passive range of motion, muscle peak torque, coactivation, neuromuscular control, proprioception, and ultrasound observations were investigated. Results: The prevalence of pain did not differ significantly between sides. Of 176 knees inspected, 44 were painful, and 26 of these exhibited abnormalities in ultrasonography. Symptomatic players were 5.0 and 6.9 cm taller than asymptomatic players and controls, respectively (P < 0.05). In athletes with knee pain,the odds ratios of morphological abnormalities and greater height were increased by 8.6 and 5.0 times (P< 0.001). Conclusion: Knee pain prevalence in adolescent basketball players was not related to differences between sides but was higher in tall players. Knee pain was accompanied by morphological abnormalities detected with ultrasound. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Mickevicius, Mantas; Degens, Hans; Kesminas, Rolandas; Satkunskiene, Danguole; Vadopalas, Kazys; Pukenas, Kazimieras; Skurvydas, Albertas; Kamandulis, Sigitas] Lithuanian Sports Univ, Inst Sport Sci & Innovat, Sporto 6, LT-44221 Kaunas, Lithuania; [Degens, Hans] Manchester Metropolitan Univ, Sch Healthcare Sci, Manchester M15 6BH, Lancs, England; [Rutkauskas, Saulius] Lithuanian Univ Hlth Sci, Med Acad, Dept Lab Med, LT-44307 Kaunas, Lithuania; [Juerimaee, Jaak] Univ Tartu, Inst Sport Pedag & Coaching Sci, EE-50090 Tartu, Estonia; [Mickevicius, Mantas] Lithuanian Sports Univ, Inst Sport Sci & Innovat, Sporto 6, LT-44221 Kaunas, Lithuania								5							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000438180300039	47	Article; Article		
J	Rausch, Matthew; Simon, Janet E.; Starkey, Chad; Grooms, Dustin R.								Smartphone virtual reality to increase clinical balance assessment responsiveness								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				32				207	211		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.05.017			JUL 2018	2018	Objective: To determine if a low cost smartphone based, clinically applicable virtual reality (VR) modification to the standard Balance Error Scoring System (BESS) can challenge postural stability beyond the traditional BESS. Design: Cross-sectional study. Setting: University research laboratory. Participants: 28 adults (mean age 23.36 +/- 2.38 years, mean height 1.74 m +/- 0.13, mean weight 77.95 kg +/- 16.63). Main outcome measures: BESS postural control errors and center of pressure (CoP) velocity were recorded during the BESS test and a VR modified BESS (VR-BESS). The VR-BESS used a headset and phone to display a rollercoaster ride to induce a visual and vestibular challenge to postural stability. Results: The VR-BESS significantly increased total errors (20.93 vs. 11.42, p<0.05) and CoP velocity summed across all stances and surfaces (52.96 cm/s vs. 37.73 cm/s, p < 0.05) beyond the traditional BESS. Conclusion: The VR-BESS provides a standardized, and effective way to increase postural stability challenge in the clinical setting. The VR-BESS can use any smartphone technology to induce postural stability deficits that may otherwise normalize with traditional testing. Thus, providing a unique relatively inexpensive and simple to operate clinical assessment tool and/or training stimulus. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Rausch, Matthew; Simon, Janet E.; Starkey, Chad; Grooms, Dustin R.] Ohio Univ, Coll Hlth Sci & Profess, Sch Appl Hlth Sci & Wellness, Div Athlet Training, Athens, OH 45701 USA; [Grooms, Dustin R.] Ohio Univ, Ohio Musculoskeletal & Neurol Inst, Athens, OH 45701 USA; [Grooms, Dustin R.] 1 Ohio Univ, Grover Ctr E156, Athens, OH 45701 USA								11							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000438180300030	18	Article; Article		
J	Ezzat, Allison M.; Brussoni, Mariana; Whittaker, Jackie L.; Emery, Carolyn A.								A qualitative investigation of the attitudes and beliefs about physical activity and post-traumatic osteoarthritis in young adults 3-10 years after an intra-articular knee injury								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				32				98	108		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.05.001			JUL 2018	2018	Objective: To understand the influence of the injury experience on current attitudes and beliefs about physical activity (PA) and the development of post-traumatic osteoarthritis (PTOA) in youth and young adults 3-10 years after a sport-related knee injury. Design: Qualitative study. Setting: University Sports Medical/Research Center. Participants: 20 young adults 3-10 years subsequent to intra-articular knee injury. Main outcome measures: Semi-structured interviews were conducted and transcribed verbatim. Analysis used a constant comparative approach with conceptual labels and categories, axial coding, and selective coding to reveal main themes. Results: The four main themes were: acceptance; resiliency and determination; knee confidence; and athletic identity. Participants accepted the impact of the injury on their sporting ability and future PTOA to varying degrees. Participants were often highly motivated to recover and met the injury with resilience. Knee confidence was a major concern. Most participants' athletic identity had evolved; impacted both by life and injury experiences. Conclusions: This study provides insight into the knee injury experience and resultant attitudes and beliefs regarding PA and PTOA in adolescents. Physiotherapists may assist in secondary prevention of PTOA by promoting PA, addressing knee confidence, and educating about long-term joint health. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Ezzat, Allison M.; Brussoni, Mariana] Univ British Columbia, Sch Populat & Publ Hlth, Vancouver, BC, Canada; [Ezzat, Allison M.; Brussoni, Mariana] BC Childrens Hosp Res Inst, Vancouver, BC, Canada; [Brussoni, Mariana] Univ British Columbia, Dept Pediat, Fac Med, Vancouver, BC, Canada; [Whittaker, Jackie L.] Univ Alberta, Fac Rehabil Med, Glen Sather Sports Med Clin, Dept Phys Therapy, Edmonton, AB, Canada; [Emery, Carolyn A.] Univ Calgary, Fac Kinesiol, Sport Injury Prevent Res Ctr, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Emery, Carolyn A.] Univ Calgary, Cumming Sch Med, Alberta Childrens Hosp Res Inst, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Emery, Carolyn A.] Univ Calgary, Cumming Sch Med, McCaig Inst Bone & Joint Hlth, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Ezzat, Allison M.] Sch Populat & Publ Hlth, 2206 East Mall, Vancouver, BC V6T 1Z3, Canada								27							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000438180300015	45	Article; Article		
J	Lee, Hwang-Jae; Ha, Hyun-Geun; Hahn, Joohee; Lim, Seungyeop; Lee, Wan-hee								Intra- and inter-rater reliabilities for novel muscle thickness assessment during Co-contraction with dual-rehabilitative ultrasound imaging								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				32				109	114		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.05.010			JUL 2018	2018	Objectives: This study aimed to investigate the intra- and inter-rater reliabilities of dual-rehabilitative ultrasound imaging (D-RUSI) for the simultaneous measurement of the thickness of the tibialis anterior (TA) and gastrocnemius (GCM) muscles in healthy young adults. Design: A single-group repeated-measures reliability study. Setting: Rehabilitative ultrasound imaging analysis laboratory. Participants: Thirty-six healthy participants (23 males; age = 26.36 +/- 5.57 years). Main outcome measures: D-RUSI was used for the simultaneous measurement of the muscle thickness of the TA and GCM at rest and during maximum voluntary contraction. Two examiners acquired data from all participants during three separate testing sessions. Results: In the results for the intra-examiner reliability of the TA and GCM muscle thickness for two sessions, all ICC values (95% CI) were good to very good, ranging from 0.72 to 0.95 (SEM 0.01-0.05 mm, MDC 0.02-0.13 mm, respectively). In the results for the inter-examiner reliability of the TA and GCM muscle thickness for three sessions, all ICC values (95% CI) were good to very good, ranging from 0.78 to 0.97 (SEM 0.01-0.10 mm, MDC 0.02-0.15 mm, respectively). Conclusions: These results suggest the potential usefulness of D-RUSI measurements for making management decisions related to muscle function, including muscle co-contraction. (C) 2018 Published by Elsevier Ltd.		[Lee, Hwang-Jae] Sungkyunkwan Univ, Samsung Med Ctr, Samsung Adv Inst Hlth Sci & Technol SAIHST, Dept Hlth Sci & Technol, Samsung Med Ctr Irwon Ro 81, Seoul 135710, South Korea; [Ha, Hyun-Geun] Namseoul Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Cheonan 331707, South Korea; [Hahn, Joohee; Lim, Seungyeop] Sahmyook Univ, Grad Sch, Dept Phys Therapy, 815 Hwarang Ro, Seoul 01795, South Korea; [Lee, Wan-hee] Sahmyook Univ, Coll Hlth & Welf, Dept Phys Therapy, 815 Hwarang Ro, Seoul 01795, South Korea; [Lee, Wan-hee] Sahmyook Univ, Coll Hlth & Welf, Dept Phys Therapy, 815 Hwarang Ro, Seoul 01795, South Korea								7							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000438180300016	39	Article; Article		
J	Pautz, Nikolas; Olivier, Benita; Steyn, Faans								The use of parametric effect sizes in single study musculoskeletal physiotherapy research: A practical primer								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				32				87	97		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.05.002			JUL 2018	2018	Many researchers often do not report effect sizes at all, and, if they do report them, often do not report the correct measure for the design that has been used in the research. With the increased level of attention being given to the reporting of effect sizes and their corresponding confidence intervals, it is important that there is field-specific literature pertaining to the calculation and reporting of these measures. This paper acts as a practical primer for the calculation and reporting of effect size measures aimed at, but not limited to, the field of musculoskeletal physiotherapy research. This primer involves a discussion on which effect sizes are appropriate for within and between-subject single study research, illustrating, through examples based on musculoskeletal research data, how these measures are calculated, interpreted, and reported. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Pautz, Nikolas] Univ KwaZulu Natal UKZN, King Edward Ave, ZA-3209 Durban, KwaZulu Natal, South Africa; [Olivier, Benita] Univ Witwatersrand, Richard Ward, 1 Jan Smuts Ave, ZA-2000 Johannesburg, Gauteng, South Africa; [Steyn, Faans] North West Univ, Stat Consultat Serv, Potchefstroom Campus,Hoffman St, ZA-2520 Potchefstroom, South Africa; [Pautz, Nikolas] Univ KwaZulu Natal UKZN, King Edward Ave, ZA-3209 Durban, KwaZulu Natal, South Africa								23							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000438180300014	32	Article; Article		
J	Murray, Andrew; Fullagar, Hugh; Turner, Anthony P.; Sproule, John								Recovery practices in Division 1 collegiate athletes in North America								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				32				67	73		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.05.004			JUL 2018	2018	Objectives: Establish current practice and attitudes towards recovery in a group of Division-1 Collegiate athletes from North America. Design: A 16-item questionnaire was administered via custom software in an electronic format. Participants: 152 student athletes from a Division-1 Collegiate school across 3 sports (Basketball, American Football, Soccer). Main outcome measures: The approaches and attitudes to recovery in both training and competition. Results: Sleep, cold water immersion (CWI) and nutrition were perceived to be the most effective modalities (88,84 and 80% of the sample believed them to have a benefit respectively).Over half the sample did not believe in using compression for recovery. With regard to actual usage,CWI was the most used recovery modality and matched by athletes believing in, and using, the approach (65%). Only 24% of student athletes believed in, and used, sleep as a recovery modality despite it being rated and perceived as the most effective. Conclusions: Collectively, there is a discrepancy between perception and use of recovery modalities in Collegiate athletes. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Murray, Andrew; Fullagar, Hugh] Univ Oregon, Athlet, 2727 Leo Harris Pkwy, Eugene, OR 97401 USA; [Murray, Andrew; Turner, Anthony P.; Sproule, John] Univ Edinburgh, Inst Sport PE & Hlth Sci, Edinburgh, Midlothian, Scotland; [Fullagar, Hugh] Univ Technol Sydney, Sport & Exercise Discipline Grp, UTS Hlth, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Murray, Andrew] Univ Oregon, Athlet, 2727 Leo Harris Pkwy, Eugene, OR 97401 USA								24							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000438180300011	58	Article; Article		
J	Nili, Steinberg; Shay, Tenenbaum; Myriam, Stern; Aviva, Zeev; Itzhak, Siev-Ner								The association between menarche, intensity of training and passive joint ROM in young pre-professional female dancers: A longitudinal follow-up study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				32				59	66		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.05.003			JUL 2018	2018	Objectives: To determine the association between the status of menarche (yes/no), the intensity of training and the potential to improve passive joint range of motion (ROM) over a 12-month period of dance training. Design: Prospective cohort study. Setting: Dance studio. Participants: Fifty-nine female dancers aged 12.8 +/- 0.5. Main outcome measures: The dancers were asked about their dance intensity and screened for anthropometric parameters and passive joint ROM in Grades 7 and 8. Results: Along the 12 months of dance training, we found significantly increased ankle-foot en-pointe, hip abduction, and hip external rotation (ER); significantly decreased hip internal rotation (IR); and significant increased hip ER:1R ratio. In Grade 7,26 dancers (44.1%) reached menarche (Yes menarche); in Grade 8 an additional 23 dancers (39.0%) reached menarche (No/Yes menarche); and 10 dancers (16.9%) had not reached menarche (No menarche). MANOVA (mixed models) with repeated measures to compare joint ROM between the three menarche groups (Yes; No/Yes; No), with h/week dance practice as a co-variant, showed that hip ER, ankle-foot en-pointe, and ER:1R were significantly correlated with h/ week in all three menarche groups. Conclusions: Most passive joint ROM can be improved over 12 months of dancing around the age onset of menarche. H/week of dance practice is a main factor contributing to improved hip ER, ankle-foot en-pointe and ER/IR ratio. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Nili, Steinberg; Aviva, Zeev] Wingate Coll Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Wingate Inst, Netanya, Israel; [Shay, Tenenbaum] Tel Aviv Univ, Sackler Fac Med, Chaim Sheba Med Ctr Tel Hashomer, Dept Orthoped Surg, Tel Aviv, Israel; [Myriam, Stern] Sheba Med Ctr, Dept Radiol, Tel Hashomer, Israel; [Myriam, Stern] Tel Aviv Univ, Sackler Sch Med, Tel Aviv, Israel; [Itzhak, Siev-Ner] Sheba Med Ctr, Orthoped Rehabil Dept, Tel Hashomer, Israel; [Nili, Steinberg] Wingate Coll Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Wingate Inst, Anat Lab, Netanya, Israel								6							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000438180300010	47	Article; Article		
J	Brogden, Christopher Michael; Marrin, Kelly; Page, Richard Michael; Greig, Matt								The efficacy of elastic therapeutic tape variations on measures of ankle function and performance								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				32				74	79		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.04.019			JUL 2018	2018	Objectives: To investigate the effects of different variations of elastic therapeutic taping (ETT) on tests used to screen for ankle injury risk and function. Design: Randomized crossover. Setting: Laboratory. Participants: Twelve professional male soccer players completed three experimental trials: No tape(NT), RockTape((TM)) (RT),and Kinesio((TM)) Tape (KT) applied to the ankle complex. Outcome Measures: Clinical and functional ankle screening tests were used to assess the effects of ETT on measures of joint position sense, postural stability and ground reaction forces. Results: KT (P = 0.04) and RT (P = 0.01) demonstrated significant improvements in end range joint position sense. When compared to NT, RT significantly (P = 0.02) improved mid-range joint position sense at 15 degrees, and time to complete a drop landing task. No significant differences were observed for measures of postural stability (P >= 0.12) nor ground reaction force variables (P >= 0.33). Conclusions: Results advocate the use of ETT for proprioceptive and functional tasks when applied to the ankles of healthy male soccer players. However, a greater number of practical and significant differences were observed when RT only was applied, indicating that practitioners may potentially advocate the use of RT for tasks requiring proprioception and functional performance. Crown Copyright (C) 2018 Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Brogden, Christopher Michael; Marrin, Kelly; Page, Richard Michael; Greig, Matt] Edge Hill Univ, Dept Sport & Phys Act, Sports Injuries Res Grp, St Helens Rd, Ormskirk L39 4QP, Lancs, England; [Brogden, Christopher Michael] Edge Hill Univ, Dept Sport & Phys Act, Sports Injuries Res Grp, St Helens Rd, Ormskirk L39 4QP, Lancs, England								10							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000438180300012	37	Article; Article		
J	Kabiri, Sanaz; Halabchi, Farzin; Angoorani, Hooman; Yekaninejad, Saeed								Comparison of three modes of aerobic exercise combined with resistance training on the pain and function of patients with knee osteoarthritis: A randomized controlled trial								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				32				22	28		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.04.001			JUL 2018	2018	Objectives: To investigate the effects of three modes of aerobic exercise(lower limbs with and without weight bearing and upper limb)for knee osteoarthritis. Design: Randomized controlled trial. Setting: Sports medicine clinic. Participants: Seventy-eight patients with knee osteoarthritis were divided into 3 groups of resistance training combined with one of three programs of treadmill, cycle ergometer, or arm ergometer aerobic training. Main outcome measures: Pain (VAS), patients' opinion about knee status (KOOS questionnaire), and functional performance [6 min walk test(6MWT), timed up and go test(TUG) and chair stand test]. Results: After 8 weeks, all groups showed significant improvement in the VAS,KOOS and functional tests. After adjusting for baseline characteristics, the change in VAS was significantly higher in arm ergometer than in treadmill group (P = 0.03). Change in TUG was significantly higher in treadmill than arm ergometer group (P = 0.02). Also,the change of function in sport and recreation (a KOOS dimension) was significantly higher in arm ergometer compared to treadmill group (P = 0.04). Conclusion: All modes of aerobic exercise combined with resistance training led to reduced pain and improved function. Nevertheless, arm ergometry may provide greater pain relief and sport performance; while treadmill may cause greater improvement in TUG. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Kabiri, Sanaz; Halabchi, Farzin] Univ Tehran Med Sci, Sports Med Res Ctr, 7 Ale Ahmad Highway,POB 14395-578, Tehran, Iran; [Kabiri, Sanaz; Halabchi, Farzin] Univ Tehran Med Sci, Imam Khomeini Hosp Complex, Dept Sports & Exercise Med, Keshavarz Blvd, Tehran, Iran; [Angoorani, Hooman] Iran Univ Med Sci, HazrateRasoul Hosp, Dept Sports & Exercise Med, Sattar Khan St, Tehran, Iran; [Yekaninejad, Saeed] Univ Tehran Med Sci, Sch Publ Hlth, Dept Epidemiol & Biostat, Poursina St,Keshavarz Blvd, Tehran, Iran; [Halabchi, Farzin] Univ Tehran Med Sci, Sports Med Res Ctr, Sch Med, Dept Sports & Exercise Med, 7 Ale Ahmad Highway,POB 14395-578, Tehran, Iran								41							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000438180300004	52	Article; Article		
J	Kunugi, Shun; Masunari, Akihiko; Yoshida, Naruto; Miyakawa, Shumpei								Association between Cumberland Ankle Instability Tool score and postural stability in collegiate soccer players with and without functional ankle instability								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				32				29	33		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.03.002			JUL 2018	2018	Objective: The purpose of this study was to investigate the association between Cumberland Ankle Instability Tool(CAIT)scores and postural stability during a diagonal landing,and to investigate whether postural stability is altered in collegiate soccer players with and without functional ankle instability (FAI). Design: Cross-sectional study. Setting: Laboratory. Participants: Ninety-one soccer players were classified into a FAI group (history of at least two ankle sprains and a CAIT-Japanese version score <= 25,n = 28), a copers group (history of one ankle sprain and a CAIT-Japanese version score <= 26,n = 32), or a control group (no history of ankle sprain, n = 31). Main outcome measures: Time to anteroposterior stabilisation (TTSAP) and mediolateral stabilisation (TTSML) were measured during the diagonal single-leg landing. Results: The CAIT scores were correlated with TTSAP (P<0.05, r(s) = -0.214) and TTSML (P<0.01, r(s) = -0.566). TTSAP was longer in the FAI group than in the control group, and TTSML was longer in the FAI group than in the other groups. Conclusions: Our findings indicate the presence of an association between the CAIT-J score and TTSML, as well as postural stability deficits in collegiate soccer players with FAI during diagonal landings. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Kunugi, Shun; Miyakawa, Shumpei] Univ Tsukuba, Fac Hlth & Sport Sci, 1-1-1 Tennodai, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 3058574, Japan; [Masunari, Akihiko] Ibaraki Prefectural Univ Hlth Sci, Ctr Med Sci, 4669-2 Ami,Ami Machi, Inashiki, Ibaraki 3000331, Japan; [Yoshida, Naruto] Teikyo Heisei Univ, Fac Hlth Care, Toshima Ku, 2-51-4 Higashi Ikebukuro, Tokyo 1708445, Japan; [Kunugi, Shun] Univ Tsukuba, Fac Hlth & Sport Sci, 1-1-1 Tennodai, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 3058574, Japan								14							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000438180300005	30	Article; Article		
J	Chan, Cliffton; Hopper, Luke; Zhang, Feili; Pacey, Verity; Nicholson, Leslie L.								The prevalence of generalized and syndromic hypermobility in elite Australian dancers								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				32				15	21		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.02.001			JUL 2018	2018	Objectives: To determine the prevalence of Generalized Joint Hypermobility (GJH) and Joint Hypermobility Syndrome/Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome-Hypermobility Type (JHS/EDS-HT) among dancers using established validated measures. Design: Observational Cohort Study. Setting: Laboratory. Participants: 85 dancers from two dance institutions. Main Outcome Measures: GJH was determined using the Beighton score (cut-point >= 5/9) and the Lower Limb Assessment Scale (LLAS) (cut-point >= 7/12). Presence of JHS/EDS-HT was assessed using the Brighton and Villefranche criteria. Paired sample t-test was performed to compare LLAS side-to-side scores, and percentage disagreements calculated to determine differences between the two GJH and the two JHS/EDS-HT measures. Results: 72% of dancers met the Beighton cut-point for GJH, while 38% and 42% met the LLAS cut-point on the left and right respectively. The proportion of dancers identified with GJH was different when assessed using the Beighton compared to the left and right LLAS (both p < 0.001), a disagreement of 48% and 46% respectively, with Beighton classifying more participants as having GJH. The Villefranche identified more dancers with JHS/EDS-HT than the Brighton (84% vs 31%, p < 0.001), with 54% disagreement. Conclusions: High prevalence of generalized and syndromic hypermobility was found regardless of the criteria used. A higher Beighton cut-point, e.g. >= 6/9, to identify true GJH amongst dancers maybe warranted. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Chan, Cliffton; Nicholson, Leslie L.] Univ Sydney, Sydney Med Sch, Discipline Biomed Sci, 75 East St, Lidcombe, NSW 1825, Australia; [Hopper, Luke] Edith Cowan Univ, Western Australian Acad Performing Arts, 1-2 Bradford St, Menora, WA 6050, Australia; [Zhang, Feili] Univ Sydney, Fac Hlth Sci, Discipline Physiotherapy, 75 East St, Lidcombe, NSW 1825, Australia; [Pacey, Verity] Macquarie Univ, Fac Med & Hlth Sci, Dept Hlth Profess, 75 Talavera Rd, Macquarie, NSW 2109, Australia; [Chan, Cliffton] Univ Sydney, Sydney Med Sch, Discipline Biomed Sci, 75 East St, Lidcombe, NSW 1825, Australia								25							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000438180300003	43	Article; Article		
J	de Fontenay, Benoit Pairot; Esculier, Jean-Francois; Bouyer, Laurent; Roy, Jean-Sebastien								Hip kinematics during functional tasks in females with patellofemoral pain: Modification following rehabilitation and correlation with clinical improvement								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				32				7	14		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.03.001			JUL 2018	2018	Objectives: To compare hip kinematics during two functional tasks in females with and without patellofemoral pain (PFP),and to determine if hip kinematics and, symptoms and functional limitations were improved after a rehabilitation program. Design: Cross sectional and longitudinal. Participants: Sixteen females with and 15 without PFP. Setting: Laboratory and physical therapy clinic. Main outcome measures: Hip adduction (HADD) and medial rotation (HMR) peak angles, time integrals and inter-movement variability during step-down and vertical drop jump, symptoms and functional limitations evaluated using the Activities of Daily Living Scale of the Knee Outcome Survey (KOS-ADLS). Results: At baseline, no significant differences were found in step-down and vertical drop jump between PFP and controls. Following rehabilitation, significant improvements were reported in KOS-ADLS (p< 0.001). There was a significant decrease in HADD and HMR variability (p<0.05), a trend for decreased peak HMR (p = 0.06) during step-down, and a significant decrease in HADD variability (p < 0.05) during vertical drop jump. These kinematic changes did not correlate with changes in KOS-ADLS (all p> 0.05). Conclusion: Females with and without PFP demonstrated no hip kinematic differences during functional tasks. A rehabilitation program improved symptoms and functional status, and modified hip kinematics in females with PFP; however these changes were not correlated. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[de Fontenay, Benoit Pairot; Esculier, Jean-Francois; Bouyer, Laurent; Roy, Jean-Sebastien] Ctr Interdisciplinary Res Rehabil & Social Integr, Quebec City, PQ G1M 2S8, Canada; [Bouyer, Laurent; Roy, Jean-Sebastien] Univ Laval, Fac Med, Dept Rehabil, Quebec City, PQ G1R 1P5, Canada; [Roy, Jean-Sebastien] Ctr Interdisciplinary Res Rehabil & Social Integr, Quebec City, PQ G1M 2S8, Canada								2							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000438180300002	41	Article; Article		
J	Ryan, Desmond; Lewin, Colin; Forsythe, Shad; McCall, Alan								Developing World Class Soccer Players: An Example of the Academy Physical Development Program From an English Premier League Team								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				40	3			2	11		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000340			JUN 2018	2018	The role of the youth academy in elite soccer is to create world-class players. This involves targeted development of a myriad of factors, including technical, tactical, psychological, and physical qualities. The role of sports science and medicine is to optimize the physical development of young promising players. In line with the multifaceted nature of player development, the sports science and medicine department must integrate effectively into the overall youth academy. The purpose of the Present article is to outline the objectives, methods, and operations of a sports science and medicine department of one of the biggest soccer teams in the world.		[Ryan, Desmond; Lewin, Colin; Forsythe, Shad; McCall, Alan] Arsenal Football Club, London, England; [Ryan, Desmond] Arsenal Football Club, London, England								34							Sport Sciences	WOS:000440257100002	30	Article; Article		
J	Bolter, Nicole D.; Petranek, Laura Jones; Dorsch, Travis E.								Coach, parent, and administrator perspectives on required coaching education in organized youth sport								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	3			362	372		10.1177/1747954117735718			JUN 2018	2018	Previous studies have primarily relied on coaches' perspectives about whether and how to provide formal coaching education in youth sport. This study was designed to highlight multiple perspectives from key stakeholders (i.e., coaches, parents, and administrators) about the need for required formal coaching education programs in a youth sport community. We applied Bronfenbrenner's process-person-context-time framework to understand views on required coaching education and children's development through sport from an ecological vantage. The sample included 202 coaches, 309 parents, and 38 administrators who were involved in youth sport. In an online survey, participants were asked whether they agreed or disagreed that coaching education should be required, followed by an open-ended question asking them to elaborate on their answer. Quantitatively, the majority of participants agreed or strongly agreed that coaching education should be required. Inductive-deductive qualitative analyses resulted in 49 lower order themes representing 11 higher order themes that spanned the four categories of the process-person-context-time framework. Themes highlighted both convergence and divergence among the perspectives of coaches, parents, and administrators about why coaching education should or should not be required.		[Bolter, Nicole D.] San Francisco State Univ, Dept Kinesiol, 1600 Holloway Ave, San Francisco, CA 94132 USA; [Petranek, Laura Jones] Boise State Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Boise, ID 83725 USA; [Dorsch, Travis E.] Utah State Univ, Dept Family Consumer & Human Dev, Logan, UT 84322 USA; [Bolter, Nicole D.] San Francisco State Univ, Dept Kinesiol, 1600 Holloway Ave, San Francisco, CA 94132 USA								14							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000434391200015	24	Article; Article		
J	van der Graaff, Erik; Hoozemans, Marco; Pasteuning, Maurice; Veeger, Dirkjan; Beek, Peter J.								Focus of attention instructions during baseball pitching training								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	3			391	397		10.1177/1747954117711095			JUN 2018	2018	It has often been shown that performance and learning in movement tasks may be improved by focusing on the effect of the movement in the environment (external focus of attention) instead of the movement itself (internal focus of attention). Nevertheless, most coaching instructions and feedback information given in sports seem to favor an internal focus of attention over an external one. In the present study, we investigated coaches' instructions and feedback in an instrumental sports action, viz. baseball pitching, in which external targets are readily identifiable, such as the strike area or the catcher's glove. To this end, we recorded and analyzed the pitching instructions and feedback statements of six baseball coaches given to 70 elite youth baseball pitchers (mean age 15.3 (SD 1.67) years) during regular pitching training sessions over a training period of four weeks. All instructions and feedback statements were classified according to the type of focus of attention invoked (i.e. internal or external), and a rest category of all other statements. Of the statements promoting a specific focus of attention (717/1699), only 31% (224/717) were classified as external focus of attention statements. Correspondingly, the responses on a questionnaire filled out by the pitchers indicated that they used an internal focus of attention during practice and preferred to receive internally oriented over externally oriented instructions and feedback. The present results show that, even in sports involving clear external targets such as baseball pitching, the internal focus of attention instructions prevails, the experimental evidence in favor of external focus of attention instructions notwithstanding.		[van der Graaff, Erik; Hoozemans, Marco; Pasteuning, Maurice; Veeger, Dirkjan; Beek, Peter J.] Vrije Univ Amsterdam, Amsterdam Movement Sci, Fac Behav & Movement Sci, Dept Human Movement Sci, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Veeger, Dirkjan] Delft Univ Technol, Dept Biomech Engn, Delft, Netherlands; [van der Graaff, Erik] Vrije Univ Amsterdam, Dept Human Movement Sci, van der Boechorststr 7-9, NL-1081 BT Amsterdam, Netherlands								28							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000434391200018	22	Article; Article		
J	Sanders, David								Improving the picking-and-placing of a ball using simple rules derived from reduced models of arm links and joints								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	3			441	451		10.1177/1747954117728900			JUN 2018	2018	This paper presents simple rules to improve the efficiency of picking-and-placing a ball. A simple model of an upper limb was created to examine the gross motions associated with picking-and-placing a ball in sports such as rugby and American football. The research used the Lagrange formulation for a simple representation of the major links and joints of the upper limb. From the simple models, two simple rules were extracted to improve the efficiency of picking-and-placing the ball. Results from testing the use of the rules with both a simple mechanical arm and with human players are presented. Analysis and testing suggested that applying the rules could increase the speed of the pick-and-place movement by up to 17.5%.		[Sanders, David] Univ Portsmouth, Knowledge & Syst Res, Portsmouth PO1 3DJ, Hants, England; [Sanders, David] Univ Portsmouth, Knowledge & Syst Res, Portsmouth PO1 3DJ, Hants, England								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000434391200026	39	Article; Article		
J	Lee, Ye Hoon; Woo, Boyun; Kim, Yukyoum								Transformational leadership and organizational citizenship behavior: Mediating role of affective commitment								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	3			373	382		10.1177/1747954117725286			JUN 2018	2018	The purpose of this study was to examine the relationships between transformational leadership style, affective commitment, and organizational citizenship behavior in the athletic director-coach relationship. This study particularly focused on the mediating effect of affective commitment on the relationship between transformational leadership and organizational citizenship behavior. Athletic head coaches in NCAA Division II programs (N = 244) completed the questionnaires measuring perceptions of the transformational leadership style of their athletic directors, their affective commitment, and organizational citizenship behavior. The results revealed that perceived transformational leadership was positively associated with affective commitment, which, in turn, was positively associated with organizational citizenship behaviors. Further, the result of this study supported full mediation among the proposed variables in that affective commitment served as the underlying psychological mechanism in the relationship between transformational leadership and organizational citizenship behaviors. Implications for athletic departments in fostering head coaches' affective commitment and organizational citizenship behavior were discussed.		[Lee, Ye Hoon] Univ North Alabama, Dept Hlth Phys Educ & Recreat, Florence, AL USA; [Woo, Boyun] Endicott Coll, Sch Sport Sci, Beverly, MA USA; [Kim, Yukyoum] Seoul Natl Univ, Dept Phys Educ, 1 Gwanak Ro, Seoul, South Korea; [Kim, Yukyoum] Seoul Natl Univ, Dept Phys Educ, 1 Gwanak Ro, Seoul, South Korea								38							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000434391200016	53	Article; Article		
J	Schroepf, Bettina; Lames, Martin								Career patterns in German football youth national teams - A longitudinal study								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	3			405	414		10.1177/1747954117729368			JUN 2018	2018	The aim of this study was to identify career patterns in German youth national teams and investigate differences between the patterns in relative age effect and transition rate to professional senior football. Also, player transitions between age group levels were traced to identify squad politics of German Football Association. We examined all 636 youth national team players born between 1987 and 1994, who represented Germany between U16 and U21, as well as all senior national team players born in those age groups. We identified eight typical career types. It was found that youth national team careers lasting one or two years make up 60.5%, which shows a high fluctuation between age groups. Moreover, early and short youth national team careers mostly do not end in a professional career, while late and long youth national team careers more likely lead to a successful career in senior football. Regarding relative age effect, it could be shown that its effect size is highest the younger the age of the player is. Predominantly short careers and a high fluctuation between age groups evidence a short-term strategy in talent development by German Football Association selecting the momentary best players instead of searching for prospects.		[Schroepf, Bettina; Lames, Martin] Tech Univ Munich, Dept Sports & Hlth Sci, Campus D Georg Brauchle Ring 60-62, D-80992 Munich, Germany; [Schroepf, Bettina] Tech Univ Munich, Dept Sports & Hlth Sci, Campus D Georg Brauchle Ring 60-62, D-80992 Munich, Germany								33							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000434391200020	14	Article; Article		
J	Abbott, Will; Brickley, Gary; Smeeton, Nicholas J.								An individual approach to monitoring locomotive training load in English Premier League academy soccer players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	3			421	428		10.1177/1747954118771181			JUN 2018	2018	To account for the individual intensity of locomotion tasks, individualised speed thresholds have been proposed as an alternative to global speed thresholds. Methodologies to determine individual speed thresholds have typically been laboratory based, time consuming and expensive, rendering them inappropriate for applied practitioners working with large squads. The current investigation utilised easy-to-administer field tests to individualise speed thresholds. The aim was to investigate differences between high-speed locomotion measured using global and individual speed thresholds. Nineteen, male, professional soccer players completed maximum sprint and maximum aerobic speed protocols and were divided into groups dependent upon maximum aerobic speed performance (high, medium and low). Locomotion data were collected using portable Global Positioning System units and analysed using global and individual analysis methods to determine distances travelled performing high-speed running, very high-speed running and sprinting. In low athletes, the individual analysis method produced significantly higher percentages of high-speed running, very high-speed running and sprinting compared to global (mean differences 7.8%, 6.1% and 1.7%, respectively, all p < 0.001). In medium athletes, no significant differences were found between analysis methods for high-speed running and very high-speed running. In high athletes, the individual analysis method produced significantly lower high-speed running and very high-speed running percentages compared to global (mean differences 11.0% and 6.8%, p < 0.001). Results concluded that global thresholds produced high-speed locomotion percentages significantly higher or lower than individual thresholds for 47% of athletes. The current investigation recommends the use of field tests to individualise speed thresholds, allowing applied practitioners to accurately quantify individual athlete intensity.		[Abbott, Will] Brighton & Hove Albion Football Club, Dept Sport Sci & Med, Brighton, E Sussex, England; [Abbott, Will; Brickley, Gary; Smeeton, Nicholas J.] Univ Brighton, Ctr Sport & Exercise Sci & Med, Eastbourne, England; [Abbott, Will] Brighton & Hove Albion Football Club, Dept Sport Sci & Med, 60 Mash Barn Lane, Lancing BN15 9FP, England								19							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000434391200022	25	Article; Article		
J	Cruz-Ferreira, Antonio Miguel; Cruz-Ferreira, Eduardo Miguel; Ribeiro, Pedro Barbosa; Santiago, Luiz Miguel; Taborda-Barata, Luis								Epidemiology of Time-Loss Injuries in Senior and Under-18 Portuguese Male Rugby Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				62	1			73	80		10.1515/hukin-2017-0159			JUN 2018	2018	Rugby union has one of the highest injury incidence rates in team sports, however, most of the available data focus on the epidemiology of injuries in countries where rugby is popular. We aimed to report the incidence rate and relevant epidemiological aspects of injuries occurred in a group of Portuguese male rugby players. A prospective cohort study was conducted with a group of 45 senior and 32 under-18 male players (total of 77 players). Outcome measures included injury incidence, position, type, location and severity of injuries. The match injury incidence for all players was 55.84 per 1000 player match-hours (66.66 for seniors, 42.85 for under-18), while mean time-loss for injury was 20.79 days. No statistical differences were found between groups. Lower limb injuries accounted for 60.5% of all injuries, while joint/ligament injuries were the most prevalent type. Contact events were responsible for 65.1% of injuries. Despite the limitations, the obtained data are consistent with the literature. Time-loss injuries seem highly prevalent in rugby union and the incidence rates found in this Portuguese-based study were lower than the reported for international and senior men's professional rugby union, but higher than those occurring in community rugby in tier-1 countries. The authors believe these data reinforce the need to develop and implement effective injury surveillance and prevention programs.		[Cruz-Ferreira, Antonio Miguel; Cruz-Ferreira, Eduardo Miguel; Taborda-Barata, Luis] Univ Beira Interior, Fac Ciencias Saude, Covilha, Portugal; [Cruz-Ferreira, Antonio Miguel] UCSP Mealhada, Mealhada, Portugal; [Cruz-Ferreira, Antonio Miguel; Cruz-Ferreira, Eduardo Miguel; Ribeiro, Pedro Barbosa] Assoc Acad Coimbra Rugby, Coimbra, Portugal; [Cruz-Ferreira, Eduardo Miguel] ULS Guarda, Hosp Sousa Martins, Serv Ortopedia, Guarda, Portugal; [Santiago, Luiz Miguel] Univ Coimbra, Fac Med, Coimbra, Portugal; [Santiago, Luiz Miguel] USF Topazio, Coimbra, Portugal; [Taborda-Barata, Luis] Ctr Hosp Cova da Beira, Serv Imunoalergol, Covilha, Portugal; [Cruz-Ferreira, Antonio Miguel] Univ Beira Interior, Fac Ciencias Saude, Covilha, Portugal; [Cruz-Ferreira, Antonio Miguel] Rua Principal Paredes S-N, P-3020285 Coimbra, Portugal								15							Sport Sciences	WOS:000435204200008	16	Article; Article		
J	van den Tillaar, Roland; Saeterbakken, Atle Hole								Comparison of Core Muscle Activation Between a Prone Bridge and 6-RM Back Squats								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				62	1			43	53		10.1515/hukin-2017-0176			JUN 2018	2018	The purpose of this study was to compare core muscle activation during a prone bridge (plank) until failure and 6-RM back squats. Twelve resistance-trained males (age 23.5 +/- 2.6 years, body mass 87.8 +/- 21.3 kg, body height 1.81 +/- 0.08 m) participated in this study. Total exercise time and EMG activity of the rectus abdominis, external abdominal oblique and erector spinae were measured during 6-RM back squats and a prone bridge with a weight of 20% of participants' body mass on their lower back. The main findings showed non-significant differences between the exercises in the rectus abdominis or external oblique, but greater erector spinae activation in squatting. Furthermore, in contrast to the prone bridge, the erector spinae and rectus abdominis demonstrated increasing muscle activation throughout the repetitions while squatting, whereas the prone bride demonstrated increasing external oblique activation between the beginning and the middle of the set. It was concluded that since squatting resulted in greater erector spine activation, but similar rectus abdominis and oblique external activation as the prone bridge, high-intensity squats rather than isometric low intensity core exercises for athletes would be recommended.		[van den Tillaar, Roland] Nord Univ, Dept Sports Sci & Phys Educ, Odins Veg 23, N-7603 Levanger, Norway; [Saeterbakken, Atle Hole] Western Norwy Univ Appl Sci, Dept Teacher Educ & Sports, Sogndal, Norway; [van den Tillaar, Roland] Nord Univ, Dept Sports Sci & Phys Educ, Odins Veg 23, N-7603 Levanger, Norway								16							Sport Sciences	WOS:000435204200005	42	Article; Article		
J	Radojewski, Mateusz; Podgorski, Tomasz; Pospieszna, Barbara; Krysciak, Jakub; Sliwicka, Ewa; Karolkiewicz, Joanna								Skeletal Muscle Cell Damage Indicators in Volleyball Players after the Competitive Phase of the Annual Training Cycle								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				62	1			81	90		10.1515/hukin-2017-0160			JUN 2018	2018	The aim of the study was to evaluate the impact of the competitive phase on physiological and metabolic indices and selected markers of skeletal muscle damage in male volleyball players. The study group consisted of 24 young male volleyball players. During the study, participants underwent two series of measurements, before and after the competitive phase of the annual training cycle. In both study terms, players performed an incremental treadmill running test to determine their ventilatory threshold and maximal oxygen uptake. Venous and capillary blood samples were taken for biochemical analysis. There was no significant difference in the physical fitness level, values of biochemical variables and the level of antioxidant status in the surveyed athletes between the two study terms. Significant changes within skeletal muscle damage markers were observed between the beginning and the end of the competitive period: an increase in the concentration of cellular DNA damage products (8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine; p < 0.0001) and a decrease in muscle activity of creatine kinase (p<0.05). In spite of the increment in cell damage markers, the unaffected level of physiological and biochemical markers may indicate that the experienced cell destruction did not negatively affect the level of physical fitness. When designing the annual training plan, coaches and athletes need to take into consideration that temporary physiological states - oxidative stress and inflammation - may be required to attain training adaptation.		[Radojewski, Mateusz; Podgorski, Tomasz; Krysciak, Jakub; Sliwicka, Ewa; Karolkiewicz, Joanna] Univ Sch Phys Educ Poznan, Dept Biomed Fdn Phys Act, Poznan, Poland; [Pospieszna, Barbara] Adam Mickiewicz Univ, Dept Tourism & Recreat, Poznan, Poland; [Karolkiewicz, Joanna] Univ Sch Phys Educ, Dept Hyg, Ul Krolowej Jadwigi 27-39, PL-61871 Poznan, Poland								8							Sport Sciences	WOS:000435204200009	33	Article; Article		
J	Shiau, Kai; Tsao, Te Hung; Yang, Chang Bin								Effects of Single versus Multiple Bouts of Resistance Training on Maximal Strength and Anaerobic Performance								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				62	1			231	240		10.1515/hukin-2017-0122			JUN 2018	2018	This study examined the effects of one single bout daily versus triple bouts of resistance exercise for 12 weeks on muscular strength and anaerobic performance of the upper body. Twenty young male adults (age: 22.0 +/- 1.0 years, bench press: 44.0 +/- 10.3 kg) were randomly assigned to a single bout (SB) or triple bouts (TB) of resistance exercise group. Maximal strength and anaerobic performance of the upper body using the bench press (one-repetition maximum) and the modified 30 s Wingate test were determined before and after the intervention. Additionally, changes in lactate levels before and after the Wingate test were measured. Although the SB and TB groups showed a significant increase in maximal strength (post-intervention, SB: 67.2 +/- 9.2 and TB: 67.6 +/- 7.6 kg, respectively) compared with the values at pre-intervention (SB: 44.6 +/- 11.4 and TB: 43.9 +/- 8.7 kg, respectively), there was no significant difference for this variable between the two groups post-intervention (p > 0.05). The anaerobic performance of the upper body in the SB and TB groups also displayed improvements without significant difference between the two groups after the completion of different training regimes. On the basis of the same training volume, multiple bouts of resistance training showed similar improvements in maximal strength and anaerobic performance to one bout of resistance training in young adult men without prior experience in resistance training		[Shiau, Kai] Air Force Inst Technol, Kaohsiung, Taiwan; [Tsao, Te Hung] Natl Sun Yat Sen Univ, Phys Educ Sect Gen Educ, 70 Lienhai Rd, Kaohsiung 80424, Taiwan; [Yang, Chang Bin] Natl Dong Hwa Univ, Dept Phys Educ & Kinesiol, Hualien, Taiwan; [Tsao, Te Hung] Natl Sun Yat Sen Univ, Phys Educ Sect Gen Educ, 70 Lienhai Rd, Kaohsiung 80424, Taiwan								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:000435204200023	37	Article; Article		
J	Sanchez-Sanchez, Javier; Ramirez-Campillo, Rodrigo; Carretero, Manuel; Martin, Victor; Hernandez, Daniel; Nakamura, Fabio Y.								Soccer Small-Sided Games Activities Vary According to the Interval Regime and their Order of Presentation within the Session								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				62	1			167	175		10.1515/hukin-2017-0168			JUN 2018	2018	In order to investigate the physical demands of widely used in soccer small-sided games (SSGs), we compared game variations performed under different interval (fixed or variable) and timing regimens (beginning or end of a training session). Twelve male players wore GPS devices during the SSGs to record total distance, relative distance, distance at different speeds, and maximum velocity variables. Four variations of SSGs (4x4) were randomly applied: beginning of a training session with fixed and variable recovery, or end of a training session with fixed and variable recovery. During the beginning or end of a training session settings with fixed recovery duration, 2-min of playing and 2-min of recovery were provided. During the beginning and end of a training session settings with variable recovery, athletes kept playing until a goal was scored, or up to 2-min if no goals were scored. Results were analysed using MANOVA. Total distance and relative distance were higher in the beginning compared to end of training sessions for both fixed and variable recovery duration (small to moderate effect sizes). Distance at various speed ranges (i.e., 13-18 km/h and >18 km/h) was higher (p = 0.01) at the beginning than at the end of training sessions with variable recovery. In addition, distance >18 km/h was higher at the beginning of a training session with variable recovery than fixed recovery and at the end of a training session with variable recovery than fixed recovery. In conclusion, several physical demand characteristics are affected by the moment of SSG application, while others respond to the recovery regime during SSGs, thus providing indications to the coaches to prescribe the intended training intensity by manipulating the context.		[Sanchez-Sanchez, Javier; Ramirez-Campillo, Rodrigo; Carretero, Manuel; Martin, Victor; Hernandez, Daniel; Nakamura, Fabio Y.] Pontifical Univ Salamanca, Grp Planning & Assessment Training & Athlet Perfo, Salamanca, Spain; [Ramirez-Campillo, Rodrigo] Univ Los Lagos, Dept Phys Act Sci, Res Nucleus Hlth Phys Act & Sport, Osorno, Chile; [Nakamura, Fabio Y.] G DAnnunzio Univ Chieti Pescara, Dept Med & Aging Sci, Via Vestini 31, I-66100 Pescara, Italy; [Nakamura, Fabio Y.] James Cook Univ, Coll Healthcare Sci, Townsville, Qld, Australia; [Nakamura, Fabio Y.] G DAnnunzio Univ Chieti Pescara, Dept Med & Aging Sci, Via Vestini 31, I-66100 Pescara, Italy								26							Sport Sciences	WOS:000435204200017	38	Article; Article		
J	Slawinski, Jean; Louis, Julien; Poli, Julien; Tiollier, Eve; Khazoom, Charles; Dinu, Daniel								The Effects of Repeated Sprints on the Kinematics of 3-Point Shooting in Basketball								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				62	1			5	14		10.1515/hukin-2017-0156			JUN 2018	2018	Fatigue modifies the kinematics of various sports-related movements. Basketball induces fatigue, however, the effects of fatigue on the kinematics of shooting have never been studied. This study analysed the effects of fatigue induced by repeated sprints on the kinematics of 3-point shooting (3PS) in young, elite basketball players (U18 level). 3D joint angles were calculated at the maximum and minimum heights of the centre of mass during 3PS, using inertial measurement units (Biomech system, Xsens Technologies BV, Enschede, The Netherlands). Height, velocity and the angle of the ball at the time of release were extrapolated from the wrist joint angles. All players performed four 3PS actions in dynamic conditions before and after a fatigue protocol at 70% of their maximal exercise capacity. The fatigue protocol consisted of a shuttle test with repeated 20-m sprints interspersed with sets of 5 jumps. There was no change in the kinematics of 3PS (p > 0.05), or the ball release variables (p > 0.05) following the fatigue protocol. This suggests that elite basketball players are able to cope with physical fatigue while performing coordinated movements such as 3PS.		[Slawinski, Jean; Poli, Julien] Univ Paris Nanterre, EA 2931, Ctr Rech Sport & Mouvement, UFRSTAPS, Nanterre, France; [Louis, Julien] Liverpool John Moores Univ, Res Inst Sport & Exercise Sci, Liverpool, Merseyside, England; [Tiollier, Eve; Dinu, Daniel] French Natl Inst Sport INSEP, Res Dept, Lab Sport Expertise & Performance EA 7370, Paris, France; [Khazoom, Charles] Univ Sherbrooke, 2500 Boul Univ, Sherbrooke, PQ J1K 2R1, Canada; [Slawinski, Jean] Univ Paris Nanterre, EA 2931, Ctr Rech Sport & Mouvement, UFRSTAPS, Nanterre, France								19							Sport Sciences	WOS:000435204200001	30	Article; Article		
J	Ohnuma, Hayato; Tachi, Masanobu; Kumano, Akihito; Hirano, Yuichi								How To Maintain Maximal Straight Path Running Speed on a Curved Path in Sprint Events								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				62	1			23	31		10.1515/hukin-2017-0175			JUN 2018	2018	This study aims to clarify the ideal technique for running on a curved path during sprinting events. Participants were twelve male track and field athletes including long jumpers and sprinters. The participants performed a 60-m sprint with maximal effort on straight and curved paths. Participants were divided into "good curve runners" and "poor curve runners" according to the curved path running speed relative to that of the straight path. Kinematic variables and ground reaction forces (GRFs) were registered and compared between the groups and paths. The running speed, step length, and flight distance of the outside leg on the curved path were lower than on the straight path only in poor curve runners. The medial-lateral GRF and impulse showed an increase during curved path running for both groups. However, the maximum posterior GRF and impulse decreased only in poor curve runners. The ideal technique for running on a curved path is to maintain the same kinematics and kinetics in the sagittal plane as on a straight path.		[Ohnuma, Hayato] Japan Inst Sports Sci, Dept Sports Sci, Tokyo, Japan; [Tachi, Masanobu] Nara Univ Educ, Fac Educ, Nara, Japan; [Kumano, Akihito] Tokai Univ, Sch Phys Educ, Hiratsuka, Kanagawa, Japan; [Hirano, Yuichi] Hosei Univ, Fac Sports & Hlth Studies, Machida, Tokyo, Japan; [Ohnuma, Hayato] Japan Inst Sports Sci, Dept Sports Sci, Kita Ku, 3-15-1 Nishigaoka, Tokyo 1150056, Japan								18							Sport Sciences	WOS:000435204200003	24	Article; Article		
J	Wilk, Michal; Golas, Artur; Stastny, Petr; Nawrocka, Monika; Krzysztofik, Michal; Zajac, Adam								Does Tempo of Resistance Exercise Impact Training Volume?								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				62	1			241	250		10.2478/hukin-2018-0034			JUN 2018	2018	Volume and intensity of exercise are the basic components of training loads, having a direct impact on adaptive patterns. Exercise volume during resistance training has been conventionally evaluated as a total number of repetitions performed in each set, regardless of the time and speed of performing individual exercises. The aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of varied tempos i.e. regular (REG) 2/0/2/0, medium (MED) 5/0/3/0 and slow (SLO) 6/0/4/0 during resistance exercise on training volume, based on the total number of performed repetitions (REPsum1-5) and time under tension (TUTsum1-5). Significant differences in TUT (s) were found in particular sets for each tempo of 2/0/2/0, 5/0/3/0 and 6/0/4/0 (p < 0.001). The ANOVA also revealed substantial differences in the REP for individual sets (p < 0.001). Post-hoc analyses showed that TUT for each set and total TUTsum1-5 were significantly higher in the 5/0/3/0 and 6/0/4/0 tempos compared to 2/0/2/0 (p < 0.001). REP was significantly higher for the 2/0/2/0 tempo compared to 5/0/3/0 and 6/0/4/0 tempo in each set. Total REPsum1-5, TUTsum1-5 between 5/0/3/0 and 6/0/4/0 tempos were not significantly different. The main finding of this study is that the movement tempo in strength training impacts training volume, both in terms of repetitions and total time under tension.		[Wilk, Michal; Golas, Artur; Krzysztofik, Michal; Zajac, Adam] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Dept Sports Training, Katowice, Poland; [Stastny, Petr] Charles Univ Prague, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Dept Sport Games, Prague, Czech Republic; [Nawrocka, Monika] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Dept Stat & Methodol, Katowice, Poland; [Krzysztofik, Michal] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Dept Sports Training, Katowice, Poland								82							Sport Sciences	WOS:000435204200024	30	Article; Article		
J	Jeffreys, Ian; Huggins, Sam; Davies, Nick								Delivering a Gamespeed-Focused Speed and Agility Development Program in an English Premier League Soccer Academy								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				40	3			23	32		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000325			JUN 2018	2018	Speed and agility are highly prized commodities in soccer, but it can be argued that what is crucial is not speed and agility per se, but how these capacities are exploited in the game. Of themselves, speed and agility will be ineffective unless they can be combined with the ability to deploy these capacities to effectively perform the tasks of the game. Optimizing these capacities requires a sophisticated development program that addresses the full gamut of potential constraints to performance this article outlines how such a development program has been set-up at an english premier league soccer academy.		[Jeffreys, Ian] Univ South Wales, Strength & Conditioning, Pontypridd, M Glam, Wales; [Huggins, Sam] Swansea City FC Acad, Performance, Swansea, W Glam, Wales; [Davies, Nick] Swansea City FC Acad, Athlet Dev, Swansea, W Glam, Wales; [Jeffreys, Ian] Univ South Wales, Strength & Conditioning, Pontypridd, M Glam, Wales								27							Sport Sciences	WOS:000440257100004	14	Article; Article		
J	Mueller, Lisa; Gehmaier, Josef; Gonaus, Christoph; Raschner, Christian; Mueller, Erich								Maturity Status Strongly Influences the Relative Age Effect in International Elite Under-9 Soccer								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				17	2			216	222					JUN 2018	2018	The aim of the study was to assess the role of the relative age effect (RAE) and to investigate the influence of the biological maturity status on the RAE in international under-9 soccer. The birth dates of 222 male participants of the U9 Eurochampionship Soccer Tournament in Vienna in 2016 were analyzed and divided into four relative age quarters (Q1-Q4) and the biological maturity status was assessed with the age at peak height velocity (APHV) method. Based on the mean +/- standard deviation of the APHV, the athletes were divided into three groups of maturity: early, normal and late maturing. Chi-Square-tests were used to assess the difference between the observed and the expected even relative age quarter distribution and to evaluate the difference between the observed distribution of early, normal and late maturing athletes and the expected normal distribution. A univariate analysis of variance was performed to assess differences in the APHV between the relative age quarters. A RAE was present (chi(2) = 23.87; p < 0.001; omega = 0.33). A significant difference was found in APHV between the four relative age quarters (F = 9.906; p < 0.001); relatively older athletes were significantly less mature. A significant difference was found between the distribution of early, normal and late maturing athletes and the expected normal distribution for athletes of Q1 (high percentage of late maturing athletes: 27%; chi(2) = 17.69; p < 0.001; omega = 0.46) and of Q4 (high percentage of early maturing soccer players: 31%; chi(2) = 12.08; p = 0.002; omega = 0.58). These findings demonstrated that the selection process in international soccer, with athletes younger than 9 years, seems to be associated with the biological maturity status and the relative age. Relatively younger soccer players seem to have a better chance for selection for international tournaments, if they enter puberty at an earlier age, whereas relatively older athletes seem to have an increased likelihood for selection independent of their biological maturity status.		[Mueller, Lisa; Raschner, Christian] Univ Innsbruck, Dept Sport Sci, Fuerstenweg 185, A-6020 Innsbruck, Tyrol, Austria; [Gehmaier, Josef; Gonaus, Christoph; Mueller, Erich] Univ Salzburg, Dept Sport Sci & Kinesiol, Salzburg, Austria; [Mueller, Lisa] Univ Innsbruck, Dept Sport Sci, Fuerstenweg 185, A-6020 Innsbruck, Tyrol, Austria								30							Sport Sciences	WOS:000432210300007	28	Article; Article		
J	Juhasz, Imre; Kopkane, Judit Plachy; Hajdu, Pal; Szalay, Gabor; Kopper, Bence; Tihanyi, Jozsef								Creatine Supplementation Supports the Rehabilitation of Adolescent Fin Swimmers in Tendon Overuse Injury Cases								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				17	2			279	288					JUN 2018	2018	Our purpose was to investigate the effect of creatine (Cr) supplementation on regeneration periods in tendon overuse injury rehabilitation of adolescent fin swimmers. The participants of this study were injured adolescent competitive fin swimmers (n = 18). The subjects were randomly assigned the creatine (CR) or placebo (PL) groups with a double-blind research design. The subjects were given Cr supplementation or received the placebo as part of the conservative treatment of the tendinopathy. We measured the segmental lean mass (SLM;kg), the ankle plantar flexion peak torque (PFT;N.m), the pain intensity (NRS;values), prior to immobilization, after immobilization (R2) and after the 2nd (R4) and 4th (R6) weeks of the rehabilitation period of the injured limb. The creatine kinase (CK; U/L) enzyme levels were measured before immobilization, and then every 24 hours for four days. There was a significant decrease in SLM (CR by 5.6% vs. PL by 8.9%; p < 0.03) after two weeks of immobilization in both groups (p < 0.001). After four weeks rehabilitation the SLM significantly increased in both groups (CR by 5.5% vs. PL by 3.8%; p < 0.01). The percent changes in PFT after supplementation in R4 (p < 0.001) and R6 (p < 0.03) were significantly different between groups. There was a significant percent increase measured in the CR group (R4 by 10.4%; p < 0.001; R6 by 16.8%; p < 0.001), whereas significant, but lower growth found in the PL group also took place (R4 by 7.1%; p < 0.001; R6 by 14.7%; p < 0.001) after four weeks of rehabilitation. Significantly faster decrease were found in NRS of CR versus PL group during treatment (p < 0.02). We detected significantly lower CK levels increase at the CR group compared to the PL group. The results of this study indicate that Cr supplementation combined with therapeutic strategy effectively supports the rehabilitation of tendon overuse injury of adolescent fin swimmers.		[Juhasz, Imre] Univ Phys Educ, Sch Doctoral Studies, Budapest, Hungary; [Kopkane, Judit Plachy] Univ Miskolc, Fac Hlth Care, Miskolc, Hungary; [Hajdu, Pal; Szalay, Gabor] Eszterhazy Karoly Univ Appl Sci, Inst Sport Sci, Eger, Hungary; [Kopper, Bence; Tihanyi, Jozsef] Univ Phys Educ, Dept Biomech, Budapest, Hungary; [Juhasz, Imre] Univ Phys Educ, Sch Doctoral Studies, Budapest, Hungary								16							Sport Sciences	WOS:000432210300014	48	Article; Article		
J	Troester, Jordan C.; Jasmin, Jason G.; Duffield, Rob								Reliability of Single-Leg Balance and Landing Tests in Rugby Union; Prospect of Using Postural Control to Monitor Fatigue								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				17	2			174	180					JUN 2018	2018	The present study examined the inter-trial (within test) and intertest (between test) reliability of single-leg balance and single-leg landing measures performed on a force plate in professional rugby union players using commercially available software (SpartaMARS, Menlo Park, USA). Twenty-four players undertook test - re-test measures on two occasions (7 days apart) on the first training day of two respective pre-season weeks following 48h rest and similar weekly training loads. Two 20s single-leg balance trials were performed on a force plate with eyes closed. Three single-leg landing trials were performed by jumping off two feet and landing on one foot in the middle of a force plate 1m from the starting position. Single-leg balance results demonstrated acceptable inter-trial reliability (ICC = 0.60-0.81, CV = 11-13%) for sway velocity, anterior-posterior sway velocity, and mediolateral sway velocity variables. Acceptable inter-test reliability (ICC = 0.61-0.89, CV = 7-13%) was evident for all variables except mediolateral sway velocity on the dominant leg (ICC = 0.41, CV = 15%). Single-leg landing results only demonstrated acceptable inter-trial reliability for force based measures of relative peak landing force and impulse (ICC = 0.54-0.72, CV = 9-15%). Inter-test results indicate improved reliability through the averaging of three trials with force based measures again demonstrating acceptable reliability (ICC = 0.58-0.71, CV = 7-14%). Of the variables investigated here, total sway velocity and relative landing impulse are the most reliable measures of single-leg balance and landing performance, respectively. These measures should be considered for monitoring potential changes in postural control in professional rugby union.		[Troester, Jordan C.; Jasmin, Jason G.] NSW Waratahs Rugby, High Performance Dept, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Troester, Jordan C.; Jasmin, Jason G.; Duffield, Rob] Univ Technol Sydney, Sport & Exercise Discipline Grp, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Troester, Jordan C.] NSW Waratahs Rugby, High Performance Dept, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Troester, Jordan C.] Univ Technol Sydney, Sport & Exercise Discipline Grp, Sydney, NSW, Australia								31							Sport Sciences	WOS:000432210300002	36	Article; Article		
J	Balk, Yannick A.; De Jonge, Jan; Oerlemans, Wido G. M.; Geurts, Sabine A. E.; Fletcher, David; Dormann, Christian								Balancing Demands and Resources in Sport: Adaptation and Validation of the Demand-Induced Strain Compensation Questionnaire for Use in Sport								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				17	2			237	244					JUN 2018	2018	Too high demands, combined with a lack of resources, are often detrimental to athletic health and well-being. However, a valid and reliable instrument to investigate different dimensions of demands and resources in sport is currently unavailable. Therefore, the present study examines the psychometric properties of an existing and well-validated survey instrument on demands and resources at task-level that was adapted to sport. This instrument, the Demand-Induced Strain Compensation Questionnaire for Sport (DISQ-SPORT), was empirically tested among 1,101 athletes (416 females and 685 males) from a variety of sports and in different languages. Results supported the proposed six-factor structure of the instrument, consisting of physical, cognitive, and emotional demands and resources. Internal consistencies of all subscales were satisfactory and the instrument was invariant across type of sport, competitive level and language. Continued evaluation of the psychometric properties of the DISQ-SPORT, especially in terms of content validity and test-retest stability, is nevertheless warranted. Theoretical and practical implications as well as areas for future research are discussed.		[Balk, Yannick A.; De Jonge, Jan; Oerlemans, Wido G. M.] Eindhoven Univ Technol, Eindhoven, Netherlands; [De Jonge, Jan; Dormann, Christian] Univ South Australia, Adelaide, SA, Australia; [Oerlemans, Wido G. M.] HumanTotalCare, Utrecht, Netherlands; [Geurts, Sabine A. E.] Radboud Univ Nijmegen, Behav Sci Inst, Nijmegen, Netherlands; [Fletcher, David] Loughborough Univ, Loughborough, Leics, England; [Dormann, Christian] Johannes Gutenberg Univ Mainz, Mainz, Germany; [Balk, Yannick A.] Eindhoven Univ Technol, Dept Ind Engn & Innovat Sci, Human Performance Management Grp, Eindhoven, Netherlands								23							Sport Sciences	WOS:000432210300010	54	Article; Article		
J	Lin, Hsin-Shih; Wang, Ho-Seng; Chiu, Hung-Ta; Cheng, Kuang-You B.; Hsu, Ar-Tyan; Huang, Tsang-Hai								Structural and Biomechanical Adaptations to Free-Fall Landing in Hindlimb Cortical Bone of Growing Female Rats								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				17	2			188	196					JUN 2018	2018	The purpose of the study was to investigate the adaptation process of hindlimb cortical bone subjected to free-fall landing training. Female Wistar rats (7 weeks old) were randomly assigned to four landing (L) groups and four age-matched control (C) groups (n = 12 per group): L1, L2, L4 L8, C1, C2, C4 and C8. Animals in the L1, L2, L4 and L8 groups were respectively subjected to 1, 2, 4 and 8 weeks of free-fall-landing training (40 cm height, 30 times/day and 5 days/week) while the C1, C2, C4 and C8 groups served as age-matched control groups. The tibiae of the L8 group were higher in cortical bone mineral content (BMC) than those in the C8 group (p < 0.05). Except for the higher bone mineralization over bone surface ratio (MS/BS, %) shown in the tibiae of the L1 group (p < 0.05), dynamic histomorphometry in the tibial and femoral cortical bone showed no difference between landing groups and their age-matched control groups. In the femora, the L1 group was lower than the C1 group in cortical bone area (Ct.Ar) and cortical thickness (Ct.Th) (p < 0.05); however, the L4 group was higher than the C4 group in Ct. Ar and Ct. Th (p < 0.05). In the tibiae, the moment of inertia about the antero-posterior axis (Iap), Ct. Ar and Ct. Th was significantly higher in the L8 group than in the C8 group (p < 0.05). In biomechanical testing, fracture load (FL) of femora was lower in the L1 group than in the C1 group (p < 0.05). Conversely, yield load (YL), FL and yield load energy (YE) of femora, as well as FL of tibiae were all significantly higher in the L8 group than in the C8 group (p < 0.05). Free-fall landing training may initially compromise bone material. However, over time, the current free-fall landing training induced improvements in biomechanical properties and/or the structure of growing bones.		[Lin, Hsin-Shih; Chiu, Hung-Ta; Cheng, Kuang-You B.; Huang, Tsang-Hai] Natl Cheng Kung Univ, Inst Phys Educ Hlth & Leisure Studies, Tainan, Taiwan; [Lin, Hsin-Shih; Wang, Ho-Seng] Natl Taiwan Normal Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Taipei, Taiwan; [Hsu, Ar-Tyan] Natl Cheng Kung Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Tainan, Taiwan; [Huang, Tsang-Hai] Natl Cheng Kung Univ, Inst Phys Educ Hlth & Leisure Studies, Tainan, Taiwan								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:000432210300004	46	Article; Article		
J	Vandebroek, Tom P.; McCann, Brian T.; Vroom, Govert								Modeling the Effects of Psychological Pressure on First-Mover Advantage in Competitive Interactions: The Case of Penalty Shoot-Outs								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				19	5			725	754		10.1177/1527002516672060			JUN 2018	2018	The relationship between psychological pressure and performance outcomes has been studied across a variety of sporting contexts. As an extension and complement to recent empirical studies, we construct a formal model of soccer penalty shoot-outs to determine the links between psychological pressure and first-mover advantage (FMA). Our approach indicates that even seemingly simple competitive interactions may include a rich, complex set of effects. We demonstrate that psychological pressure leads to FMA in shoot-outs; however, we show that this relationship can vary depending on a variety of different factors, such as the nature of the pressure, the magnitude of the pressure, and the specific rules governing the shoot-out. Overall, our work clarifies and extends knowledge of the operation of FMA and of how psychological pressure impacts performance outcomes in competitive interactions.		[Vandebroek, Tom P.; Vroom, Govert] Univ Navarra, IESE Business Sch, Avda Pearson 21, Barcelona 08034, Spain; [McCann, Brian T.] Vanderbilt Univ, Owen Grad Sch Management, Nashville, TN USA; [Vandebroek, Tom P.] Univ Navarra, IESE Business Sch, Avda Pearson 21, Barcelona 08034, Spain								22							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000432094100006	36	Article; Article		
J	Treber, Jaret; Mulcahy, Lawrence; Sharma, Manjul Bhusal								Empty Seats or Empty Threats? Examining the Effects of the 1994-1995 and 2004-2005 Lockouts on Attendance and Revenue in the National Hockey League								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				19	5			677	695		10.1177/1527002516672058			JUN 2018	2018	Labor-related work stoppages in professional sports have the potential to alienate fansbut whether they generate sustained reductions in demand remains an open question. Existing evidence generally indicates work stoppages may negatively impact attendance but only for a short period of time. Focusing on the 1994, 2004, and 2012 lockouts in the National Hockey League, this article finds evidence consistent with sustained decreases in attendance following the 1994-1995 lockout and revenue following the 2004-2005 and 2012-2013 lockouts. Back-of-the-envelope estimates suggest work stoppages may still be optimal even if there is a sustained negative impact on fan demand.		[Treber, Jaret] Kenyon Coll, Dept Econ, Gambier, OH 43022 USA; [Mulcahy, Lawrence] Ernst & Young LLP, Cincinnati, OH USA; [Sharma, Manjul Bhusal] Morningstar Inc, Chicago, IL USA; [Treber, Jaret] Kenyon Coll, 202 Coll Pk St, Gambier, OH 43022 USA								9							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000432094100004	23	Article; Article		
J	Murray, Thomas J.								Examining the Relationship Between Scheduling and the Outcomes of Regular Season Games in the National Football League								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				19	5			696	724		10.1177/1527002516672059			JUN 2018	2018	Nontraditional scheduling in the National Football League (NFL) has created variation in the rest/preparation time among opponents. Using data from the 2011 to 2015 NFL seasons, regression analysis examines the impact of differential rest and preparation periods among teams on the probability of the home team winning and on the number of points scored in a particular contest. Results show that the probability of winning a game for the home team and the total number of points scored in a game are impacted by different rest combinations between opponents. These impacts are sensitive to the familiarity among opponents and the travel patterns of the visiting team.		[Murray, Thomas J.] Fairfield Univ, Dept Econ, 1073 N Benson Rd, Fairfield, CT 06824 USA; [Murray, Thomas J.] Fairfield Univ, Dept Econ, 1073 N Benson Rd, Fairfield, CT 06824 USA								10							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000432094100005	21	Article; Article		
J	Lehnert, Michal; Croix, Mark De Ste; Xaverova, Zuzana; Botek, Michal; Varekova, Renata; Zaatar, Amr; Lastovicka, Ondrej; Stastny, Petr								Changes in Injury Risk Mechanisms After Soccer-Specific Fatigue in Male Youth Soccer Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				62	1			33	42		10.1515/hukin-2017-0157			JUN 2018	2018	The aim of this study was to examine the acute effects of soccer specific fatigue on muscular and neuromuscular function in male youth soccer players. Elite soccer players (n = 20; age 15.7 +/- 0.5 y; body height 177.75 +/- 6.61 cm; body mass 67.28 +/- 8.29 kg) were measured before and after soccer specific exercise (SAFT(90)). The reactive strength index (RSI) was determined by a drop jump test, leg stiffness (LS) by a 20 sub-maximal two-legged hopping test, and a functional hamstring to quadriceps strength ratio from isokinetic concentric and eccentric strength of the dominant and non-dominant leg (measured at angular velocities of 1.05 rad . s(-1) and 3.14 rad . s(-1)). Metabolic response to the SAFT(90) was determined by blood lactate and perceived exertion was assessed by the Borg scale. After simulated match play, a significant decrease in absolute LS (t = 4.411; p < 0.001; omega(2) = 0.48) and relative LS (t = 4.326; p < 0.001; omega(2) = 0.49) was observed and the RSI increased significantly (t = 3.806; p = 0.001; omega(2) = 0.40). A reduction in LS found after the SAFT(90) indicates possible reduction in dynamic knee stabilization. However, if we consider the changes in other observed variables, the present study did not clearly confirm that fatigue induced by a soccer specific protocol increased the risk of ACL and hamstring injury. This may be attributed to the simulated rather than actual match play used in the present study.		[Lehnert, Michal; Xaverova, Zuzana; Botek, Michal; Varekova, Renata; Zaatar, Amr; Lastovicka, Ondrej] Palacky Univ, Fac Phys Culture, Dept Sport, Olomouc, Czech Republic; [Croix, Mark De Ste] Univ Gloucestershire, Exercise & Sport Res Ctr, Sch Sport & Exercise, Gloucester, England; [Stastny, Petr] Charles Univ Prague, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Dept Sport Games, Prague, Czech Republic; [Stastny, Petr] Charles Univ Prague, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Jose Martiho 31, Prague 16252 6, Czech Republic								31							Sport Sciences	WOS:000435204200004	54	Article; Article		
J	Tierney, Gregory J.; Simms, Ciaran K.								Can tackle height influence tackle gainline success outcomes in elite level rugby union?								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	3			415	420		10.1177/1747954117751345			JUN 2018	2018	In rugby union, effective defensive play is highly technical and essential for game outcomes. Therefore, the aim of this study was to identify tackle heights, for given tackle types, that had a greater propensity to result in tackle gainline success for the tackler using match video evidence. The results indicated that tackling the upper legs of the ball carrier had a greater propensity to result in tackler success for both front-on (OR = 3.27; 95% CI = 1.34-7.95; p < 0.01) and side-on (OR = 5.31; 95% CI = 2.08-13.6; p < 0.01) arm tackles. For shoulder tackles, tackling at the lower trunk for front-on tackles (OR = 1.70; 95% CI = 1.04-2.79; p = 0.03) and the mid trunk for side-on tackles (OR = 3.11; 95% CI = 1.31-7.37; p < 0.01) had a greater propensity to result in tackler success. For smother tackles, tackling at the mid trunk had a greater propensity to result in tackler success during front-on (OR = 3.49; 95% CI = 1.81-6.74; p < 0.01) and side-on (OR = 5.11; 95% CI = 2.42-10.8; p < 0.01) tackles. The results highlight the importance of tackle height when coaching the tackle. The findings also suggest that technically proficient players can advance to more challenging contact techniques than aiming for the ball carrier's centre of gravity.		[Tierney, Gregory J.; Simms, Ciaran K.] Trinity Coll Dublin, Trinity Ctr Bioengn, Dublin, Ireland; [Tierney, Gregory J.] Trinity Coll Dublin, Trinity Ctr Bioengn, Dublin, Ireland								19							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000434391200021	36	Article; Article		
J	Rey, Ezequiel; Padron-Cabo, Alexis; Barcala-Furelos, Roberto; Casamichana, David; Romo-Perez, Vicente								Practical Active and Passive Recovery Strategies for Soccer Players								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				40	3			45	57		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000247			JUN 2018	2018	As a result of training and competition load in soccer, the majority of the body's physiological systems are stressed. To accelerate the recovery process and enhance performance in soccer, different postexercise recovery modes have been suggested and are broadly classified into 2 categories: active recovery or passive recovery. Despite the popularity, there is a lack of scientific evidence for the validity of these recovery interventions. This review summarizes the evidence base for using active recovery, cold water immersion, whole-body vibration, neuromuscular electrical stimulation, and compression garments, as exercise recovery aids in soccer, and where possible, provides practical recommendations regarding usage.		[Rey, Ezequiel; Padron-Cabo, Alexis; Romo-Perez, Vicente] Univ Vigo, Fac Educ & Sports Sci, Pontevedra, Spain; [Barcala-Furelos, Roberto] Univ Vigo, Fac Educ & Sports Sci, Res Grp REMOSS, Pontevedra, Spain; [Casamichana, David] European Univ Atlantic, Dept Hlth & Food, Santander, Spain; [Rey, Ezequiel] Univ Vigo, Fac Educ & Sports Sci, Pontevedra, Spain								25							Sport Sciences	WOS:000440257100006	78	Article; Article		
J	Turner, Catherine; Crow, Sarah; Crowther, Thomas; Keating, Brittany; Saupan, Trenton; Pyfer, Jason; Vialpando, Kimberly; Lee, Szu-Ping								Preventing non-contact ACL injuries in female athletes: What can we learn from dancers?<SUP>1</SUP>*								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				31				1	8		10.1016/j.ptsp.2017.12.002			MAY 2018	2018	To investigate the effects of dance experience and movement instruction on lower extremity kinematics and muscle activation during a landing task. Design: Cross-sectional case control. Setting: Laboratory setting. Participants: 27 female subjects (age 18-25) in 2 groups: dancers (n = 12) and non-dancers (n = 15). Main outcome measures: Lower extremity biomechanics during drop landing were analyzed. Subjects performed drop landings after watching an instructional video without verbal instructions (NI), followed by repeat assessment after watching the same videos with specific verbal instructions (VI). Surface electromyography (EMG) was used to measure the activation of gluteus maximus and medius during the deceleration phase of landings. Peak knee and hip frontal plane angles during landing were acquired using a 3-D motion capture system. Results: Compared to non-dancers, dancers demonstrated generally greater gluteus maximus activation and a decreased knee abduction (i.e. valgus) angle during drop landing. A significant interaction showed that instruction led to increased knee valgus angle in non-dancers but not dancers (p = .014). Conclusions: Our findings suggest that experienced dancers demonstrate safer landing strategies compared to recreational athletes. Providing acute movement instruction was shown to disrupt the landing mechanics in those with no dance training experience. (c) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Turner, Catherine; Crow, Sarah; Crowther, Thomas; Keating, Brittany; Saupan, Trenton; Pyfer, Jason; Vialpando, Kimberly; Lee, Szu-Ping] Univ Nevada, Dept Phys Therapy, 4505 S Maryland Pkwy,Box 453029, Las Vegas, NV 89154 USA; [Lee, Szu-Ping] Univ Nevada, Dept Phys Therapy, 4505 S Maryland Pkwy,Box 453029, Las Vegas, NV 89154 USA								21							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000432880000002	55	Article; Article		
J	Gropper, Catherine C.; Anderson, Benjamin C.								Sellout, Blackout, or Get Out: The Impacts of the 2012 Policy Change on TV Blackouts and Attendance in the NFL								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				19	4			522	561		10.1177/1527002516661600			MAY 2018	2018	Prior to the 2012-2013 season, National Football League franchises had the option to significantly adjust their TV blackout policies for the first time since 1973. Using data from team policy choices and local TV blackouts during the 2007-2008 to 2014-2015 seasons, we examine whether the policy change was effective in reducing the probability of blackouts or affected attendance. Controlling for team fixed effects, we find no evidence that policy-adopting teams experienced significantly fewer blackouts or a change in attendance following the policy implementation. Our analysis sheds light on the economic factors that are correlated with local TV blackouts and game attendance.		[Gropper, Catherine C.] NBCUniversal, New York, NY USA; [Anderson, Benjamin C.] Colgate Univ, Dept Econ, 13 Oak Dr, Hamilton, NY 13346 USA; [Anderson, Benjamin C.] Colgate Univ, Dept Econ, 13 Oak Dr, Hamilton, NY 13346 USA								6							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000429886000004	36	Article; Article		
J	Ponzo, Michela; Scoppa, Vincenzo								Does the Home Advantage Depend on Crowd Support? Evidence From Same-Stadium Derbies								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				19	4			562	582		10.1177/1527002516665794			MAY 2018	2018	We investigate to what extent crowd support contributes to the home advantage in soccer, disentangling this effect from other mechanisms such as players' familiarity with the stadium and travel fatigue. To evaluate the relevance of crowd support in determining home advantage, we analyze same-stadium derbies (matches among teams that share the same stadium), in which teams enjoy different levels of support from the crowdthe home team has many more supporters mainly because of season ticket holderswhile teams do not differ in terms of travel fatigue or familiarity with the stadium. Our estimation results suggest the existence of a sizable crowd support's effect on the home advantage generated through the encouragement of players' performance. Furthermore, we find consistent evidence that the support of the crowd tends to bias referee's decisions (in terms of penalties, red cards, and yellow cards) in favor of the home team.		[Ponzo, Michela] Univ Naples Federico II, Dept Econ & Stat, Naples, Italy; [Scoppa, Vincenzo] Univ Calabria, Dept Econ Stat & Finance, Via Ponte Bucci, I-87036 Arcavacata Di Rende, Italy; [Scoppa, Vincenzo] Inst Study Lab IZA, Bonn, Germany; [Scoppa, Vincenzo] Univ Calabria, Dept Econ Stat & Finance, Via Ponte Bucci, I-87036 Arcavacata Di Rende, Italy								104							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000429886000005	28	Article; Article		
J	Pawlowski, Tim; Schuettoff, Ute; Downward, Paul; Lechner, Michael								Can Sport Really Help to Meet the Millennium Development Goals? Evidence From Children in Peru								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				19	4			498	521		10.1177/1527002516661601			MAY 2018	2018	In contrast to the popular policy claim that sport might serve as vehicle to meet the Millennium Development Goals, empirical evidence based on large-scale survey data is largely missing. We use panel data based on a cohort of children and employ propensity score matching to identify the effects of sports participation on child development in Peru. Our findings suggest that participation in a sports group has positive impacts on subjective health and a measure of social capital. However, and in contrast to developed countries, we find no statistically significant effects on well-being and human capital formation.		[Pawlowski, Tim; Schuettoff, Ute] Univ Tubingen, Wilhelmstr 124, D-72074 Tubingen, Germany; [Downward, Paul] Loughborough Univ Technol, Loughborough, Leics, England; [Lechner, Michael] Univ St Gallen, St Gallen, Switzerland; [Lechner, Michael] CEPR, London, England; [Lechner, Michael] PSI, London, England; [Lechner, Michael] CESIfo, Munich, Germany; [Lechner, Michael] IAB, Nurnberg, Germany; [Lechner, Michael] IZA, Bonn, Germany; [Pawlowski, Tim] Univ Tubingen, Wilhelmstr 124, D-72074 Tubingen, Germany								18							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000429886000003	55	Article; Article		
J	Bronner, Shaw; Bauer, Naomi G.								Risk factors for musculoskeletal injury in elite pre-professional modern dancers: A prospective cohort prognostic study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				31				42	51		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.01.008			MAY 2018	2018	Objectives: To examine risk factors for injury in pre-professional modern dancers. Design: With prospectively designed screening and injury surveillance, we evaluated four risk factors as categorical predictors of injury: i) hypermobility; ii) dance technique motor-control; iii) muscle tightness; iv) previous injury. Screening and injury data of 180 students enrolled in a university modern dance program were reviewed over 4-yrs of training. Dancers were divided into 3-groups based on predictor scores. Dance exposure was based on hours of technique classes/wk. Negative binomial log-linear analyses were conducted with the four predictors, p < 0.05. Results: Dancers with low and high Beighton scores were 1.43 and 1.22 times more likely to sustain injury than dancers with mid-range scores (p <= 0.03). Dancers with better technique (low or medium scores) were 0.86 and 0.63 times less likely to sustain injury (p = 0.013 and p < 0.001) compared to those with poor technique. Dancers with one or 2-4 tight muscles were 2.7 and 4.0 times more likely to sustain injury (p <= 0.046). Dancers who sustained 2-4 injuries in the previous year were 1.38 times more likely to sustain subsequent injury (p < 0.001). Conclusions: This contributes new information on the value of preseason screening. Dancers with these risk factors may benefit from prevention programs. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Bronner, Shaw; Bauer, Naomi G.] ADAM Ctr, 322 W 52 St 199, New York, NY 10101 USA; [Bronner, Shaw] Alvin Ailey Amer Dance Theater, New York, NY USA; [Bauer, Naomi G.] Duke Univ Hlth Syst, Dept Phys & Occupat Therapy, Durham, NC USA; [Bronner, Shaw] ADAM Ctr, 322 W 52 St 199, New York, NY 10101 USA								52							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000432880000008	88	Article; Article		
J	Alfuth, Martin; Gomoll, Markus								Electromyographic analysis of balance exercises in single-leg stance using different instability modalities of the forefoot and rearfoot								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				31				75	82		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.01.002			MAY 2018	2018	Purpose: To investigate the activity of lower extremity muscles in response to single-leg stance on a training device, destabilizing the forefoot while the rearfoot stands on a fixed plate and vice versa compared with a balance pad and the floor. Design: Cross-sectional study. Setting: University's laboratory. Participants: Twenty-seven healthy adults. Methods: Surface electromyography and 2D video analysis were used to record the activity of lower extremity muscles and to control sagittal knee joint angle during single-leg stance trials under one stable control condition and five unstable conditions. Results: The majority of lower extremity muscles were significantly more active when the forefoot was destabilized while the rearfoot remained stable compared with the stable condition and the conditions where the forefoot was stable and the rearfoot unstable (p < 0.001). Mean change of knee joint angle was significantly increased under the conditions rearfoot stable/forefoot unstable (p = 0.001). The soleus muscle activation was significantly increased when balancing on the balance pad (p < 0.001). Conclusions: Increased activity in the majority of lower extremity muscles and sagittal knee joint angles indicate that destabilizing the forefoot while the rearfoot remains stable is the most challenging balance task. Soleus muscle activation increased when performing ankle plantarflexion on the soft balance pad. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Alfuth, Martin] Niederrhein Univ Appl Sci, Fac Hlth Care, Therapeut Sci, Reinarzstr 49, D-47805 Krefeld, Germany; [Gomoll, Markus] German Sport Univ Cologne, Dept Further Educ, Sportpk Mungersdorf 6, D-50933 Cologne, Germany; [Alfuth, Martin] Niederrhein Univ Appl Sci, Fac Hlth Care, Therapeut Sci, Reinarzstr 49, D-47805 Krefeld, Germany								11							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000432880000012	45	Article; Article		
J	Armstrong, Ross; Greig, Matt								The Functional Movement Screen and modified Star Excursion Balance Test as predictors of T-test agility performance in university rugby union and netball players								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				31				15	21		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.01.003			MAY 2018	2018	Objectives: Agility is a functional requirement of many sports, challenging stability, and commonly cited as a mechanism of injury. The Functional Movement Screen (FMS) and modified Star Excursion Balance Test (mSEBT) have equivocally been associated with agility performance. The aim of the current study was to establish a hierarchical ordering of FMS and mSEBT elements in predicting T-test agility performance. Design: Cross-sectional study design. Setting: University. Participants: Thirty-two female rugby players, 31 male rugby players and 39 female netballers Main Outcome Measures: FMS, mSEBT, T-test performance Results: The predictive potential of composite FMS and mSEBT scores were weaker than when discrete elements were considered. FMS elements were better predictors of T-test performance in rugby players, whilst mSEBT elements better predicted performance in netballers. Hierarchical modelling highlighted the in-line lunge (ILL) as the primary FMS predictor, whereas mSEBT ordering was limb and sport dependent. Conclusions: The relationship between musculoskeletal screening tools and agility performance was sport-specific. Discrete element scores are advocated over composite scores, and hierarchical ordering of tests might highlight redundancy in screening. The prominence of the ILL in hierarchical modelling might reflect the functional demands of the T-test. Sport-specificity and limb dominance influence hierarchical ordering of musculoskeletal screens. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Armstrong, Ross; Greig, Matt] Edge Hill Univ, Sports Injuries Res Grp, Dept Sport & Phys Act, Ormskirk L39 4QP, Lancs, England; [Armstrong, Ross] Edge Hill Univ, Sports Injuries Res Grp, Dept Sport & Phys Act, Ormskirk L39 4QP, Lancs, England								24							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000432880000004	23	Article; Article		
J	Rabin, Alon; Einstein, Ofira; Kozol, Zvi								The association of visually-assessed quality of movement during jump-landing with ankle dorsiflexion range-of-motion and hip abductor muscle strength among healthy female athletes								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				31				35	41		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.01.004			MAY 2018	2018	Objective: To explore the association between ankle dorsiflexion (DF) range of motion (ROM), and hip abductor muscle strength, to visually-assessed quality of movement during jump-landing. Design: Cross-sectional. Setting: Gymnasium of participating teams. Participants: 37 female volleyball players. Main outcome measures: Quality of movement in the frontal-plane, sagittal-plane, and overall (both planes) was visually rated as "good/moderate" or "poor". Weight-bearing Ankle DF ROM and hip abductor muscle strength were compared between participants with differing quality of movement. Results: Weight-bearing DF ROM on both sides was decreased among participants with "poor" sagittal-lane quality of movement (dominant side: 50.8 degrees 43.6 degrees non-dominant side: 54.6 degrees versus 45.9 degrees, P=.01), as well as among participants with an overall "poor" quality of movement (dominant side: 51.8 degrees versus 44.0 degrees, P <.01; non-dominant side: 56.5 degrees versus 45.1 degrees, P <.01). Weight-bearing ankle DF on the non-dominant side was decreased among participants with a "poor" frontal-plane quality of movement (53.9 degrees versus 46.0 degrees, P=.02). No differences in hip abductor muscle strength were noted between participants with differing quality of movement. Conclusions: Visual assessment of jump-landing can detect differences in quality of movement that are associated with ankle DF ROM. Clinicians observing a poor quality of movement may wish to assess ankle DF ROM. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Rabin, Alon; Einstein, Ofira; Kozol, Zvi] Ariel Univ, Dept Physiotherapy, POB 3, Ariel, Israel; [Rabin, Alon] Ariel Univ, Dept Physiotherapy, POB 3, Ariel, Israel								8							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000432880000007	44	Article; Article		
J	Charlton, Paula C.; Raysmith, Benjamin; Wollin, Martin; Rice, Simon; Purdam, Craig; Clark, Ross A.; Drew, Michael K.								Knee flexion strength is significantly reduced following competition in semi-professional Australian Rules football athletes: Implications for injury prevention programs								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				31				9	14		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.01.001			MAY 2018	2018	Objectives: To evaluate strength and flexibility measures pre- and post- Australian Football (AF) competition to determine their potential utility as secondary prevention measures. Design: Cohort study. Setting: Semi-professional AF club. Participants: Ten male AF athletes (mean +/- SD; age, 21.3 +/- 2.2 years; height, 186.1 +/- 6.3 cm; weight, 83.5 +/- 8.6 kg). Main Outcome Measures: Maximal unilateral isometric knee flexion strength performed in 45 degrees of hip flexion and 30 degrees of knee flexion, flexibility measures of hip and knee extension and ankle dorsiflexion. All outcome measures were evaluated pre-match to determine baseline measurements and repeated acutely post-match and at 26,50 and 74 h following. Comparisons were made between baseline measures and all other time points. Results: Knee flexion strength was significantly reduced at a group level acutely (-122.8N, 95%CI -156.2 to -89.4, p = 0.000) and at 26 h (-89.6N, 95%Cl -122.9 to -56.2, p = 0.000) following competition. Hamstring flexibility was significantly reduced at all time periods following competition (all p < 0.05), however these values were not clinically meaningful. Conclusions: Knowledge that unilateral isometric knee flexion strength returns to pre-competition levels by 50 h following match-play in AF athletes is valuable for planning recovery time frames and may inform implementation of secondary prevention strategies. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Charlton, Paula C.; Raysmith, Benjamin; Wollin, Martin; Purdam, Craig; Drew, Michael K.] AIS, Dept Phys Therapies, Canberra, ACT, Australia; [Rice, Simon] ACTAS, Canberra, ACT, Australia; [Clark, Ross A.] Univ Sunshine Coast, Fac Sci Hlth Engn & Educ, Sch Hlth & Sport Sci, Sippy Downs, Qld, Australia; [Drew, Michael K.] Federat Univ Australia, ACRISP, Ballarat, Vic, Australia; [Charlton, Paula C.] Australian Inst Sport Leverrier Cr, Bruce, ACT 2614, Australia								14							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000432880000003	32	Article; Article		
J	Lee, Young H.								Common Factors in Major League Baseball Game Attendance								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				19	4			583	598		10.1177/1527002516672061			MAY 2018	2018	This article applies a panel data model with observed common factors to Major League Baseball (MLB) data from 1904 to 2012 to analyze attendance. In particular, it aims to identify common factors. The empirical results suggest that MLB fan preferences were simple in the early years (1904-1957) with respect to common factors and then became multifaceted in later years (1958-2012), because the number of significant common factors increased from four to seven. Time trends and per capita gross domestic product were significant over the whole sample period, but outcome uncertainties and offensive performance, such as slugging performance, became newly significant common factors influencing attendance in later years. This indicates that fans consider not only their home team's characteristics but also the characteristics of the away teams; then, in the modern era, it became critical for the league to implement elaborate business measures to promote competitive balance and slugging performance.		[Lee, Young H.] Sogang Univ, Dept Econ, 1 Sinsoo Dong, Seoul 136792, South Korea; [Lee, Young H.] Sogang Univ, Dept Econ, 1 Sinsoo Dong, Seoul 136792, South Korea								17							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000429886000006	12	Article; Article		
J	Tobey, Kelcy; Mike, Jonathan								Single-Leg Glute Bridge								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				40	2			110	114		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000323			APR 2018	2018	The single-leg glute bridge is a variation of the barbell hip thrust that involves unilateral hip extension. Glute bridge exercises are used as a means of strengthening the hip extensors: the gluteal and hamstring muscle groups. In addition to activating the posterior musculature of the hip, single-leg glute bridges require stabilization of both the hip abductors and core muscles through isometric contraction. Because strong gluteal and hamstring muscle groups are imperative in lateral stabilization and explosive linear movement, the single-leg glute bridge is beneficial to the general population and athletes in a variety of sports, such as soccer, football, and rugby.		[Tobey, Kelcy] Lindenwood Univ, Human Performance, St Charles, MO USA; [Mike, Jonathan] Univ Southern Mississippi, Sch Kinesiol, Hattiesburg, MS 39406 USA; [Mike, Jonathan] Univ Southern Mississippi, Sch Kinesiol, Hattiesburg, MS 39406 USA								6							Sport Sciences	WOS:000440256400011	17	Article; Article		
J	Bishop, Chris; Turner, Anthony; Read, Paul								Training Methods and Considerations for Practitioners to Reduce Interlimb Asymmetries								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				40	2			40	46		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000354			APR 2018	2018	Interlimb asymmetries have been a common source of investigation in recent years with most studies highlighting its prevalence in a range of athletic tasks. Few have tested whether reducing interlimb differences is required for improved physical performance. Furthermore, there are a number of considerations that may exist, which practitioners should consider before starting training interventions to reduce these differences. This article will discuss the available body of literature pertaining to the reduction of interlimb asymmetries to date and provide examples of training programs to show how they can be addressed if their reduction is deemed necessary.		[Bishop, Chris] Middlesex Univ, London Sports Inst, London, England; [Turner, Anthony] Middlesex Univ, London Sports Inst, Postgrad Programs Sport, London, England; [Read, Paul] Aspetar Sports Med Hosp, Doha, Qatar; [Bishop, Chris] Middlesex Univ, London Sports Inst, London, England								42							Sport Sciences	WOS:000440256400004	35	Article; Article		
J	Schoenfeld, Brad Jon; Grgic, Jozo								Eccentric Overload Training: A Viable Strategy to Enhance Muscle Hypertrophy?								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				40	2			78	81		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000351			APR 2018	2018	It has been postulated that eccentric actions have the greatest effect on muscle hypertrophy. The potential hypertrophic benefits to eccentric training raise the possibility that muscular growth could be enhanced by supplementing resistance training with eccentric overload training. In this article, we examine whether this strategy is efficacious for enhancing muscle growth.		[Schoenfeld, Brad Jon] Lehman Coll, Dept Hlth Sci, Bronx, NY 10468 USA; [Grgic, Jozo] Victoria Univ, ISEAL, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Schoenfeld, Brad Jon] Lehman Coll, Dept Hlth Sci, Bronx, NY 10468 USA								15							Sport Sciences	WOS:000440256400008	32	Article; Article		
J	Nugent, Frank J.; Comyns, Thomas M.; Warrington, Giles D.								Strength and Conditioning Considerations for Youth Swimmers								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				40	2			31	39		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000368			APR 2018	2018	Youth swimmers, aged 7-13 years, are an athletic population that can benefit from a strength and conditioning (S&C) program which caters for their developmental and sports-specific needs. This article provides considerations for S&C programs for youth swimmers. Practical examples of exercises, movement screens, and programs are provided.		[Nugent, Frank J.; Comyns, Thomas M.; Warrington, Giles D.] Univ Limerick, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Limerick, Ireland; [Nugent, Frank J.] Univ Limerick, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Limerick, Ireland								16							Sport Sciences	WOS:000440256400003	31	Article; Article		
J	Morishita, Shinichiro; Tsubaki, Atsuhiro; Takabayashi, Tomoya; Fu, Jack B.								Relationship Between the Rating of Perceived Exertion Scale and the Load Intensity of Resistance Training								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				40	2			94	109		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000373			APR 2018	2018	Studies have reported that the load intensity of resistance training is related to the rating of perceived exertion scale in healthy subjects. The aim is to evaluate current evidence regarding the relationship between the rating of perceived exertion scale and the load intensity of resistance training.		[Morishita, Shinichiro; Tsubaki, Atsuhiro; Takabayashi, Tomoya] Niigata Univ Hlth & Welf, Inst Human Movement & Med Sci, Niigata, Japan; [Fu, Jack B.] Univ Texas MD Anderson Canc Ctr, Dept Palliat Rehabil & Integrat Med, Houston, TX 77030 USA; [Morishita, Shinichiro] Niigata Univ Hlth & Welf, Inst Human Movement & Med Sci, Niigata, Japan								76							Sport Sciences	WOS:000440256400010	78	Article; Article		
J	Magnusen, Marshall J.; Kim, Jun Woo; McAllister, Charn P.; Perrewe, Pamela L.; Ferris, Gerald R.								She got game: Investigating how reputation can be leveraged to improve recruiting effectiveness in National Collegiate Athletic Association women's basketball								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	2			179	185		10.1177/1747954117725928			APR 2018	2018	Although recruiting processes and outcomes in National Collegiate Athletic Association sports is an incredibly important facet of collegiate athletics, it is underdeveloped in several areas. Gaps in knowledge exist when it comes to better understanding actual recruits obtained, the role of reputation, and what factors may influence the school-choice decision of elite, female student-athletes. Probit analyses examining data from 500 National Collegiate Athletic Association Division I female basketball players, approximately 100 universities, and 20 National Collegiate Athletic Association conferences yield that recruits' decisions are primarily influenced by the total number of Elite 8 teams and national championships from a team's affiliated conference, geographic distance between recruits' hometowns and the university, average arena attendance, and the percentage comparing the basketball arena capacity and game attendance. The results make both theoretical and practical contributions by demonstrating the predictive power of reputation, while also offering recruiters actionable information that potential recruits likely are considering each recruiting cycle.		[Magnusen, Marshall J.] Baylor Univ, Dept Educ Leadership, One Bear Pl 97312, Waco, TX 76798 USA; [Kim, Jun Woo] Arcadia Univ, Sch Global Business, Glenside, PA USA; [McAllister, Charn P.] Northeastern Univ, DAmore McKim Sch Business, Boston, MA 02115 USA; [Perrewe, Pamela L.; Ferris, Gerald R.] Florida State Univ, Dept Management, Tallahassee, FL 32306 USA; [Magnusen, Marshall J.] Baylor Univ, Dept Educ Leadership, One Bear Pl 97312, Waco, TX 76798 USA								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000429847400003	13	Article; Article		
J	Pulido, Juan J.; Sanchez-Oliva, David; Sanchez-Miguel, Pedro A.; Amado, Diana; Garcia-Calvo, Tomas								Sport commitment in young soccer players: A self-determination perspective								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	2			243	252		10.1177/1747954118755443			APR 2018	2018	Objectives Grounded on the self-determination theory, the aim of this study was to assess the impact of perceived need support/thwarting, psychological needs satisfaction/frustration and motivation on young soccer players' sport commitment. Equipment and methods We used a sample of 430 male soccer players (M-age=14.21 years, SD=1.67 years, range=12-18 years). Results Structural equation model analysis ((2)/df=2.31; CFI=0.91, TLI=0.89, GFI=0.91, SRMR=0.03, RMSEA=0.05) showed that coach supporting style positively correlated with players' needs satisfaction, which, in turn positively predicted intrinsic motivation, which, in turn positively predicted sport commitment. On another hand, coach thwarting style positively predicted needs frustration, which positively predicted amotivation, and amotivation negatively predicted sport commitment. Conclusion The coach-created training environment can be crucial for the satisfaction or frustration of the basic psychological needs and, as a consequence, it could play an important role in young soccer players' sport commitment.		[Pulido, Juan J.; Sanchez-Oliva, David; Sanchez-Miguel, Pedro A.; Amado, Diana; Garcia-Calvo, Tomas] Univ Extremadura, Fac Sport Sci, Ave Univ S-N, Caceres 10071, Spain; [Pulido, Juan J.] Univ Extremadura, Fac Sport Sci, Ave Univ S-N, Caceres 10071, Spain								52							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000429847400009	42	Article; Article		
J	Smith, Matthew J.; Figgins, Sean G.; Jewiss, Matthew; Kearney, Philip E.								Investigating inspirational leader communication in an elite team sport context								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	2			213	224		10.1177/1747954117727684			APR 2018	2018	The purpose of this study was to examine how leader communication inspires athletes in a team sport context. Footage of elite rugby coaches and athlete leaders delivering genuine speeches were used as a stimulus. Team sport athletes (n=20) watched this footage and identified which aspects of the communication inspired them. Follow-up interviews were conducted to explore what the participants were inspired by and why. Thematic analyses revealed six main dimensions of what was inspiring within the content of the speech, including showing how the team can be successful, embracing and reinforcing the underdog status, and creating pride and unity within the team. In addition, a number of features of effective delivery were identified, including the tone of voice, fluency of speech, and the way key ideas were emphasised.		[Smith, Matthew J.; Figgins, Sean G.; Jewiss, Matthew; Kearney, Philip E.] Univ Chichester, Inst Sport, Bishop Otter Campus,Coll Lane, Chichester PO19 6PE, W Sussex, England; [Smith, Matthew J.] Univ Chichester, Inst Sport, Bishop Otter Campus,Coll Lane, Chichester PO19 6PE, W Sussex, England								17							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000429847400006	39	Article; Article		
J	Krautmann, Anthony C.								Contract Extensions: The Case of Major League Baseball								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				19	3			299	314		10.1177/1527002516656727			APR 2018	2018	This article is concerned with how contract extensions create incentives that affect the characteristics of compensation of Major League Baseball players. We begin with a description of a number of attributes of the negotiation process. Using a sample of contract extensions, we summarize a number of characteristics of this phenomenon. For example, we show how both sides are made better off as a result of these negotiations and that most extensions take place during the last year of the existing contract. Furthermore, for those players with less than 6 years of service, the new contract typically extends beyond the player's arbitration-eligible years.		[Krautmann, Anthony C.] Depaul Univ, Dept Econ, 1 E Jackson, Chicago, IL 60604 USA; [Krautmann, Anthony C.] Depaul Univ, Dept Econ, 1 E Jackson, Chicago, IL 60604 USA								12							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000429885900001	10	Article; Article		
J	Wilson, John K.; Siegfried, John J.								Who Sits in Australia's Grandstands?								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				19	3			389	397		10.1177/1527002516656728			APR 2018	2018	Numerous sports stadiums in Australia have been renovated or built from scratch in the past two decades, funded in whole or part by public subsidies. This note focuses on one particular group that benefits from subsidiesthose spectators who attend live sporting events. A portion of the benefits from subsidies provided by government are captured as increased consumer surplus by sporting fans. Thus, the income and wealth position of these fans are of interest to those deciding whether to subsidize a facility. On the other side of the equation, the taxes which fund sporting facilities are to a large degree state and local levies, which are mostly regressive, taking a larger portion of the income of lower and middle income than of higher income taxpayers because savings are usually exempt from the relevant taxes. Using data from the Household Expenditure Survey (1988-1989, 2009-2010), we analyze various financial status characteristics of those who pay to attend sporting events in Australia. We find that those who buy tickets to sporting events have higher annual incomes and greater wealth than Australians who do not purchase tickets to sporting events. Hence, while media and policy makers may view such funding as subsidizing working man's recreation, our results suggest that funding of sporting arenas should be assessed through the lens of correcting market failures rather than equity considerations.		[Wilson, John K.] Univ South Australia, Sch Business, Adelaide, SA, Australia; [Siegfried, John J.] Vanderbilt Univ, 221 Kirkland Hall, Nashville, TN 37235 USA; [Wilson, John K.] Univ South Australia, GPO Box 2471, Adelaide, SA 5001, Australia								6							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000429885900005	13	Article; Article		
J	Black, Christopher J.; Till, Kevin; O'Hara, John P.; Davidson, Jason; Jones, Ben								Top secret training data? External training loads of a cup winning English Super League rugby league team								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	2			236	242		10.1177/1747954117711094			APR 2018	2018	This study quantified the field-based external training loads of professional rugby league players using global positioning systems technology across a playing season. Eleven professional rugby league players were monitored during all field-based training activities during the 2014 Super League season. Training sessions undertaken in preseason (n=211 observations), early (n=194 observations), middle (n=171 observations) and late (n=206 observations) phases of the in-season were averaged for each player and used in the analyses. Large reductions in external training loads between preseason and in-season periods were observed. Within season, a decrease in intensity (relative distance, absolute and relative total-HSR) with a limited change in training duration was observed. These data provide a useful reference for coaches working with similar cohorts, while future research should quantify the adequacy of the training loads reported, considering impact on performance and injury.		[Black, Christopher J.; Till, Kevin; O'Hara, John P.; Jones, Ben] Leeds Beckett Univ, Inst Sport Phys Act & Leisure, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England; [Black, Christopher J.; Till, Kevin; Jones, Ben] Yorkshire Carnegie Rugby Union Club, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England; [Till, Kevin; Davidson, Jason; Jones, Ben] Leeds Rhinos Rugby League Club, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England; [Jones, Ben] Rugby Football League, Red Hall, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England; [Jones, Ben] Leeds Beckett Univ, Inst Sport Phys Act & Leisure, Ctr Sports Performance, Headingley Campus,Room 112,Fairfax Hall, Leeds LS6 3QS, W Yorkshire, England								10							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000429847400008	28	Article; Article		
J	Koh, Koon Teck; Lee, Tse Peng; Lim, Shi Hui								The Internet as a source of learning for youth soccer coaches								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	2			278	289		10.1177/1747954117724980			APR 2018	2018	Coaches' knowledge has been widely accepted by researchers to consist of professional knowledge, interpersonal knowledge, and intrapersonal knowledge. This knowledge can be acquired through various learning sources and situations. Given the popularity and accessibility of the Internet, coaches are now offered more options and choices to acquire the knowledge they seek. Unfortunately, little research has been done to explore the Internet as a possible source of coach learning. This study investigated the perceived benefits of using coaching resources from the Internet, types of Internet resources sought by youth soccer coaches, and also how the resources are used to improve their coaching knowledge. Face-to-face interviews were conducted with 10 youth soccer coaches (9 men and 1 woman) who had a minimum of eight years of coaching experience, at least an Asian Football Council B License coaching qualification, and had been using Internet resources for coaching for the past three years. Thematic analysis was employed to analyze the interview transcripts. Results revealed the following: (a) the Internet was favored as a learning source for coaches due to its easy accessibility and time-saving, low cost, and affordance of new ideas; (b) Google, Facebook, YouTube, and Twitter are the common platforms to locate coaching resources, but to discern the credibility of these coaching resources are the biggest challenge faced by coaches; (c) all coaches used the Internet to improve their professional knowledge; and (d) common strategies adopted by coaches include careful screening and selecting the Internet resources that suit the team/athletes, and memorizing and trying them out during coaching sessions. Results are discussed in relation to coach learning literature. Recommendations are also proposed to promote the Internet as an alternative learning platform to complement coach education programs.		[Koh, Koon Teck; Lee, Tse Peng; Lim, Shi Hui] Nanyang Technol Univ, Phys Educ & Sports Sci, 1 Nanyang Walk, Singapore 637616, Singapore; [Koh, Koon Teck] Nanyang Technol Univ, Phys Educ & Sports Sci, 1 Nanyang Walk, Singapore 637616, Singapore								15							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000429847400013	44	Article; Article		
J	LaFave, Daniel; Nelson, Randy; Doherty, Michael								Race and Retention in a Competitive Labor Market: The Role of Historically Black Colleges and Universities in NCAA Basketball								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				19	3			417	451		10.1177/1527002516637650			APR 2018	2018	Between 1994 and 2013, Black head coaches of Division I National Collegiate Athletic Association basketball programs were more likely to be terminated than their White counterparts, adjusting for performance and characteristics of the coach. Controlling for employment at a historically Black college or university, which accounts for approximately a quarter of the Black coaches in our sample, overturns this result. The findings highlight the importance of understanding institutional environments when assessing discrimination in labor market outcomes.		[LaFave, Daniel; Nelson, Randy] Colby Coll, Econ, Waterville, ME 04901 USA; [LaFave, Daniel] Colby Coll, East Asian Studies Program, Waterville, ME 04901 USA; [LaFave, Daniel] Colby Coll, Global Studies Program, Waterville, ME 04901 USA; [Doherty, Michael] Colby Coll, Vars Ice Hockey Team, Waterville, ME 04901 USA; [Nelson, Randy] Colby Coll, 5238 Mayflower Hill, Waterville, ME 04901 USA								2							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000429885900007	32	Article; Article		
J	Humphreys, Brad R.; Johnson, Bruce K.; Mason, Daniel S.; Whitehead, John C.								Estimating the Value of Medal Success in the Olympic Games								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				19	3			398	416		10.1177/1527002515626221			APR 2018	2018	We estimate Canadians' willingness to pay (WTP) for medals won by Team Canada in the 2010 Winter Olympic Games using data from contingent valuation method (CVM) surveys of nationally representative samples conducted before and after the Games. The results permit an assessment of Own the Podium, a government program designed to increase Canada's medal count. International prestige and national pride are important determinants of WTP. The results are sensitive to cost and scope, respondents' beliefs about the effectiveness of the program, as measured by expected medal count. WTP estimates suggest that Own the Podium generated benefits above its cost to a degree unique in the growing literature of sport CVM studies.		[Humphreys, Brad R.] West Virginia Univ, Dept Econ, Morgantown, WV USA; [Johnson, Bruce K.] Ctr Coll Danville, Econ, Danville, KY USA; [Mason, Daniel S.] Univ Alberta, Fac Phys Educ & Recreat, Edmonton, AB, Canada; [Whitehead, John C.] Appalachian State Univ, Dept Econ, 416 Howard St, Boone, NC 28608 USA; [Whitehead, John C.] Appalachian State Univ, Dept Econ, 416 Howard St, Boone, NC 28608 USA								41							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000429885900006	25	Article; Article		
J	Fransson, Dan; Vigh-Larsen, Jeppe Foged; Fatouros, Ioannis G.; Krustrup, Peter; Mohr, Magni								Fatigue Responses in Various Muscle Groups in Well-Trained Competitive Male Players after a Simulated Soccer Game								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				61	1			85	97		10.1515/hukin-2017-0129			MAR 2018	2018	We examined the degree of post-game fatigue and the recovery pattern in various leg and upper-body muscle groups after a simulated soccer game. Well-trained competitive male soccer players (n = 12) participated in the study. The players completed the Copenhagen Soccer Test, a 2 x 45 min simulated soccer protocol, following baseline measures of maximal voluntary contractions of multiple muscle groups and systemic markers of muscle damage and inflammation at 0, 24 and 48 h into recovery. All muscle groups had a strength decrement (p <= 0.05) at 0 h post-match with knee flexors (14 +/- 3%) and hip abductors (6 +/- 1%) demonstrating the largest and smallest impairment. However, 24 h into recovery all individual muscles had recovered. When pooled in specific muscle groups, the trunk muscles and knee joint muscles presented the largest decline 0 h post-match, 11 +/- 2% for both, with the performance decrement still persistent (4 +/- 1%, p <= 0.05) for trunk muscles 24 h into recovery. Large inter-player variations were observed in game-induced fatigue and recovery patterns in the various muscle groups. Markers of muscle damage and inflammation peaked 0 h post-match (myoglobin) and 24 h into recovery (creatine kinase), respectively, but thereafter returned to baseline. Intermittent test performance correlated with creatine kinase activity 24 h after the Copenhagen Soccer Test (r = -0.70; p = 0.02). In conclusion, post-game fatigue is evident in multiple muscle groups with knee flexors showing the greatest performance decrement. Fatigue and recovery patterns vary markedly between muscle groups and players, yet trunk muscles display the slowest recovery.		[Fransson, Dan; Mohr, Magni] Univ Gothenburg, Dept Food & Nutr & Sport Sci, Ctr Hlth & Performance, Gothenburg, Sweden; [Vigh-Larsen, Jeppe Foged] Aarhus Univ, Dept Publ Hlth, Sect Sport Sci, Aarhus, Denmark; [Fatouros, Ioannis G.] Univ Thessaly, Sch Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Karies, Trikala, Greece; [Krustrup, Peter; Mohr, Magni] Univ Southern Denmark, Dept Sports Sci & Clin Biomech, SDU Sport & Hlth Sci Cluster SHSC, Fac Hlth Sci, Odense, Denmark; [Krustrup, Peter] Univ Exeter, Coll Life & Environm Sci, Sport & Hlth Sci, St Lukes Campus, Exeter, Devon, England; [Mohr, Magni] Univ Faroe Isl, Fac Hlth Sci, Ctr Hlth Sci, Jonas Broncks Gota 25,3rd Floor, Torshavn, Faroe Islands, Denmark; [Mohr, Magni] Univ Faroe Isl, Fac Hlth Sci, Ctr Hlth Sci, Jonas Broncks Gota 25,3rd Floor, Torshavn, Faroe Islands, Denmark								31							Sport Sciences	WOS:000428411500008	28	Article; Article		
J	Mkaouer, Bessem; Jemni, Monem; Chaabene, Helmi; Amara, Samiha; Njah, Ahmad; Chtara, Mokhtar								Effect of Two Different Types of Olympic Rotation Order on Cardiovascular and Metabolic Variables in Men's Artistic Gymnastics								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				61	1			179	187		10.1515/hukin-2017-0120			MAR 2018	2018	The rotation sequence-order differs from a gymnast to another according to the draw at the time of the qualifying competitions in men's artistic gymnastics. Only the six best gymnasts start on the floor exercises, the others could start on any of the other five apparatuses. It has been demonstrated that some gymnastics events are physiologically less taxing than others; hence some gymnasts could experience lower and/or higher levels of cardiovascular and metabolic stress compared to others, depending on the apparatus they start with. In this regard, the objective of this investigation was to compare cardiovascular and metabolic variables between two different types of Olympic rotation-order; one began with the floor exercises and the other began with the pommel horse. Six elite male gymnasts took part in this investigation. Heart rates, synchronized with real-time video acquisition, as well as capillary lactate concentration following each apparatus routine were monitored. Cardiovascular and metabolic stresses were significantly higher when gymnasts started their rotation with the pommel horse in all apparatuses except the pommel horse. The floor exercises' score was significantly affected when gymnasts ended up their competition on this apparatus. As a conclusion, starting gymnastics' competition on the floor exercises implicates less cardiovascular and metabolic stress associated with better performance compared with the other rotation order. As a matter of fact, best gymnasts who start on this apparatus could have a slight advantage compared with the other athletes.		[Mkaouer, Bessem; Amara, Samiha; Njah, Ahmad; Chtara, Mokhtar] Manouba Univ, Higher Inst Sport & Phys Educ, Dept Sports & Phys Act, Ksar Said, Tunisia; [Jemni, Monem] Qatar Univ, Dept Sport Sci, Coll Arts & Sci, Doha, Qatar; [Chaabene, Helmi] Natl Ctr Med & Sci Sports CNMSS, Tunisian Res Lab Sports Performance Optimizat, Tunis, Tunisia; [Mkaouer, Bessem] Higher Inst Sport & Phys Educ Ksar Said, Dept Sports & Phys Act, Manouba 2010, Tunisia								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:000428411500016	31	Article; Article		
J	Monteiro, Diogo; Borrego, Carla Chicau; Silva, Carlos; Moutao, Joao; Marinho, Daniel Almeida; Cid, Luis								Motivational Climate Sport Youth Scale: Measurement Invariance Across Gender and Five Different Sports								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				61	1			249	261		10.1515/hukin-2017-0124			MAR 2018	2018	The aim of this study was to analyze the psychometric properties of the Portuguese version of the Motivational Climate Sport Youth Scale (MCSYSp) and invariance across gender and different sports (swimming, soccer, handball, basketball, futsal). A total of 4,569 athletes (3,053 males, 1,516 females) from soccer (1,098), swimming (1,049), basketball (1,754), futsal (340), and handball (328) participated in this study, with ages between 10 and 20 years (M = 15.13; SD = 1.95). The results show that the original model (two factors/12 items) did not adjust to the data in a satisfactory way; therefore, it was necessary to change the model by removing four items (two from each factor). Subsequently, the model adjusted to the data in a satisfactory way (chi(2) = 499.84; df = 19; chi(2)/df = 26.30; p < .001; SRMR = .037; TLI = .923; CFI = .948; RMSEA = .074; IC90% .069-.080) and was invariant by gender and team sports (soccer, handball, basketball, futsal) (Delta CFI <=.01); however, it was not invariant between swimming and team sports (soccer, handball, basketball, futsal) (Delta CFI >=.01). In conclusion, the MCSYSp (two factors/eight items) is a valid and reliable choice that is transversal not only to gender, but also to the different studied team sports to measure the perception of the motivational climate in athletes. Future studies can research more deeply the invariance analysis between individual sports to better understand the invariance of the model between individual and team sports.		[Monteiro, Diogo; Borrego, Carla Chicau; Silva, Carlos; Moutao, Joao; Cid, Luis] IPSantarem, Polytech Inst Santarem ESDRM, Sport Sci Sch Rio Maior, Santarem, Portugal; [Monteiro, Diogo; Moutao, Joao; Marinho, Daniel Almeida; Cid, Luis] Res Ctr Sport Hlth & Human Dev CIDESD, Vila Real, Portugal; [Marinho, Daniel Almeida] UBI, Covilha, Portugal; [Borrego, Carla Chicau; Silva, Carlos] Res Ctr Life Qual CIEQV Santarem, Santarem, Portugal; [Monteiro, Diogo] Sport Sci Sch Rio Maior, Av Dr Mario Soares, P-2040413 Rio Maior, Portugal								18							Sport Sciences	WOS:000428411500023	29	Article; Article		
J	Jastrzebska, Maria; Kaczmarczyk, Mariusz; Michalczyk, Malgorzata; Radziminski, Lukasz; Stepien, Piotr; Jastrzebska, Joanna; Wakuluk, Dorota; Diaz Suarez, Arturo; Lopez Sanchez, Guillermo Felipe; Cieszczyk, Pawel; Godlewski, Piotr; Krol, Pawel; Jastrzebski, Zbigniew								Can Supplementation of Vitamin D Improve Aerobic Capacity in Well Trained Youth Soccer Players?								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				61	1			63	72		10.2478/hukin-2018-0033			MAR 2018	2018	There is no clear evidence that vitamin D effectively improves physical capacity in high-level athletes. The aim of this study was to confirm that vitamin D supplementation of soccer players during eight-week high-intensity training would have a significant effect on their aerobic capacity. The subjects were divided into two groups: the experimental one that was supplemented with vitamin D (SG, n = 20), and the placebo group (PG, n = 16), not supplemented with vitamin D. All the players were subjected to the same soccer training described as High-Intensity Interval Training (HIIT). The data of the vitamin D level, PWC170, lactate threshold (LT) were collected just before and after the intervention. A significant increase in vitamin D concentration (119%) was observed in the supplemented group, while the non-supplemented group showed a decrease of 8.4%. The studied subjects improved VO2max results by 20% in the SG, and by 13% in the PG. The improvement in velocity at the LT was similar in both groups. Results of this study show that vitamin D can have a positive, though moderate, effect on aerobic performance in players subjected to high-intensity training in the form of small-sided games for 8 weeks.		[Jastrzebska, Maria] Univ Clin Ctr Gdansk, Gdansk, Poland; [Stepien, Piotr] Higher Sport Sch Lodz, Lodz, Poland; [Kaczmarczyk, Mariusz] Pomeranian Med Univ, Szczecin, Poland; [Radziminski, Lukasz; Jastrzebski, Zbigniew] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, Fac Tourism & Recreat, Gdansk, Poland; [Diaz Suarez, Arturo; Lopez Sanchez, Guillermo Felipe] Univ Murcia, Fac Sport Sci, Murcia, Spain; [Jastrzebska, Joanna] Med Univ Gdansk, Gdansk, Poland; [Cieszczyk, Pawel] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Fac Phys Educ, Katowice, Poland; [Krol, Pawel] Univ Rzeszow, Rzeszow, Poland; [Michalczyk, Malgorzata] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Dept Sports Nutr, Katowice, Poland; [Wakuluk, Dorota; Cieszczyk, Pawel; Godlewski, Piotr] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, Fac Phys Educ, Gdansk, Poland; [Jastrzebska, Maria] Univ Clin Ctr Gdansk, Ul Debinki 7, PL-80952 Gdansk, Poland								38							Sport Sciences	WOS:000428411500006	37	Article; Article		
J	Cho, Seongkwan; Choi, Hunhyuk; Eklund, Robert C.; Paek, Insu								Validation and Reliability of the Korean Version of the Sport Anxiety Scale-2								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				61	1			217	225		10.1515/hukin-2017-0138			MAR 2018	2018	The main purpose of the present study was to examine the validation and reliability of the Korean version of the Sport Anxiety Scale (SAS-2Kr) by evaluating its factorial invariance across gender. A total of 303 Korean collegiate athletes (198 males and 105 females) from 9 sports participated in the study, and they completed the demographic questionnaire and the SAS-2Kr containing 15 items to measure multidimensional trait anxiety and individual differences in the cognitive and somatic anxiety experienced by athletes. The results of this study indicated that the construct validity in the SAS-2Kr was well established in that the values of the standardized factor loadings, composite reliability, and average variance extracted values were above the recommended cutoff points. The multiple-sample confirmatory factor analyses showed the SAS-2Kr could be generalizable across gender in college samples. The results also indicated that the SAS-2Kr supported the original 3-factor model of SAS-2 in English consisting of somatic anxiety, worry, and concentration disruption, and thus this study provides useful information for researchers to understand the athletes' tendency to experience anxiety reactions in sport situations. Suggestions for future research on competitive trait anxiety are provided in the discussion section.		[Cho, Seongkwan] Texas A&M Int Univ, Dept Curriculum & Pedag, Laredo, TX USA; [Choi, Hunhyuk] Korea Natl Univ Educ, Dept Phys Educ, Cheongju, South Korea; [Eklund, Robert C.] Florida State Univ, Coll Educ, Tallahassee, FL 32306 USA; [Paek, Insu] Florida State Univ, Dept Educ Psychol & Learning Syst, Tallassee, FL USA; [Choi, Hunhyuk] Korea Natl Univ Educ, Dept Phys Educ, Cheongju, South Korea								8							Sport Sciences	WOS:000428411500020	35	Article; Article		
J	Douris, Peter C.; Handrakis, John P.; Apergis, Demitra; Mangus, Robert B.; Patel, Rima; Limtao, Jessica; Platonova, Svetlana; Gregorio, Aladino; Luty, Elliot								The Effects of Aerobic Exercise and Gaming on Cognitive Performance								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				61	1			73	83		10.1515/hukin-2017-0134			MAR 2018	2018	The purpose of our study was to investigate the effects of video gaming, aerobic exercise (biking), and the combination of these two activities on the domains of cognitive performance: selective attention, processing speed, and executive functioning. The study was a randomized clinical trial with 40 subjects (mean age 23.7 +/- 1.8 years) randomized to one of four thirty-minute conditions: video gaming, biking, simultaneous gaming and biking, and a control condition. Cognitive performance was measured pre and post condition using the Stroop test and Trails B test. A mixed design was utilized. While video gaming, biking, simultaneous gaming and biking conditions improved selective attention and processing speed (p < 0.05), only the bike condition improved the highest order of cognitive performance, executive function (p < 0.01). There were no changes in cognitive performance for the control condition. Previous studies have shown that if tasks approach the limits of attentional capacity there is an increase in the overall chance for errors, known as the dual-task deficit. Simultaneous biking and gaming may have surpassed attentional capacity limits, ultimately increasing errors during the executive function tests of our cognitive performance battery. The results suggest that the fatiguing effects of a combined physically and mentally challenging task that extends after the exercise cessation may overcome the eventual beneficial cognitive effects derived from the physical exercise.		[Douris, Peter C.; Handrakis, John P.; Apergis, Demitra; Mangus, Robert B.; Patel, Rima; Limtao, Jessica; Platonova, Svetlana; Gregorio, Aladino; Luty, Elliot] New York Inst Technol, Dept Phys Therapy, Old Westbury, NY 11568 USA; [Douris, Peter C.] New York Inst Technol, Dept Phys Therapy, Phys Therapy, Old Westbury, NY 11568 USA								11							Sport Sciences	WOS:000428411500007	29	Article; Article		
J	Comyns, Thomas; Hannon, Aoife								Strength and Conditioning Coaches' Application of the Session Rating of Perceived Exertion Method of Monitoring Within Professional Rugby Union								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				61	1			155	166		10.1515/hukin-2017-0118			MAR 2018	2018	Session rating of perceived exertion (session-RPE) is a method of monitoring and managing training loads. The purpose of this study was to research how and for what purpose strength and conditioning (S&C) coaches implement this monitoring method within professional rugby union. The study also aimed to assess if S&C coaches found this monitoring method to be valid and effective. An online survey containing 24 fixed response questions was used to assess how S&C coaches applied the session-RPE method. The survey was piloted with expert researchers and practitioners in the area of session-RPE prior to distribution and alterations were made to the survey based on the experts' feedback. Twenty S&C coaches working with professional rugby union clubs in Ireland, England, Scotland and Wales completed the survey. The coaches' responses indicated that the majority found the session-RPE to be a valid and effective monitoring method. While some good implementation practices were identified, not all of the coaches adhered to these guidelines which may impact on the accuracy of the collected data. For example, 30% of coaches do not collect the RPE for every session that a player does per week limiting the use of the session-RPE variables cumulative training load, training monotony, training strain and acute: chronic load ratio. S&C coaches within rugby should consider using session-RPE as a method of monitoring and implement the method in a manner reflective of research findings to enhance the potential applications of this system in maximising adaptations and minimising the risk of injury.		[Comyns, Thomas; Hannon, Aoife] Univ Limerick, Dept Physcial Educ & Sport Sci, Limerick, Ireland; [Comyns, Thomas] Univ Limerick, Hlth Res Inst, Limerick, Ireland; [Comyns, Thomas] Univ Limerick, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Limerick, Ireland								12							Sport Sciences	WOS:000428411500014	28	Article; Article		
J	Castillo, Daniel; Yanci, Javier; Camara, Jesus								Impact of Official Matches on Soccer Referees' Power Performance								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				61	1			131	140		10.1515/hukin-2017-0116			MAR 2018	2018	The evaluation of match officials' neuromuscular performance is now an important consideration and the vertical jump test is considered suitable for assessing lower limb power, partly because it is directly related to refereeing. The aim of this study, therefore, was to determine the effect of soccer matches on match officials' vertical jump performance by assessing various biomechanical variables. Eighteen field referees (FRs) and 36 assistant referees (ARs) who officiated in 18 official matches participated in this study. Before the match, at half time and immediately after the match, officials performed two countermovement jumps. Flight phase time (FT), maximum force production (MFpropulsion), time to production of maximum force (TMFpropulsion), production of maximum power (MP), maximum landing force (MFlanding) and time to stabilization (TTS) were calculated for all jumps. There was a tendency for match officials' jumping performance to improve after matches than beforehand (FR: effect size (ES) = 0.19 +/- 0.36, possibly trivial; AR: ES = 0.07 +/- 0.17, likely trivial). There were also likely small and very likely moderate differences between FRs' MP in pre-match and half-time jumps (ES = 0.46 +/- 0.47) and in their pre- and post-match jumps (ES = 0.71 +/- 0.48). These results indicate that refereeing soccer matches does not reduce vertical jump performance; the subsequent neuromuscular fatigue is not sufficient to affect landing technique.		[Castillo, Daniel; Yanci, Javier; Camara, Jesus] Univ Basque Country, Fac Educ & Sport, Vitoria, Spain; [Castillo, Daniel] Univ Basque Country, UPV EHU, Fac Educ & Sport, Lasarte 71, Vitoria 01007, Spain								12							Sport Sciences	WOS:000428411500012	41	Article; Article		
J	Bergquist, Ronny; Iversen, Vegard Moe; Mork, Paul J.; Fimland, Marius Steiro								Muscle Activity in Upper-Body Single-Joint Resistance Exercises with Elastic Resistance Bands vs. Free Weights								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				61	1			5	13		10.1515/hukin-2017-0137			MAR 2018	2018	Elastic resistance bands require little space, are light and portable, but their efficacy has not yet been established for several resistance exercises. The main objective of this study was to compare the muscle activation levels induced by elastic resistance bands versus conventional resistance training equipment (dumbbells) in the upper-body resistance exercises flyes and reverse flyes. The level of muscle activation was measured with surface electromyography in 29 men and women in a cross-over design where resistance loadings with elastic resistance bands and dumbbells were matched using 10-repetition maximum loadings. Elastic resistance bands induced slightly lower muscle activity in the muscles most people aim to activate during flyes and reverse flies, namely pectoralis major and deltoideus posterior, respectively. However, elastic resistance bands increased the muscle activation level substantially in perceived ancillary muscles, that is deltoideus anterior in flyes, and deltoideus medius and trapezius descendens in reverse flyes, possibly due to elastic bands being a more unstable resistance modality. Overall, the results show that elastic resistance bands can be considered a feasible alternative to dumbbells in flyes and reverse flyes.		[Bergquist, Ronny; Fimland, Marius Steiro] Norwegian Univ Sci & Technol, Dept Neuromed & Movement Sci, Trondheim, Norway; [Iversen, Vegard Moe; Mork, Paul J.] Norwegian Univ Sci & Technol, Dept Publ Hlth & Gen Practice, Trondheim, Norway; [Fimland, Marius Steiro] Trondheim Reg & Univ Hosp, St Olavs Hosp, Dept Phys Med & Rehabil, Trondheim, Norway; [Bergquist, Ronny] NTNU, Fak Med & Helsevitenskap, PB 8905, N-7491 Trondheim, Norway								26							Sport Sciences	WOS:000428411500001	18	Article; Article		
J	Garcia-Pinillos, Felipe; Delgado-Floody, Pedro; Martinez-Salazar, Cristian; Latorre-Roman, Pedro A.								Responsiveness of The Countermovement Jump and Handgrip Strength to an Incremental Running Test in Endurance Athletes: Influence of Sex								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				61	1			199	208		10.1515/hukin-2017-0121			MAR 2018	2018	The present study analyzed the acute effects of an incremental running test on countermovement jump (CMJ) and handgrip strength performance in endurance athletes, considering the effect of post-exercise recovery time and sex. Thirty-three recreationally trained long-distance runners, 20 men and 13 women, participated voluntarily in this study. The participants performed the Leger test, moreover, the CMJ and handgrip strength tests were carried out before and after the running test and during different stages of recovery (at the 1st min of recovery (posttest1), 5th min of recovery (posttest2), and 10th min of recovery (posttest3)). Two-way analysis of variance revealed a significant improvement in the CMJ (pre-posttest1, p = 0.001) and handgrip strength (pre-posttest2, p = 0.017) during recovery time. The Pearson's Chi-2 test showed no significant relationship (p >= 0.05) between sex and post-activation potentiation (PAP). A linear regression analysis pointed to heart rate recovery as a predictive factor of CMJ improvement (PAP). In conclusion, despite significant fatigue reached during the Leger test, the long-distance runners did not experience an impaired CMJ and handgrip strength performance, either men or women, achieving an improvement (PAP) in posttest conditions. The results obtained showed no significant relationship between sex and PAP. Moreover, significant effect of recovery after running at high intensity on CMJ performance and handgrip strength was found. Finally, the data suggest that PAP condition can be predicted by heart rate recovery in endurance runners.		[Garcia-Pinillos, Felipe; Latorre-Roman, Pedro A.] Univ Jaen, Fac Educ Sci, Dept Didact Corporal Express, Paraje Las Lagunillas S-N,D2 Bldg,Dept 142, Jaen 23071, Spain; [Delgado-Floody, Pedro; Martinez-Salazar, Cristian] Univ La Frontera, Fac Educ Social Sci & Humanities, Dept Phys Educ Sport & Recreat, Temuco, Chile; [Garcia-Pinillos, Felipe] Univ Jaen, Dept Didact Corporal Express, Fac Educ Sci, Campus las Lagunillas S-N, Jaen 23071, Spain								6							Sport Sciences	WOS:000428411500018	32	Article; Article		
J	Catalan-Eslava, Maria; Gonzalez-Villora, Sixto; Pastor-Vicedo, Juan C.; Contreras-Jordan, Onofre R.								Analysis of Tactical, Decisional and Executional Behaviour According to the Level of Expertise in Squash								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				61	1			227	240		10.1515/hukin-2017-0139			MAR 2018	2018	The objective of this study was to analyse the differences in tactical principles, decision-making and execution of the return shot and drop shot of squash players at different levels of proficiency. The sample was composed of 80 players, divided into four levels of expertise (first national category, second national category, autonomous regional level and provincial level). The Squash Performance Evaluation Tool was used for recording the level of decision-making and execution. The results revealed that reading of the context of the game improved as the level of the player's expertise of both the return shot and the drop shot increased. The correlation between correct decision-making and better quality execution for both the return shot and the drop shot in squash also improved with the player's level of expertise. According to these results, improvements in situational tactical principles and the application of tactical principles, correct decision-making and high-quality execution are essential to develop the athletic performance level among squash players.		[Catalan-Eslava, Maria] Minist Educ Culture & Sport, EDAF Res Grp, Cuenca, Spain; [Gonzalez-Villora, Sixto] Univ Castilla La Mancha, Teacher Training Fac, EDAF Res Grp, Cuenca, Spain; [Pastor-Vicedo, Juan C.; Contreras-Jordan, Onofre R.] Univ Castilla La Mancha, Teacher Training Fac, EDAF Res Grp, Albacete, Spain; [Gonzalez-Villora, Sixto] Univ Castilla La Mancha, Teacher Training Fac Cuenca, Edificio Fray Luis de Leon,Campus Univ S-N, Cuenca 16071, Spain								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:000428411500021	32	Article; Article		
J	Lima, Fabiano F.; Camillo, Carlos A.; Gobbo, Luis A.; Trevisan, Iara B.; Nascimento, Wesley B. B. M.; Silva, Bruna S. A.; Lima, Manoel C. S.; Ramos, Dionei; Ramos, Ercy M. C.								Resistance Training using Low Cost Elastic Tubing is Equally Effective to Conventional Weight Machines in Middle-Aged to Older Healthy Adults: A Quasi-Randomized Controlled Clinical Trial								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				17	1			153	160					MAR 2018	2018	The objectives of the study were to compare the effects of resistance training using either a low cost and portable elastic tubing or conventional weight machines on muscle force, functional exercise capacity, and health-related quality of life (HRQOL) in middle-aged to older healthy adults. In this clinical trial twenty-nine middle-aged to older healthy adults were randomly assigned to one of the three groups a priori defined: resistance training with elastic tubing (ETG; n = 10), conventional resistance training (weight machines) (CTG; n = 9) and control group (CG, n = 10). Both ETG and CTG followed a 12-week resistance training (3x/week - upper and lower limbs). Muscle force, functional exercise capacity and HRQOL were evaluated at baseline, 6 and 12 weeks. CG underwent the three evaluations with no formal intervention or activity counseling provided. ETG and CTG increased similarly and significantly muscle force (Delta 16-44% in ETG and Delta 25-46% in CTG, p < 0.05 for both), functional exercise capacity (ETG Delta 4 +/- 4% and CTG Delta 6 +/- 8%; p < 0.05 for both). Improvement on "pain" domain of HRQOL could only be observed in the CTG (Delta 21 +/- 26% p = 0.037). CG showed no statistical improvement in any of the variables investigated. Resistance training using elastic tubing (a low cost and portable tool) and conventional resistance training using weight machines promoted similar positive effects on peripheral muscle force and functional exercise capacity in middle-aged to older healthy adults.		[Lima, Fabiano F.; Trevisan, Iara B.; Nascimento, Wesley B. B. M.; Silva, Bruna S. A.; Ramos, Dionei; Ramos, Ercy M. C.] Sao Paulo State Univ, UNESP Presidente Prudente, Dept Physioterapy, Rua Roberto Simonsen,305, Presidente Prudente, SP, Brazil; [Camillo, Carlos A.] Katholieke Univ Leuven, Dept Rehabil Sci, Leuven, Belgium; [Camillo, Carlos A.] Univ Hosp Leuven, Resp Div & Rehabilit, Leuven, Belgium; [Gobbo, Luis A.] Sao Paulo State Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Presidente Prudente, Brazil; [Lima, Fabiano F.] Sao Paulo State Univ, UNESP Presidente Prudente, Dept Physioterapy, Rua Roberto Simonsen,305, Presidente Prudente, SP, Brazil								33							Sport Sciences	WOS:000425786500018	34	Article; Article		
J	Junior, Pedro B.; de Andrade, Vitor L.; Campos, Eduardo Z.; Kalva-Filho, Carlos A.; Zagatto, Alessandro M.; de Araujo, Gustavo G.; Papoti, Marcelo								Effect of Endurance Training on The Lactate and Glucose Minimum Intensities								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				17	1			117	123					MAR 2018	2018	Due to the controversy about the sensitive of lactate minimum intensity (LMI) to training and the need to develop other tool for aerobic fitness evaluation, the purpose of this study was to analyze the sensitivity of glucose minimum intensity (GMI) and LMI to endurance training. Eight trained male cyclists (21.4 +/- 1.9 years, 67.6 +/- 7.5 kg and 1.72 +/- 0.10 m) were evaluated twice, before and after 12 weeks of training. GMI and LMI were calculated, respectively, by the lowest blood glucose and lactate values attained during an incremental test performed after a hyperlactemia induction, and VO(2)max was determined during standard incremental effort. The training was prescribed in three different zones and controlled by heart rate (HR). The training distribution was equivalent to 59.7%, 25.0% and 15.3% below, at and above anaerobic threshold HR respectively. The anaerobic threshold evaluated by GMI and LMI improvement 9.89 +/- 4.35% and 10.28 +/- 9.89 respectively, after training, but the VO(2)max 2.52 +/- 1.81%. No differences were found between GMI and LMI in pre (218.2 +/- 22.1 vs 215.0 +/- 18.6 W) and post (240.6 +/- 22.9 vs 237.5 +/- 18.8 W) training situations. LMI and GMI were sensitive to 12-week aerobic training in cyclist; thus, both protocols can be used to assess aerobic adaptation, athletes diagnostic and prescribe training.		[Junior, Pedro B.; de Araujo, Gustavo G.] Univ Fed Alagoas, Maceio Alagoas, Brazil; [de Andrade, Vitor L.] Univ Estadual Paulista, Biosci Inst, Rio Claro, SP, Brazil; [Campos, Eduardo Z.] Univ Fed Pernambuco, Recife, PE, Brazil; [Kalva-Filho, Carlos A.; Papoti, Marcelo] Univ Sao Paulo, Fac Med Ribeirao Preto, Ribeirao Preto, SP, Brazil; [Zagatto, Alessandro M.; Papoti, Marcelo] Univ Sao Paulo, Sch Phys Educ & Sport Ribeirao Preto, Ribeirao Preto, SP, Brazil; [Junior, Pedro B.] Sao Paulo State Univ UNESP, Biosci Inst, Dept Phys Educ, Rio Claro, SP, Brazil								7							Sport Sciences	WOS:000425786500014	30	Article; Article		
J	Stoeggl, Thomas; Welde, Boye; Supej, Matej; Zoppirolli, Chiara; Rolland, Carsten G.; Holmberg, Hans-Christer; Pellegrini, Barbara								Impact of Incline, Sex and Level of Performance on Kinematics during a Distance Race in Classical Cross-Country Skiing								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				17	1			124	133					MAR 2018	2018	Here, female and male elite cross-country (XC) skiers were compared on varying terrain during an official 10-km (women) and 15-km (men) Norwegian championship race. On the basis of race performance, 82 skiers were classified as fast (FS) (20 women, 20 men) or slower (SS) (21, 21) skiers. All were video recorded on flat (0 degrees), intermediate (3.5 degrees), uphill (7.1 degrees) and steep uphill (11 degrees) terrain during the race at a distance of 0.8, 1.2, 2.1 and 7.1 km from the start, respectively. All skiers employed exclusively double-poling (DP) on the flat section and, except for the male winner, exclusively diagonal stride (DIA) on the uphill sections. On the intermediate section, more men than women utilized DP and fewer DIA (p = 0.001), with no difference in kick double-poling (DPK). More FS than SS utilized DPK and fewer DIA (p = 0.001), with similar usage of DP. Males skied with faster and longer cycles but lower cycle rate compared with females (p < 0.001), with largest absolute sex differences on flat terrain (p < 0.001) and largest relative differences for cycle velocity and length on intermediate and uphill terrain. External power output rose with increasing incline, being higher for men and FS (p < 0.001). Cycle velocity on flat terrain was the best predictor of mean race velocity for the men, while cycle velocity on steep uphill was the best predictor for the women (both p < 0.001). In conclusion, incline, sex and level of performance influenced cycle characteristics and power output. Greatest absolute sex gap was on flat terrain, whereas the relative difference was greatest on intermediate and steep uphill terrain. We recommend usage of more DP and/or DPK, and less DIA and fewer transitions between techniques on intermediate terrain. Predictors of race performance are sex specific with greatest potential for enhancing performance on flat terrain for men and on steep uphill terrain for women.		Salzburg Univ, Dept Sport Sci & Kinesiol, Salzburg, Austria; UiT Arctic Univ Norway, Sch Sport Sci, Tromso, Norway; Univ Ljubljana, Fac Sport, Ljubljana, Slovenia; Mid Sweden Univ, Swedish Winter Sports Res Ctr, Dept Hlth Sci, Ostersund, Slovenia; Univ Verona, Ctr Res Mt Sport & Hlth, CeRiSM, Rovereto, Italy; Univ Verona, Dept Neurosci Biomedicine & Movement Sci, Verona, Italy; [Stoeggl, Thomas] Dept Sport Sci & Kinesiol, Schlossallee 49, A-5400 Hallein Rif, Austria								34							Sport Sciences	WOS:000425786500015	35	Article; Article		
J	Murray, Kevin O.; Paris, Hunter L.; Fly, Alyce D.; Chapman, Robert F.; Mickleborough, Timothy D.								Carbohydrate Mouth Rinse Improves Cycling Time-Trial Performance without Altering Plasma Insulin Concentration								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				17	1			145	152					MAR 2018	2018	Rinsing the mouth with a carbohydrate solution has been shown to improve exercise performance in a manner similar to carbohydrate ingestion. However, the underlying mechanisms behind these ergogenic benefits remain unclear. This study evaluated whether rinsing the mouth with a carbohydrate solution alters plasma insulin and glucose concentration during the initial stages of a 40 km cycling time-trial. Eight trained, competitive cyclists [age (mean +/- SEM) = 24 +/- 2 y; VO2max = 64.5 +/- 2.2 ml.kg(-1).min(-1)] completed three simulated 40 km time-trials comprised of a familiarization trial, a carbohydrate condition (CHO) and a placebo mouth rinse condition (PLA). In the two mouth rinse conditions, rinsing was administered prior to onset of exercise and every 5 km throughout exercise. Plasma insulin was collected at 5 km intervals throughout the first 25 km, and glucose samples were collected at 5 km intervals throughout the exercise bout. No change in plasma insulin was detected between conditions (p = 0.638, ES < 0.03) for the first 25 km of the time-trial. Likewise, plasma glucose concentration did not differ between CHO and PLA (p = 0.801, ES < 0.01) and remained relatively stable throughout exercise. Time to complete the 40 km time-trial was significantly faster for CHO (67.1 +/- 1.1 min) compared to PLA [67.9 +/- 1.0 min; (P = 0.028, ES 0.27)]. Performance time was faster by an average of 1.1% (95% confidence interval range 0.2-2.0%) in the CHO condition. Exercise intensity (%VO2max) throughout the trial was similar between conditions (p = 0.846). Respiratory exchange ratio was not significantly different between conditions (0.88 +/- 0.01 for PLA, and 0.91 +/- 0.01 for GLC; p = 0.081). Performance gains elicited by a carbohydrate mouth rinse occurred independently of changes in plasma insulin concentration.		[Murray, Kevin O.; Paris, Hunter L.; Chapman, Robert F.; Mickleborough, Timothy D.] Indiana Univ, Sch Publ Health Bloomington, Dept Kinesiol, 1025 E 7th St,HPER 112, Bloomington, IN 47405 USA; [Fly, Alyce D.] Indiana Univ, Sch Publ Health Bloomington, Dept Appl Hlth Sci, Bloomington, IN USA; [Murray, Kevin O.] Indiana Univ, Sch Publ Health Bloomington, Dept Kinesiol, 1025 E 7th St,HPER 112, Bloomington, IN 47405 USA								19							Sport Sciences	WOS:000425786500017	31	Article; Article		
J	Haines, Mackenzie; McKinley-Barnard, Sarah K.; Andre, Thomas L.; Gann, Josh J.; Hwang, Paul S.; Willoughby, Darryn S.								Skeletal Muscle Estrogen Receptor Activation in Response to Eccentric Exercise Up-Regulates Myogenic-Related Gene Expression Independent of Differing Serum Estradiol Levels Occurring during the Human Menstrual Cycle								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				17	1			31	39					MAR 2018	2018	This study sought to determine if the differences in serum estradiol we have previously observed to occur during the mid-follicular (MF) and mid-luteal (ML) phases of the female menstrual cycle could be attributed to estrogen-induced receptor activation and subsequent effects on myogenic-related genes which may otherwise impact muscle regeneration in response to eccentric exercise. Twenty-two physically-active females (20.9 +/- 1.4 years, 63.5 +/- 9.0 kg, 1.65 +/- 0.08 m) underwent an eccentric exercise bout of the knee extensors during the MF and ML phases of their 28-day menstrual cycle. Prior to (PRE), at 6 (6HRPOST), and 24 (24HRPOST) hours post-exercise for each session, participants had muscle biopsies obtained. Skeletal muscle estradiol and estrogen receptor-alpha (ER-alpha) content and ER-DNA binding were determined with ELISA. Real-time PCR was used to assess ER-alpha, Myo-D, and cyclin D1 mRNA expression. Data were analyzed utilizing a 2 x 3 repeated measures univariate analyses of variance (ANOVA) for each criterion variable (p <= .05). Skeletal muscle estradiol levels were not significantly impacted by either menstrual phase (p > 0.05); however, both ER-alpha mRNA and protein were significantly increased during MF (p < 0.05). ER-DNA binding and Myo-D mRNA expression increased significantly in both menstrual phases in response to exercise but were not different from one another; however, cyclin D1 mRNA expression was significantly greater during MF. This study demonstrates that skeletal muscle ER-alpha activation in response to eccentric exercise up-regulates myogenic-related gene expression independent of serum estradiol levels occurring during the human menstrual cycle.		[Haines, Mackenzie; Hwang, Paul S.; Willoughby, Darryn S.] Dept Hlth Human Performance & Recreat, Exercise & Biochem Nutr Lab, One Bear Pl 97313, Waco, TX 76798 USA; [Haines, Mackenzie] Baylor Univ, Exercise Physiol, Waco, TX 76798 USA; [Willoughby, Darryn S.] Baylor Univ, Dept Hlth Human Performance & Recreat, Exercise & Nutrit Biochem & Mol Physiol, Waco, TX 76798 USA; [Hwang, Paul S.] Baylor Univ, Waco, TX 76798 USA; [McKinley-Barnard, Sarah K.] Univ S Alabama, Dept Hlth Kinesiol & Sport, Mobile, AL 36688 USA; [Andre, Thomas L.] Clayton State Univ, Dept Hlth & Fitness Management, Morrow, GA USA; [Gann, Josh J.] Univ Louisiana Monroe, Dept Kinesiol, Monroe, LA USA; [Willoughby, Darryn S.] Dept Hlth Human Performance & Recreat, Exercise & Biochem Nutr Lab, One Bear Pl 97313, Waco, TX 76798 USA								31							Sport Sciences	WOS:000425786500005	40	Article; Article		
J	Farias, Claudio; Valerio, Carla; Mesquita, Isabel								Sport Education as a Curriculum Approach to Student Learning of Invasion Games: Effects on Game Performance and Game Involvement								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				17	1			56	65					MAR 2018	2018	The teaching and learning of games and sport-based activities has historically been the dominant form of the physical education curricula. With an interest in providing to students meaningful and culturally situated sporting experiences, Sport Education is probably the most implemented and researched pedagogical model worldwide. However, although there is considerable evidence that the model as a curriculum approach can benefit the development of social goals and healthy sport behaviors, not a single study as to date examined students' game-play development beyond participation in single and isolated teaching units. Therefore, the purpose of this study was to examine students' development of Game Performance and Game Involvement during participation in three consecutive Sport Education seasons of invasion games. The participants were an experienced physical education teacher and one seventh-grade class totaling 26 students (10 girls and 16 boys). Using the Game Performance Assessment Instrument (Oslin et al., 1998), pre-test to post-tests measures of students' Game Performance and Game Involvement were collected during their participation in basketball (20 lessons), handball (16 lessons), and football (18 lessons) units. Inter-group differences and pre-test to post-test improvements within each season were analyzed through 2 (time) x group (sport) repeated measures ANOVA tests. There were found significant pre-test to post-test improvements in Game Performance and Game Involvement in the second (handball) and third (football) seasons, but not in the first season (basketball). Students' Game Performance and Involvement scores of handball and football were significantly higher than their scores while playing basketball. The opportunity for an extended engagement in game-play activities and prolonged membership of students in the same teams throughout three consecutive seasons of Sport Education were key to the outcomes found. The specific configurations of the game forms played by students either inhibited or enabled their game-play development.		[Farias, Claudio] Lusofona Univ, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Lisbon, Portugal; [Valerio, Carla; Mesquita, Isabel] Univ Porto, Fac Sport, Oporto, Portugal; [Farias, Claudio] Univ Lusofona Human & Technol, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Campo Grande 376, P-1749024 Lisbon, Portugal								31							Sport Sciences	WOS:000425786500007	38	Article; Article		
J	Cook, Summer B.; Scott, Brendan R.; Hayes, Katherine L.; Murphy, Bethany G.								Neuromuscular Adaptations to Low-Load Blood Flow Restricted Resistance Training								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				17	1			66	73					MAR 2018	2018	Low-load blood flow restricted (BFR) resistance exercise has been suggested to be as effective as moderate and high-load resistance training for increasing muscle size and strength. The purpose of the study was to evaluate the effects of 6 weeks of HL or low-load BFR resistance training on neuromuscular function, strength, and hypertrophy of the knee extensors. Eighteen participants aged 18-22 years old were randomized to one of three training groups: moderate load (ML: 70% of 1 repetition maximum [1-RM]); BFR (20% 1-RM with a vascular restriction set to similar to 180 mmHg); and a control group (CON) that did not exercise. Participants performed leg extension (LE) and leg press exercises 3 times per week for 6 weeks. Measurements of isometric torque, LE 1-RM, central activation, electrically evoked torque, and muscle volume of the knee extensors were obtained before and after training. Isometric peak torque did not change following the training (p = 0.13). LE 1-RM improved in the ML (34 +/- 20%; d = 0.78) and BFR (14 +/- 5%; d = 0.67) groups compared to the CON group (0.6 +/- 8%; d = 0.09; time x group interaction p = 0.02). Muscle volume increased in the ML (5.6%; d = 0.19) and BFR groups (2.5%; d = 0.09) with no change in the CON group (time x group interaction p = 0.001). There were no changes in central activation and evoked torque in any groups following the training (p > 0.05). Strength and hypertrophy were evident following ML and BFR resistance training programs indicating that both modalities are effective, although ML training appears to be a more potent and efficient. Neuromuscular changes were not evident and warrant more research.		[Cook, Summer B.; Hayes, Katherine L.; Murphy, Bethany G.] Univ New Hampshire, Dept Kinesiol, 124 Main St, Durham, NH 03824 USA; [Scott, Brendan R.] Murdoch Univ, Sch Psychol & Exercise Sci, Strength & Conditioning, Perth, WA, Australia; [Cook, Summer B.] Univ New Hampshire, Dept Kinesiol, 124 Main St, Durham, NH 03824 USA								42							Sport Sciences	WOS:000425786500008	31	Article; Article		
J	Colclough, A.; Munro, A. G.; Herrington, L. C.; McMahon, J. J.; Comfort, P.								The effects of a four week jump-training program on frontal plane projection angle in female gymnasts								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				30				29	33		10.1016/j.ptsp.2017.11.003			MAR 2018	2018	Objectives: To investigate the effects of a four week jump training program on frontal plane projection angle (FPPA) in young female gymnasts. Design: Intervention study, consisting of a four week jump training program performed for 15 min as part of a warm-up, three days per week for four weeks. Setting: Gymnastics training center. Participants: Fourteen youth female gymnasts (age: 13.5 +/- 2.14 years, height: 1.54 +/- 0.11 m, body mass: 46.23 +/- 7.68 kg). Main outcome measures: Change in FPPA during a 30 cm drop landing and tuck back somersault. Results: Large and significant decreases (p < 0.001) in FPPA of 6.8 degrees (39%) and 8.4 degrees (37%) during the drop landing and tuck back somersault, respectively. Conclusion: The jump training program was successful in improving FPPA in female gymnasts and is advised to be implemented into the warm-ups and training programs of competitive female gymnasts to improve FPPA and therefore reduce the risk factors associated with knee injuries. (C) 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Colclough, A.; Munro, A. G.; Herrington, L. C.; McMahon, J. J.; Comfort, P.] Univ Salford, Directorate Sport Exercise & Physiotherapy, Frederick Rd, Salford M6 6PU, Greater Manches, England; [Comfort, P.] Univ Salford, Directorate Sport Exercise & Physiotherapy, Frederick Rd, Salford M6 6PU, Greater Manches, England								13							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000427335300005	32	Article; Article		
J	Serenza, Felipe S.; Oliveira, Anamaria S.; Bedo, Bruno L. S.; Mariano, Fabio P.; Aquino, Rodrigo; Warner, Martin; Santiago, Paulo R. P.								Biomechanical analysis of the shoulder of swimmers after a maximal effort test								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				30				14	21		10.1016/j.ptsp.2017.11.002			MAR 2018	2018	Objectives: To compare the kinematics and electromyography of the periscapular muscles in swimmers before and after a 3-min maximal effort test. Participants: 16 competitive swimmers. Main outcome measurements: Infrared cameras were used to record kinematics in the scapular plane in synchronization with the electromyography system. Results: There was an increase in internal rotation in all angles (p < 0.05), an increase of the anterior tilt, with 120 of elevation (p = 0.04). The serratus anterior showed a decrease in the intervals of 120-90 degrees and 60-30 degrees (p = 0.04; p = 0.02). There was a linear relationship between the variation before and after the maximal effort of the anterior tilt in relation to the variation of muscular activation of the transverse trapezius (p = 0.01) and the lower trapezius (42%, p = 0.01); an internal rotation in 120 and 90 of elevation in relation to the transverse trapezius (p = 0.01); and an internal rotation in 60 and 30 of elevation in relation to the serratus anterior (p = 0.04, p = 0.03). Conclusion: A maximal 3-min effort test resulted in altered scapular biomechanics. More studies are needed to verify if the changes correspond to a risk factor for injuries. (C) 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Serenza, Felipe S.; Oliveira, Anamaria S.; Bedo, Bruno L. S.; Mariano, Fabio P.; Aquino, Rodrigo; Santiago, Paulo R. P.] Univ Sao Paulo, Fac Med Ribeirao Preto, 3900 Bandeirantes Ave, BR-14040900 Ribeirao Preto, SP, Brazil; [Warner, Martin] Univ Southampton, Fac Hlth Sci, Arthrit Res UK Ctr Sport Exercise & Osteoarthrit, Southampton SO17 1BJ, Hants, England; [Santiago, Paulo R. P.] Univ Sao Paulo, Sch Phys Educ & Sport Ribeirao Preto, Ribeirao Preto, Brazil; [Santiago, Paulo R. P.] Univ Sao Paulo, Sch Phys Educ & Sport Ribeirao Preto, Ribeirao Preto, Brazil; [Santiago, Paulo R. P.] Lab Biomech & Motor Control LABIOCOM, 3900 Bandeirantes Ave, BR-14040900 Ribeirao Preto, SP, Brazil								4							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000427335300003	35	Article; Article		
J	Habechian, Fernanda A. P.; Lozana, Ana Leticia; Camargo, Paula R.								Quantifying humeral retrotorsion in young swimmers and association with swim volume								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				30				34	38		10.1016/j.ptsp.2017.11.004			MAR 2018	2018	Objectives: To compare the humeral retrotorsion (HRT) among non-athletes, amateur swimmers and competitive swimmers and to analyze the relationship between HRT and swim volume in competitive swimmers. Design: Cross-sectional. Setting: Laboratory. Participants: Ninety children and adolescents, both genders (30 non-athletes: 11.50 +/- 1.94 years; 30 amateur swimmers: 11.56 +/- 1.81 years; and 30 competitive swimmers: 12.63 +/- 2.02 years). Main outcome measures: HRT measurement through the bicipital forearm angle (BFA), by palpation, using an inclinometer to obtain the angle. Results: Competitive swimmers showed lower BFA (higher HRT) compared to the amateurs (mean difference: 8.3 degrees; p = 0.013; effect size: 0.82) and to the non-athletes (mean difference: 8.5 degrees; p = 0.010; effect size: 0.80). A significant fair negative relationship (r = -0.37; p = 0.04) was found between BFA and volume of swim. Conclusion: Competitive young swimmers present increased HRT and a higher volume of swim is associated with a lower BFA (higher HRT) in these athletes. These results can help to improve the understanding of osseous adaptations in young swimmers. (C) 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Habechian, Fernanda A. P.; Lozana, Ana Leticia; Camargo, Paula R.] Univ Fed Sao Carlos, Dept Phys Therapy, Lab Anal & Intervent Shoulder Complex, Sao Carlos, SP, Brazil; [Habechian, Fernanda A. P.] Catholic Univ Maule, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Kinesiol, Talca, Chile; [Camargo, Paula R.] Univ Fed Sao Carlos, Dept Fisioterapia, Rod Washington Luis,Km 235, BR-13565905 Sao Carlos, SP, Brazil								6							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000427335300006	25	Article; Article		
J	Fraser, John J.; Mangum, L. Colby; Hertel, Jay								Test-retest reliability of ultrasound measures of intrinsic foot motor function								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				30				39	47		10.1016/j.ptsp.2017.11.032			MAR 2018	2018	Objective: To establish test-retest reliability of Intrinsic Foot Muscle (IFM) motor function measured using ultrasound imaging (USI). Setting: Laboratory. Design: Reliability Study. Participants: 24 healthy young adults without history of ankle-foot injury. Main outcome measures: Ultrasound measures of Abductor hallucis (AbdH), flexor digitorum brevis (FDB), quadratus plantae (QP) and flexor hallucis brevis (FHB) cross-sectional area (CSA) and thickness were assessed on 2 occasions, 3-10 days apart. The IFM were measured at rest, during active and resisted contraction, and during IFM exercises using USI and reported as activation ratios. Reliability was assessed with intraclass correlation coefficients (ICC2,k) and interpreted as being excellent > 0.75, 0.40-0.75 as fair to good, and < 0.40 as poor. Results: Reliability of AbdH, FDB, QP, and FHB CSA and thickness resting measures were excellent (0.76-0.98). Active and resisted measures and IFM exercises had good to excellent reliability (0.66-0.99). Standard error of measurement (SEM) of resting CSA thickness measures ranged from 0.09 to 0.14 cm(2) and 0.05-0.09 cm. Minimal detectable change (MDC) for CSA resting measures ranged from 0.25 to 0.40 cm(2) and 0,14-0.24 cm for thickness measures. IFM activation SEM during exercises ranged from 0.01 to 0.11, with MDCs ranging from 0.03 to 0.31. Conclusion: There is potential utility for USI assessment of IFM neuromotor function in research and clinical practice. Published by Elsevier Ltd.		[Fraser, John J.; Mangum, L. Colby; Hertel, Jay] Univ Virginia, Dept Kinesiol, 210 Emmet St South, Charlottesville, VA 22904 USA; [Fraser, John J.] Naval Hlth Res Ctr, Warfighter Performance Dept, 140 Sylvester Rd, San Diego, CA 92106 USA								31							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000427335300007	51	Article; Article		
J	Spiteri, Tania; McIntyre, Fleur; Specos, Christina; Myszka, Shawn								Cognitive Training for Agility: The Integration Between Perception and Action								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				40	1			39	46		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000310			FEB 2018	2018	Agility is a key feature within many strength and conditioning programs, with the development of athletes physical and technical qualities being the primary focus to increase performance. However, this approach is somewhat limited as true retention and transfer of performance from training to sport cannot be achieved unless coaches develop an athlete's ability to identify relevant stimuli and learn to adapt movement in response to varying constraints. The purposes of this article are to discuss the constraints acting on the athlete and provide examples of how these can be manipulated to enhance information movement coupling during training to improve the overall agility performance.		[Spiteri, Tania; McIntyre, Fleur] Univ Notre Dame Fremantle, Sch Hlth Sci, Fremantle, WA, Australia; [Specos, Christina] Purdue Univ, Sports Performance, W Lafayette, IN 47907 USA; [Myszka, Shawn] Movement Mastery, Minneapolis, MN USA; [Spiteri, Tania] Univ Notre Dame Fremantle, Sch Hlth Sci, Fremantle, WA, Australia								31							Sport Sciences	WOS:000440255800005	46	Article; Article		
J	Lockie, Robert G.								A 6-Week Base Strength Training Program for Sprint Acceleration Development and Foundation for Future Progression in Amateur Athletes								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				40	1			2	12		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000341			FEB 2018	2018	This article details a 6-week resistance training program that can be used to improve sprint acceleration in amateur athletes. This program can concurrently enhance base lower-body strength and 10-m speed and incorporates the back squat, step-up, cable hip flexion, and smith machine calf raise loads can be increased from approximately 75-90% of one repetition-maximum over the course of the program. The exercises are described with supporting scientific evidence for their use additionally, suggestions are provided as to how the program could be modified and progressed with different exercises to further enhance the force-velocity profile.		[Lockie, Robert G.] Calif State Univ Fullerton, Dept Kinesiol, Strength & Conditioning, Fullerton, CA 92634 USA; [Lockie, Robert G.] Calif State Univ Fullerton, Dept Kinesiol, Strength & Conditioning, Fullerton, CA 92634 USA								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:000440255800002	85	Article; Article		
J	Paul, Darren J.; Akenhead, Richard								Agility Training: A Potential Model for the Reduction and Rehabilitation of Anterior Cruciate Ligament Injury								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				40	1			98	105		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000361			FEB 2018	2018	Recent data suggest anterior cruciate ligament injury occurrence in team sports is not decreasing. Although the reasons currently elude us and are likely complex, adopting a more holistic approach that shifts our perspective from purely physical considerations may be a good starting point. Consideration should be given to the inherent perceptual demands of team sports and the complex interplay between physical capacities and decision making, which ultimately determines movement, performance, and injury risk. Training programs containing a broader array of perceptually demanding exercise drills developed in consultation with players and coaches may also prove a fruitful endeavor.		[Paul, Darren J.] Aspetar Qatar Orthopaed & Sports Med Hosp, Exercise Sport Sci Dept, Doha, Qatar; [Akenhead, Richard] Football Assoc, St Georges Pk Natl Football Ctr, Burton Upon Trent, England; [Paul, Darren J.] Aspetar Qatar Orthopaed & Sports Med Hosp, Exercise Sport Sci Dept, Doha, Qatar								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:000440255800010	33	Article; Article		
J	Lockie, Robert G.; Lazar, Adrina; Davis, DeShaun L.; Moreno, Matthew R.								Effects of Postactivation Potentiation on Linear and Change-of-Direction Speed: Analysis of the Current Literature and Applications for the Strength and Conditioning Coach								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				40	1			75	91		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000277			FEB 2018	2018	This article investigates the current literature regarding postactivation potentiation (pap) effects on linear and change-of-direction (cod) speed. The mechanisms behind pap are briefly described, as well as those factors that must be taken into consideration by coaches when they wish to implement a program that could invoke pap. Linear and cod speed are defined such that coaches know what parameter they are training. Finally, a review and meta- analysis of the available literature regarding pap and linear and cod speed are provided and discussed. Practical applications and conclusions from the analysis are provided for coaches.		[Lockie, Robert G.] Calif State Univ Fullerton, Dept Kinesiol, Strength & Conditioning, Fullerton, CA 92634 USA; [Lazar, Adrina; Davis, DeShaun L.; Moreno, Matthew R.] Calif State Univ Northridge, Dept Kinesiol, Northridge, CA 91330 USA; [Lockie, Robert G.] Calif State Univ Fullerton, Dept Kinesiol, Strength & Conditioning, Fullerton, CA 92634 USA								9							Sport Sciences	WOS:000440255800008	88	Article; Article		
J	Winkelman, Nicklaas C.								Attentional Focus and Cueing for Speed Development								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				40	1			13	25		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000266			FEB 2018	2018	Strength and conditioning professionals commonly depend on evidence to guide "what they coach" (e.g., programming), but the same cannot always be said for their approach to "how they coach" (e.g., instruction). Consequently, professionals have adopted the conventional view that coaching is more art than science, despite the fact that there are decades of research elucidating the science underpinning this so-called art. In light of this gap, this article will delve into this underpinning science and provide an evidence-based framework for instruction and cueing through the lens of linear speed development.		[Winkelman, Nicklaas C.] Irish Rugby Football Union, Athlet Performance & Sci, Dublin, Ireland; [Winkelman, Nicklaas C.] Irish Rugby Football Union, Athlet Performance & Sci, Dublin, Ireland								25							Sport Sciences	WOS:000440255800003	79	Article; Article		
J	Tierney, Gregory J.; Denvir, Karl; Farrell, Garreth; Simms, Ciaran K.								The effect of technique on tackle gainline success outcomes in elite level rugby union								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	1			16	25		10.1177/1747954117711866			FEB 2018	2018	Tackling is a major component of rugby union and effective attacking and defensive play are essential for game outcomes. In this study, a number of pre-contact, contact and post-contact tackle characteristics that had an influence on tackle gainline success for the ball carrier and tackler were identified using match video evidence from European Rugby Champions Cup games. A total of 122 front-on tackles and 111 side-on tackles were analysed. For each ball carrier and tackler characteristic, the Odds Ratio and 95% Confidence Interval were calculated based on a gainline success outcome. A Chi-Square and Phi and Cramer's V calculation was also conducted. A Chi-Square test then identified any statistically significant differences (p<0.05) for proficiency characteristics between playing position. For both the ball carrier and tackler, tackle characteristics that were indicative of strong and powerful tackle technique such as explosiveness on contact' and leg drive on contact' were effective for achieving the desired gainline outcome. Playing position had an influence on only two proficiency characteristics that were statistically significant for gainline success: fending into contact' for ball carriers and straight back, centre of gravity forward of support base' for tacklers.		[Tierney, Gregory J.; Simms, Ciaran K.] Trinity Coll Dublin, Trinity Ctr Bioengn, Dublin 2, Ireland; [Denvir, Karl; Farrell, Garreth] Leinster Rugby, Dublin, Ireland; [Tierney, Gregory J.] Trinity Coll Dublin, Trinity Ctr Bioengn, Dublin 2, Ireland								10							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000425985400002	25	Article; Article		
J	Tracy, Daniel R.; Johnson, James E.; Giannoulakis, Chrysostomos; Blom, Lindsey; Judge, Lawrence W.								Examining prior experiences and career attainment of FBS football head coaches								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	1			46	61		10.1177/1747954117746498			FEB 2018	2018	A Football Bowl Subdivision college head coach position is desired in the American football coaching profession due to associated financial benefits, social network improvements, and prestige. The rise of an individual from player, to assistant coach, and eventually head coach, is primarily understood anecdotally. This empirical evaluation of head coaching attainment provided insight into the career progression of these important sport leaders. The purpose of this study was to assess prior experiences (e.g., playing and assistant coaching) of first-time Division I Football Bowl Subdivision college football head coaches hired from 1998-1999 to 2013-2014 (n=200). Data were collected to determine if the quantity of playing and coaching experiences indicated variance within or predictability for career attainment. The five experiential categories investigated were: Playing Experience, Coaching Experience, Affiliation, Coaching Success, and Descriptive Variables. Several significant predictors among the coaching variables emerged, including coaching experience, affiliation, and past coaching success. Playing experience variables were found to be largely non-significant, suggesting that career attainment of college football coaches does not hinge on playing experience.		[Tracy, Daniel R.; Johnson, James E.; Giannoulakis, Chrysostomos; Blom, Lindsey; Judge, Lawrence W.] Ball State Univ, Coll Hlth, Sch Kinesiol, Muncie, IN 47306 USA; [Johnson, James E.] Ball State Univ, Coll Hlth, Sch Kinesiol, Muncie, IN 47306 USA								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000425985400005	70	Article; Article		
J	Al Attar, Wesam Saleh A.; Soomro, Najeebullah; Sinclair, Peter J.; Pappas, Evangelos; Muaidi, Qassim I.; Sanders, Ross H.								Implementation of an evidence-based injury prevention program in professional and semi-professional soccer								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	1			113	121		10.1177/1747954117707482			FEB 2018	2018	The ideal implementation of soccer injury prevention programs is essential knowledge for soccer coaches. The objective of this study was to investigate and compare the implementation of injury prevention programs, specially the FIFA 11+ program, among Australian and Saudi Arabian soccer coaches. A Web-based survey was used to obtain information regarding the coaches' implementation of injury prevention programs, the FIFA 11+ program, the Nordic hamstring exercise, pre- and post-training exercises. Sixty coaches30 from both selected countriesresponded to the survey (response rate=75%). In Australia, 93% of the coaches implemented an injury prevention program; while 73% implemented the FIFA 11+ program, only 51% implemented all the FIFA 11+ exercise components as recommended. In Saudi Arabia, 70% of the coaches stated that they followed an injury prevention program, but only 40% followed the FIFA 11+ program. However, 70% reported using all the FIFA 11+ exercise components in their current practices, which they may have adapted from different exercise-based injury prevention programs. The Australian coaches were significantly more likely to implement injury prevention programs (p=0.020) and the FIFA 11+ program (p=0.009). Nonetheless, no significant difference in the full implementation of the FIFA 11+ exercises components was found (p=0.114). The Australian coaches had greater awareness of injury prevention programs and more familiarity with the FIFA 11+ program than the Saudi Arabian coaches. Nevertheless, there was a gap between the coaches' knowledge and their actual practice.		[Al Attar, Wesam Saleh A.; Soomro, Najeebullah; Sinclair, Peter J.; Sanders, Ross H.] Univ Sydney, Fac Hlth Sci, Discipline Exercise & Sport Sci, 75 East St, Lidcombe, NSW 2141, Australia; [Al Attar, Wesam Saleh A.; Pappas, Evangelos] Univ Sydney, Fac Hlth Sci, Discipline Physiotherapy, Lidcombe, NSW, Australia; [Al Attar, Wesam Saleh A.] Umm Al Qura Univ, Fac Appl Med Sci, Dept Physiotherapy, Mecca, Saudi Arabia; [Soomro, Najeebullah] Monash Univ, Fac Med Nursing & Hlth Sci, Rural Hlth Mildura, Mildura, Vic, Australia; [Muaidi, Qassim I.] Univ Dammam, Fac Appl Med Sci, Dept Physiotherapy, Dammam, Saudi Arabia; [Al Attar, Wesam Saleh A.] Univ Sydney, Fac Hlth Sci, Discipline Exercise & Sport Sci, 75 East St, Lidcombe, NSW 2141, Australia								14							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000425985400012	35	Article; Article		
J	Morgan, Elle A.; Johnson, Samuel T.; Bovbjerg, Viktor E.; Norcross, Marc F.								Associations between player age and club soccer coaches' perceptions of injury risk and lower extremity injury prevention program use								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	1			122	128		10.1177/1747954117707480			FEB 2018	2018	The use of a lower extremity injury prevention program by female soccer players before the completion of puberty may mitigate movement changes that develop during puberty and contribute to post-pubescent females' greater anterior cruciate ligament-injury risk. It is unknown whether club soccer coaches are using injury prevention programs with younger athletes and if player age is associated with soccer coaches' knowledge, attitudes, and behaviors surrounding injury prevention programs. Fifty-four coaches of female soccer teams from Oregon and Washington states (USA) completed a web-based survey. Associations between team age (U9-U14 teams=57 and U15-U19 teams=19 teams) and coaches' (a) attitudes and perceptions; and (b) injury prevention program awareness, adoption, and implementation fidelity were assessed. Coaches of U15-U19 teams perceived injuries to be more of a problem and soccer to present a high risk of injury. Coaches of older teams more strongly agreed that preventive exercises should be performed by their players during training. Injury prevention program awareness among coaches of U15-U19 and U9-U14 age groups was 79% and 60%, respectively. Injury prevention program-aware coaches of U15-U19 teams were more likely to use an injury prevention program than injury prevention program-aware coaches of U9-U14 teams (67% vs. 38%), but they were not more likely to do so with high fidelity (60% vs. 54%). Team age is associated with coaches' short-term perceptions of injury risk, but not perceptions about the long-term ramifications of injury. Educating coaches about the potential benefits of injury prevention programs for mitigating injury-related maturational changes and the long-term ramifications of lower extremity injuries may facilitate greater use of injury prevention programs by coaches of younger female soccer players.		[Morgan, Elle A.] No Arizona Univ, Dept Phys Therapy & Athlet Training, Flagstaff, AZ 86011 USA; [Johnson, Samuel T.; Bovbjerg, Viktor E.; Norcross, Marc F.] Oregon State Univ, Sch Biol & Populat Hlth Sci, Corvallis, OR 97331 USA; [Norcross, Marc F.] Oregon State Univ, Coll Publ Hlth & Human Sci, Sch Biol & Populat Hlth Sci, 214A Langton Hall, Corvallis, OR 97331 USA								9							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000425985400013	24	Article; Article		
J	Godinho, Pedro; Cerqueira, Pedro								The Impact of Expectations, Match Importance, and Results in the Stock Prices of European Football Teams								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				19	2			230	278		10.1177/1527002515626222			FEB 2018	2018	We analyze the relation between stock returns and results in national league matches for 13 clubs of six European countries. We assume that the stock prices should only respond to the unexpected component of match results, and we use betting odds to separate the expected component of results from the unexpected one. We consider both the unweighted results and the results weighted by a new measure of match importance that we propose. When this measure is used, a significant relation between the results and stock performance is found for most teams.		[Godinho, Pedro; Cerqueira, Pedro] Univ Coimbra, Grp Monetary & Financial Studies GEMF, Ave Dias da Silva 165, P-3004512 Coimbra, Portugal; [Godinho, Pedro; Cerqueira, Pedro] Univ Coimbra, Fac Econ, Coimbra, Portugal; [Godinho, Pedro] Univ Coimbra, Grp Monetary & Financial Studies GEMF, Ave Dias da Silva 165, P-3004512 Coimbra, Portugal								12							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000419851600004	21	Article; Article		
J	Lewis, Michael; Yoon, Yeujun								An Empirical Examination of the Development and Impact of Star Power in Major League Baseball								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				19	2			155	187		10.1177/1527002515626220			FEB 2018	2018	We examine the processes by which star power (SP) develops and the impact of SP on both consumer demand and team performance using data from Major League Baseball. First, we examine the dynamics of stardom using data based on player salaries, performance, and award recognition. We find that SP explains additional variance in salaries beyond performance measures. Also, we examine the impact of SP on consumer demand and team success. We find that a team's stock of SP positively influences consumer demand, even after controlling for various factors ranging from team success to ticket prices.		[Lewis, Michael] Emory Univ, Goizueta Business Sch, Mkt, Atlanta, GA 30322 USA; [Yoon, Yeujun] Peking Univ, HSBC Business Sch, Mkt, Shenzhen, Peoples R China; [Yoon, Yeujun] Peking Univ, HSBC Business Sch, Shenzhen, Peoples R China								32							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000419851600001	53	Article; Article		
J	Feng, Xia; Humphreys, Brad								Assessing the Economic Impact of Sports Facilities on Residential Property Values: A Spatial Hedonic Approach								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				19	2			188	210		10.1177/1527002515622318			FEB 2018	2018	We estimate the effect of proximity to two sports facilities in Columbus, OH, on residential property values. Results from a spatial hedonic model indicate that the presence of sports facilities in Columbus have a significant, positive, and distance-decaying effect on surrounding residential housing values, supporting the idea that professional sports facilities generate intangible benefits in the local economy. Ordinary least square (OLS) overestimates the hedonic model parameters compared with maximum likelihood and spatial two-stage least squares, suggesting that spatial autocorrelation plays an important role in this setting.		[Feng, Xia] Coll William & Mary, Williamsburg, VA USA; [Humphreys, Brad] West Virginia Univ, Dept Econ, Morgantown, WV USA; [Humphreys, Brad] West Virginia Univ, Coll Business & Econ, 1601 Univ Ave,POB 6025, Morgantown, WV 26506 USA								70							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000419851600002	31	Article; Article		
J	Morgan, O. Ashton; Whitehead, John C.								Willingness to Pay for Soccer Player Development in the United States								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				19	2			279	296		10.1177/1527002515611463			FEB 2018	2018	American households' willingness to pay (WTP) for soccer player development is measured using the contingent valuation method. Data are drawn from two national surveys administered before and after the 2014 World Cup event. Individuals are asked whether they perceive that additional funding for player development will improve the chances of the national team's performance at the 2018 World Cup and whether they are willing to pay an annual household tax to fund the program. A bivariate probit model accounts for correlation between the two decisions. WTP estimates indicate that the intangible benefits of player development are roughly twice the cost.		[Morgan, O. Ashton; Whitehead, John C.] Appalachian State Univ, Dept Econ, 3094 Peacock Hall,416 Howard St, Boone, NC 28607 USA; [Morgan, O. Ashton] Appalachian State Univ, Dept Econ, 3094 Peacock Hall,416 Howard St, Boone, NC 28607 USA								8							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000419851600005	31	Article; Article		
J	Nimphius, Sophia; Callaghan, Samuel J.; Bezodis, Neil E.; Lockie, Robert G.								Change of Direction and Agility Tests: Challenging Our Current Measures of Performance								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				40	1			26	38		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000309			FEB 2018	2018	The ability to change direction is a highly valued athletic quality in sport and has been measured extensively. Despite the importance and magnitude of research on change of direction (cod) and agility, the validity of the performance measures used to assess these abilities have faced limited scrutiny. A critical evaluation of our current measures of cod and agility are presented. Furthermore, a summary of recommendations to enhance the validity of cod and agility assessment is provided in the ultimate effort to improve our understanding of this crucial athletic quality. A video abstract describing this article can be found in supplemental digital content 1 (see video, http://links.lww.com/SCJ/A217).		[Nimphius, Sophia; Callaghan, Samuel J.] Edith Cowan Univ, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, Ctr Exercise & Sports Sci Res, Joondalup, Australia; [Nimphius, Sophia] Softball Western Australia, Perth, WA, Australia; [Bezodis, Neil E.] Swansea Univ, Appl Sports Technol Exercise & Med Res Ctr, Swansea, W Glam, Wales; [Lockie, Robert G.] Calif State Univ Fullerton, Dept Kinesiol, Ctr Sport Performance, Fullerton, CA 92634 USA; [Nimphius, Sophia] Edith Cowan Univ, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, Ctr Exercise & Sports Sci Res, Joondalup, Australia; [Nimphius, Sophia] Softball Western Australia, Perth, WA, Australia								228							Sport Sciences	WOS:000440255800004	108	Article; Article		
J	Liu, Yuxin; Mao, Lida; Zhao, Yunan; Huang, Yufang								Impact of a Simulated Stress Training Program on the Tactical Shooting Performance of SWAT Trainees								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				89	4			482	489		10.1080/02701367.2018.1526003			2018	2018	Purpose: To create a high-stress shooting among the crowd (SAC) program and to examine its effectiveness in reducing SWAT trainees' stress level and their shooting performance in a simulated hostage-rescue situation. Method: After the SAC program was created, it was evaluated using a pretest and posttest experimental design: 98 young male SWAT trainees were randomly divided into experiment and control groups, with the former group trained in hostage rescue, shooting with real persons (high stress), and the latter group trained with dummy men (low stress); training for both lasted three days. Their shooting performance was assessed by a tactical shooting test in both high- and low-stress tests in a counterbalanced order, before and after the training, and monitored during the training, as were their stress levels by a set of physical (heart rate [HR] and heart rate recovery time [HRRt]), psychological (salivary cortisol and -amylase), and self-reported anxiety measures. Results: The SAC program created needed high-stress for hostage rescue situations as reflected in increased physical, psychological, and anxiety scores and reduced shooting performance. Even with short SAC training, SWAT trainees' capacity in handling high stress and tactical shooting performance were significantly improved. HR, HRRt, and anxiety tests have been found to be effective in monitoring stress and should be a part of future SWAT training. Conclusion: A SAC program involving real people was created, and its effectiveness was confirmed using a pretest and posttest experimental design.		[Liu, Yuxin; Zhao, Yunan; Huang, Yufang] Nanjing Univ Chinese Med, Nanjing, Jiangsu, Peoples R China; [Liu, Yuxin; Mao, Lida] Nanjing Forest Police Coll, Nanjing, Jiangsu, Peoples R China; [Huang, Yufang] Nanjing Univ Chinese Med, Sch Med & Life Sci, Key Lab Brain Res, Nanjing 210023, Jiangsu, Peoples R China								18							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000452006100012	24	Article; Article		
J	Liang, Huai-Liang; Lin, Ping-I								Influence of multiple endorser-product patterns on purchase intention: An interpretation of elaboration likelihood model								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				19	4			415	432		10.1108/IJSMS-03-2017-0022			2018	2018	Purpose Enterprises must select the best optimal endorser-product fit in order to maximize the limited budget available for endorsements. Previous studies have determined that the influence of athlete endorsers is greater than is that of celebrity endorsers on consumer attitudes toward sport products. However, different endorsers may possess different levels of influence on products. The paper aims to discuss these issues. Design/methodology/approach This study developed two field experiments to investigate the influence of endorser-product fits on consumer purchase intentions. Participants in Study 1 were 295 individuals (220 male consumers, 75 female consumers, M age=32 yr) in the two Baseball Stadiums in Taiwan. Participants in Study 2 were 317 EMBA students (204 men, 113 women, M age=34 yr) at a certain university in Taiwan. Findings The results determined no significant moderating effect of celebrity endorser-product fit and purchase intention, whereas athlete endorser-product fit enhanced consumers' purchase intentions in low product involvement scenarios. In high product involvement scenarios, a moderating relationship between endorser-product fit and purchase intentions was observed. These findings can provide a reference regarding endorsers and product patterns for enterprises to maximize the value of endorsers. Originality/value Using the multiple endorser-product patterns, this study provides useful findings in terms of the perceived value of endorser-product and purchase intention. The results of this study can help enterprises to choose the most suitable endorser when they are subject to budget constraints. Detailed descriptions of the expected results and discussion are reported in the text.		[Liang, Huai-Liang] ROC Air Force Inst Technol, Dept Management, Kaohsiung, Taiwan; [Lin, Ping-I] SHE TU Univ, Dept Recreat & Sport Management, Kaohsiung, Taiwan; [Liang, Huai-Liang] ROC Air Force Inst Technol, Dept Management, Kaohsiung, Taiwan								23							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000449486500004	46	Article; Article		
J	Haro-Gonzalez, Monica; Perez-Ordas, Raquel; Grao-Cruces, Alberto; Nuviala, Roman; Nuviala, Alberto								Female users of unisex fitness centres and of fitness centres exclusive for women: satisfaction								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				19	4			384	395		10.1108/IJSMS-08-2016-0044			2018	2018	Purpose The purpose of this paper is to determine how an instrument - designed to assess quality, value, and satisfaction - works, and compare results obtained in female users of unisex sports services and fitness centres and female users of exclusively female sports services and fitness centres. Design/methodology/approach A total of 745 women belonging to 62 sports services and fitness centres took part in this study; 36.60 per cent were members of female-exclusive centres. The average age was 32.9714.11 years. In total, 38.70 per cent of the women surveyed used the sports services and fitness centres twice a week for 66.3732.87 minutes on average. The EPOD2 questionnaire was used. This instrument is made up of 25 items and measures quality, value, and satisfaction. The invariance of the factorial structure in the two groups was verified and regression coefficients were calculated for the relationships in the model. Findings The model is stable in both of the groups. Quality is a predecessor of value and satisfaction. Value is related to a large extent to Satisfaction. The dimensions of quality (activity, sports instructors, service personnel, and space) are directly related to value and/or satisfaction. There are significant differences in the standardised values that relate quality and its dimensions with the value and satisfaction between women users of female-exclusive centres and women users of unisex centres. Originality/value This paper is important because the findings of this study can be applicable to help sports services and fitness centres, whether unisex centres or female-exclusive centres, obtain better assessments from female users.		[Haro-Gonzalez, Monica; Perez-Ordas, Raquel] Pablo Olavide Univ, Dept Sport & Comp Sci, Seville, Spain; [Grao-Cruces, Alberto; Nuviala, Roman] Univ Cadiz, Fac Educ Sci, Dept Phys Educ, Puerto Real, Spain; [Nuviala, Alberto] Pablo Olavide Univ, Dept Sport & Comp Sci, Seville, Spain; [Nuviala, Alberto] Pablo Olavide Univ, Dept Sport & Comp Sci, Seville, Spain								23							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000449486500002	42	Article; Article		
J	Lee, J. Lucy; Kim, Yukyoum; Won, June								Sports brand positioning: Positioning congruence and consumer perceptions toward brands								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				19	4			450	471		10.1108/IJSMS-03-2017-0018			2018	2018	Purpose The purpose of this paper is to identify the location of sport brands in sport consumers' minds using a perceptual map of multiple positions; and examine whether there is congruence between the sport brands' purported images and the targeted consumers' perception of the brands' images. Design/methodology/approach A mixed method was used. Four steps of data collections (i.e. face-to-face, focus group interviews, and questionnaires) and analyses (i.e. content analysis, MDS analysis, PROXSCAL analysis, multiple regressions analysis, frequency analysis, and congruence score) were performed. Findings Four positioning typologies (i.e. great quality equipment, equipment for professionals, innovation, and tradition) were identified; each brand's positions in consumers' minds were distinctly portrayed in the perceptual map; and the congruence between intended and perceived positions was found in two brands - Titleist and Ping - implying they established a high position-congruity and providing evidence of positioning effectiveness. Practical implications The findings will aid practitioners and scholars in positioning and its effectiveness: the results provide information for managers to select, implement, and manage effective positioning strategies and the study provides initial evidence about whether companies and their brands are well-positioned in the sport consumer's perception. Originality/value The authors attempt to examine how consumers perceive brands and how effectively brand positions are portrayed in consumers' minds. The effectiveness and competitiveness of positioning strategies were examined via a perceptional map.		[Lee, J. Lucy] Bowling Green State Univ, Sch Human Movement Sport & Leisure Studies, Bowling Green, OH 43403 USA; [Kim, Yukyoum] Seoul Natl Univ, Seoul, South Korea; [Won, June] Bowling Green State Univ, Sch Educ Fdn Leadership & Policy, Bowling Green, OH 43403 USA; [Lee, J. Lucy] Bowling Green State Univ, Sch Human Movement Sport & Leisure Studies, Bowling Green, OH 43403 USA								22							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000449486500006	75	Article; Article		
J	Gourlan, Mathieu; Boiche, Julie; Takito, Monica; Fregeac, Bruno; Cousson-Gelie, Florence								Predicting Physical Activity Among Children: Investigating Interaction Effects in the Theory of Planned Behavior								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				89	4			490	497		10.1080/02701367.2018.1517236			2018	2018	Purpose: The theory of planned behavior (TPB) has been criticized for not including interactions between the variables assumed to predict behavior. This study sought to test how TPB variables interact to predict physical activity (PA) in children. Method: Four hundred thirty-eight children (M-age=8.6 years, SD=1.6years) completed a TPB questionnaire and a PA questionnaire at Time 1. The PA measure was repeated 2months later. Path analyses were performed to test the hypothesized model including interaction terms between TPB variables. Simple slopes analyses were also carried out to examine the statistically significant interaction terms. Results: Path analyses confirmed the classical hypotheses of TPB (R-2 for intentions=.39, R-2 for PA=.12) and also demonstrated only statistically significant Attitudes x Perceived Behavioral Control and Subjective Norms x Attitudes interactions (R-2 change for intentions=.01, p=.009). Simple slopes analyses revealed that the strength of the association between perceived behavioral control and intentions was only statistically significantly higher (t=2.18, p=.05, d=0.34, 95% CI [0.03, 0.65]) when attitudes were high compared with when attitudes were low. The link between attitudes and intentions was only statistically significant at a low level of subjective norms but not at a high level. Conclusion: The integration of interaction effects between TPB variables did not increase for the variance of PA explained by the model. More research appears to be necessary to explore how the TPB could be augmented to better predict PA in children.		[Gourlan, Mathieu; Cousson-Gelie, Florence] Montpellier Canc Inst, Prevent Dept, Epidaure, 208 Ave Apothicaires, F-34298 Montpellier 5, France; [Gourlan, Mathieu; Boiche, Julie; Cousson-Gelie, Florence] Univ Paul Valery Montpellier 3, Univ Montpellier, EPSYLON EA 4556, Montpellier, France; [Takito, Monica] Univ Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Fregeac, Bruno] Acad Resource Ctr Herault Dedicated Hlth Promot, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Gourlan, Mathieu] Montpellier Canc Inst, Prevent Dept, Epidaure, 208 Ave Apothicaires, F-34298 Montpellier 5, France								10							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000452006100013	23	Article; Article		
J	Coolkens, Rosalie; Ward, Phillip; Seghers, Jan; Iserbyt, Peter								Effects of Generalization of Engagement in Parkour from Physical Education to Recess on Physical Activity								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				89	4			429	439		10.1080/02701367.2018.1521912			2018	2018	Purpose: To investigate the effect of generalization of engagement in parkour from physical education (PE) to organized and supervised recess on voluntary participation and moderate-to-vigorous physical activity (MVPA). Method: Children received a 6-day parkour unit in PE and every two lessons they could voluntarily participate in 20-min parkour recess. Fourteen elementary school classes constituting 281 children (8-10years old) and 16 PE teachers were randomized to either three supervised or three organized parkour recess sessions. During supervised recess, PE teachers supervised to ensure safety, and children could play freely on the parkour landscape. During organized recess, PE teachers provided instructional tasks as well as supervision for safety on the parkour landscape. The parkour landscape in the gymnasium was identical in both recess conditions and similar to previous parkour landscape in PE. Participation and MVPA were measured using systematic observation. Results: Significantly more children from organized compared to supervised recess participated in all three sessions (60% vs. 43%, p=.008, V=.16). Children showed significantly less sedentary behavior (24% vs. 30%, p=.013, (2)=.063) and more MVPA (76% vs. 70%, p=.012, (2)=.066) during organized compared to supervised recess. The proportion of total MVPA spent doing parkour was significantly higher in organized compared to supervised recess for low- (36% vs. 24%, p=.005, (2)=.082) and high-skilled children (33% vs. 26%, p=.034, (2)=.048). Conclusion: Generalization of engagement in parkour was higher in organized compared to supervised recess.		[Coolkens, Rosalie; Seghers, Jan; Iserbyt, Peter] Katholieke Univ Leuven, Leuven, Belgium; [Ward, Phillip] Ohio State Univ, Columbus, OH 43210 USA; [Coolkens, Rosalie] Katholieke Univ Leuven, Dept Movement Sci, Tervuursevest 101, B-3001 Leuven, Belgium								21							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000452006100006	44	Article; Article		
J	Brusseau, Timothy A.; Burns, Ryan D.								Physical Activity, Health-Related Fitness, and Classroom Behavior in Children: A Discriminant Function Analysis								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				89	4			411	417		10.1080/02701367.2018.1519521			2018	2018	Purpose: The purpose of this study was to examine the predictive relationship among physical activity, health-related fitness, and on-task classroom behavior in children using a discriminant function analysis. Method: Participants were a convenience sample of children (N=533; M-age=8.8 +/- 1.9 years) recruited from 77 1st- through 5th-grade classrooms at 3 low-income schools in a capital city in the Southwest United States. Percent of the school day spent in sedentary behavior (%SED), moderate-to-vigorous physical activity (%MVPA), and health-related fitness scores (body mass index [BMI] and Progressive Aerobic Cardiovascular Endurance Run [PACER] laps) were assessed during school hours. Classrooms were observed for on-task behavior during the academic year with the use of 5-s momentary time sampling methodology. A discriminant function analysis was performed using a binary on-task behavior outcome, stratified by an 80% on-task behavior cut point. Results: The results yielded 1 function (r(2)=.26, F=13.1) explaining approximately one quarter of the total variance. The standardized function coefficients were -.29, .29, -.48, and .48 for %SED, %MVPA, BMI, and PACER laps, respectively. The sensitivity and specificity of the derived function for classifying a child into an on-task or off-task classroom were .79 and .73, respectively. Children who belonged to classrooms that achieved 80% on-task behavior displayed shorter times in sedentary behaviors (d=1.01), lower BMI (d=0.13), and higher PACER scores (d=0.22) compared with children who belonged to off-task classrooms. Conclusion: School-day physical activity behaviors and health-related fitness scores can moderately discriminate children who belong to classrooms from low-income schools that are categorized as being sufficiently on task.		[Brusseau, Timothy A.; Burns, Ryan D.] Univ Utah, Salt Lake City, UT 84112 USA; [Brusseau, Timothy A.] Univ Utah, Dept Hlth Kinesiol & Recreat, 250 S 1850 E Rm 252, Salt Lake City, UT 84112 USA								12							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000452006100004	40	Article; Article		
J	Whyte, Enda F.; Kennelly, Patrick; Milton, Oliver; Richter, Chris; O'Connor, Siobhan; Moran, Kieran A.								The effects of limb dominance and a short term, high intensity exercise protocol on both landings of the vertical drop jump: implications for the vertical drop jump as a screening tool								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				17	4			541	553		10.1080/14763141.2017.1371215			2018	2018	The effectiveness of vertical drop jumps (VDJs) to screen for non-contact ACL injuries is unclear. This may be contributed to by discrete point analysis, which does not evaluate patterns of movement. Also, limited research exists on the second landing of VDJs, potential lower limb performance asymmetries and the effect of fatigue. Statistical parametric mapping investigated the main effects of landing, limb dominance and a high intensity, intermittent exercise protocol (HIIP) on VDJ biomechanics. Twenty-two male athletes (21.9 +/- 1.1years, 180.5 +/- 5.5cm, 79.4 +/- 7.8kg) performed VDJs pre- and post-HIIP. Repeated measures ANOVA identified pattern differences during the eccentric phases of the first and second landings bilaterally. The first landing displayed greater (internal) knee flexor ((2)=0.165), external rotator ((2)=0.113) and valgus ((2)=0.126) moments and greater hip ((2)=0.062) and knee ((2)=0.080) flexion. The dominant limb generated greater knee flexor ((2)=0.062), external rotator ((2)=0.110) and valgus ((2)=0.065) moments. The HIIP only had one effect, increased thoracic flexion relative to the pelvis ((2)=0.088). Finally, the dominant limb demonstrated greater knee extensor moments during the second landing ((2)=0.100). ACL injury risk factors were present in both landings of VDJs with the dominant limb at potentially greater injury risk. Therefore, VDJ screenings should analyse both landings bilaterally.		[Whyte, Enda F.; Kennelly, Patrick; Milton, Oliver; O'Connor, Siobhan; Moran, Kieran A.] Dublin City Univ, Sch Hlth & Human Performance, Dublin, Ireland; [Richter, Chris] Sports Surg Clin, Sports Med Res Ctr, Dublin, Ireland; [Whyte, Enda F.] Dublin City Univ, Sch Hlth & Human Performance, Dublin, Ireland								15							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000445798400010	50	Article; Article		
J	Sheerin, Kelly R.; Besier, Thor F.; Reid, Duncan; Hume, Patria A.								The one-week and six-month reliability and variability of three-dimensional tibial acceleration in runners								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				17	4			531	540		10.1080/14763141.2017.1371214			2018	2018	Tibial acceleration is a surrogate measure for impact loading and lower limb fatigue injury in runners. Triaxial accelerometers may offer reliable and practical measurement of resultant peak tibial acceleration (PTA). With such potential in mind, this study examined variability and measurement reliability of tibial acceleration in 14 runners at baseline at one week, and eight of the runners again at six months. Triaxial accelerometers were attached to the distal tibiae of runners before they ran on a treadmill for two minutes each, at speeds of 2.7, 3.0, 3.3 and 3.7m/s in standardised shoes. Resultant PTAs were calculated for each speed and session. Reliability outcomes were presented as percentage change and effect sizes. Variability outcomes included intraclass correlation coefficients and the typical error of the measurement. Smallest worthwhile change and performance/noise ratio were also calculated. While runners demonstrated marginally lower reliability and higher variability over six months, compared to one week, in all cases the measures of reliability and variability were of good' to moderate' reliability, and small' to moderate' variability using magnitude-based inferences. We can be confident that resultant PTA can be used with runners to assess and monitor their impacts throughout a six-month intervention.		[Sheerin, Kelly R.; Besier, Thor F.; Reid, Duncan; Hume, Patria A.] Auckland Univ Technol, Sch Sport & Recreat, Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand SPRINZ, Auckland, New Zealand; [Besier, Thor F.] Univ Auckland, Auckland Bioengn Inst, Auckland, New Zealand; [Besier, Thor F.] Univ Auckland, Dept Engn Sci, Auckland, New Zealand; [Hume, Patria A.] Auckland Univ Technol, Natl Inst Stroke & Appl Neurosci NISAN, Auckland, New Zealand; [Sheerin, Kelly R.] Auckland Univ Technol, Sch Sport & Recreat, Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand SPRINZ, Auckland, New Zealand								44							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000445798400009	36	Article; Article		
J	Iga, Takahito; Nunome, Hiroyuki; Sano, Shinya; Sato, Nahoko; Ikegami, Yasuo								Novel mathematical model to estimate ball impact force in soccer								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				17	4			477	493		10.1080/14763141.2017.1364415			2018	2018	To assess ball impact force during soccer kicking is important to quantify from both performance and chronic injury prevention perspectives. We aimed to verify the appropriateness of previous models used to estimate ball impact force and to propose an improved model to better capture the time history of ball impact force. A soccer ball was fired directly onto a force platform (10kHz) at five realistic kicking ball velocities and ball behaviour was captured by a high-speed camera (5,000Hz). The time history of ball impact force was estimated using three existing models and two new models. A new mathematical model that took into account a rapid change in ball surface area and heterogeneous ball deformation showed a distinctive advantage to estimate the peak forces and its occurrence times and to reproduce time history of ball impact forces more precisely, thereby reinforcing the possible mechanics of footballer's ankle'. Ball impact time was also systematically shortened when ball velocity increases in contrast to practical understanding for producing faster ball velocity, however, the aspect of ball contact time must be considered carefully from practical point of view.		[Iga, Takahito; Nunome, Hiroyuki] Fukuoka Univ, Fac Sports & Hlth Sci, Fukuoka, Fukuoka, Japan; [Sano, Shinya] Gifu City Womens Coll, Dept Cross Cultural Studies, Gifu, Japan; [Sato, Nahoko] Nagoya Gakuin Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Fac Rehabil Sci, Seto, Japan; [Ikegami, Yasuo] Aichi Shukutoku Univ, Fac Hlth & Med Sci, Nagakute, Aichi, Japan; [Iga, Takahito] Fukuoka Univ, Fac Sports & Hlth Sci, Fukuoka, Fukuoka, Japan								3							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000445798400005	15	Article; Article		
J	Lee, Sangwoo; DeRosia, Kyle D.; Lamie, Landon M.								Evaluating the contribution of lower extremity kinetics to whole body power output during the power snatch								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				17	4						10.1080/14763141.2017.1371216			2018	2018	This study evaluated the contribution of lower extremity (hip, knee and ankle) net joint torques (NJT) to whole body power (WBP) output during the power snatch (PS). Ten experienced weightlifters (five males and five females) performed five trials of the PS with 60% of one repetition maximum. Lower extremity NJT and WBP were extracted through a three-dimensional motion analyses and used for data analyses. Pearson correlation coefficients were obtained to observe the relationship between lower extremity NJT and WBP. Multiple-regression (stepwise) analyses was also conducted to evaluate the contribution of lower extremity NJT to WBP during the PS with the hip, knee and ankle NJT being the independent variables. Hip NJT was characterised as a significant positive correlation with WBP (r=0.47, p<0.01), while knee NJT showed a significant negative correlation with WBP (r=-0.34, p<0.05). A significant inter-correlation was also observed between hip NJT and knee NJT (r=-0.66, p<0.01). Hip NJT was identified as a significant contributor to WBP during the PS. Practically, this study suggested that training skills allowing weightlifters to utilise hip extensor muscle action would help to improve WBP during the PS.		[Lee, Sangwoo; DeRosia, Kyle D.; Lamie, Landon M.] Western Michigan Univ, Coll Educ & Human Dev, Dept Human Performance & Hlth Educ, Kalamazoo, MI 49008 USA; [Lee, Sangwoo] Western Michigan Univ, Coll Educ & Human Dev, Dept Human Performance & Hlth Educ, Kalamazoo, MI 49008 USA								10							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000445798400011	36	Article; Article		
J	Marchesseault, Erin Renee; Nguyen, Daniel; Spahr, Lee; Beals, Caroline; Razak, Brian; Rosene, John M.								Head impacts and cognitive performance in men's lacrosse								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				46	3			324	330		10.1080/00913847.2018.1470888			2018	2018	Objectives: The purpose of this investigation was to record head impacts and assess cognitive function throughout a NCAA Division III men's lacrosse season. Methods: Fifteen NCAA Div III men's lacrosse players (age=21.11.5years; height=1797.00cm; weight=80.74 +/- 8.00kg) wore Smart Impact Monitors (SIM) (Triax Technologies, Inc., Norwalk, CT) within headbands, in 28 practices and 9 home games of one season. The SIM devices communicated with the Triax Technologies SKYi, which confirmed activated SIMs and obtained data of linear acceleration, rotational acceleration, rotational velocity, direction, and location of each head impact. A minimum threshold of 15g of force was set for head impacts to register with the SIMs. The Comprehensive Trail Making Test and Stroop Color and Word Test were administered at preseason, midseason, and postseason to assess cognitive function performance. Results: There was no significant difference found between all measures of frequency and magnitude of head impacts between games and practices. There was also no significant difference for peak linear acceleration of head impacts between different positions and no significant difference between the magnitude of force and the location of impact on the head. There was a significant increase in CTMT performance from preseason to midseason, from midseason to postseason, and preseason to postseason. There was no significant difference in Stroop test performance throughout the season. Conclusion: Subconcussive head impacts in men's lacrosse appear to occur at the same magnitude in practices and games, and do not appear to be position dependent, nor head location dependent. Men's lacrosse athletes' cognitive function as measured by the CTMT, can improve, while cognitive function as measured by the Stroop test remained unchanged.		[Marchesseault, Erin Renee; Nguyen, Daniel; Spahr, Lee; Razak, Brian; Rosene, John M.] Univ New England, Exercise & Sport Performance, 11 Hills Beach Rd, Biddeford, ME 04005 USA; [Beals, Caroline] Univ New England, Hlth Wellness & Occupat Studies, Biddeford, ME 04005 USA; [Rosene, John M.] Univ New England, Exercise & Sport Performance, 11 Hills Beach Rd, Biddeford, ME 04005 USA								7							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000443915700010	32	Article; Article		
J	DeFroda, Steven F.; Milner, John D.; Bokshan, Steven L.; Owens, Brett D.								Internet accuracy of publicly available images of meniscal tears								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				46	4			499	502		10.1080/00913847.2018.1513755			2018	2018	Background: The Internet is an easily accessible resource for both providers and patients. Despite this, the Internet is not peer reviewed, leaving Internet searches subject to inaccuracies, especially with regards to medical information. The purpose of this study was to review Internet images of meniscus tears using three popular search engines: Google, Bing, and Yahoo. Methods: A search query was performed on the aforementioned search engines for the term: 'meniscus tear'. The first 100 images found for each individual search were analyzed by two independent reviewers with different levels of orthopedic training (orthopedic surgery resident and medical student). Inter-rate reliability and accuracy was determined for each of the search engines. The images were defined based on the source that published the image as either educational (published by hospital or medical association), commercial (published by a device company), or individual (published via a physician). Results: The inter-rater reliability was excellent (Cronbach's alpha = 0.91), (Cronbach's alpha = 0.94), (Cronbach's alpha >0.90) on Google, Bing, and Yahoo, respectively. When comparing the search engines for correctness, Google had 82% accuracy, compared to 81% for Bing and Yahoo. All three search engines have a similar mix of source material with educational images consisting of 86% of Google images, 84% for Yahoo, and 89% for Bing. Conclusion: Our study revealed that the three search engines queried displayed meniscal tear images with >80% accuracy when evaluated by two independent reviewers. Despite this, many images may still be seen as highly technical, or esoteric to an untrained individual. Ultimately, physicians should take an active role in making high quality, easy to understand medical resources, and anatomic diagrams available to their patients to avoid confusion and enhance understanding.		[DeFroda, Steven F.; Milner, John D.; Bokshan, Steven L.; Owens, Brett D.] Brown Univ, Warren Alpert Sch Med, Dept Orthopaed Surg, 100 Butler Dr, Providence, RI 02906 USA; [Owens, Brett D.] Brown Univ, Warren Alpert Sch Med, Dept Orthopaed Surg, 100 Butler Dr, Providence, RI 02906 USA								2							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000452020500015	12	Article; Article		
J	Hildenbrand, Kasee; Richards, K. Andrew R.; Wright, Paul M.								Physical Education Teachers' Awareness and Understanding of Concussions, and Concussion Policies and Protocols								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				89	3			361	366		10.1080/02701367.2018.1472735			2018	2018	Purpose: Our primary aim was to determine physical educators' current level of understanding of concussion symptoms and response guidelines. Method: Participants included 404 in-service physical educators (137 male, 266 female, 1 other) recruited through 3 SHAPE America - Society of Health and Physical Educators communication outlets. Participants were asked to complete an online survey. The survey included 8 questions related to previous concussion training, 6 items to measure awareness of concussion policies, 20 items related to concussion symptoms, and 14 items for concussion knowledge. Analyses included descriptive statistics and 2x2 (Coaching x Concussion) factorial analyses of variance to examine differences in study variables by coaching status and participants' personal concussion experiences. Results: Participants reported they did not have any formal role or responsibility related to concussion management, and more than half reported their districts did not require concussion training. Nevertheless, many physical educators were receiving training (n=291, 72%). Participants who also coached were more aware of concussion policies and systems than were their counterparts, but there were no differences related to concussion facts. Conclusion: School districts are generally not requiring concussion management training for physical education teachers or giving them specific responsibilities in the management process, yet many physical educators are getting trained. This training often occurs online and may be required for secondary responsibilities such as coaching. Participants reported being aware of concussion policies and procedures but were less likely to agree that this awareness has resulted in changes in how they teach physical education. Participants also knew more about concussion facts than about the legitimacy of symptoms.		[Hildenbrand, Kasee] Washington State Univ, Pullman, WA 99164 USA; [Richards, K. Andrew R.] Univ Alabama, Tuscaloosa, AL 35487 USA; [Wright, Paul M.] Northern Illinois Univ, De Kalb, IL 60115 USA; [Hildenbrand, Kasee] Washington State Univ, Athlet Training Program, Smith Gym 211C, Pullman, WA 99164 USA								9							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000442649800011	17	Article; Article		
J	Vredenburg, Jessica; Giroux, Marilyn								What did Ryan Lochte do? The double-edged sword of endorsers behaving badly								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				19	3			290	305		10.1108/IJSMS-02-2017-0012			2018	2018	Purpose Endorsement deals are a key contributing factor for companies to gain brand recognition and positive brand associations from consumers. However, endorsement relationships can be risky for firms in the event of an endorser's bad behavior or involvement in scandals. The purpose of this paper is to examine how brands can use endorsement exit strategies to minimize and even benefit from negative situations involving its endorser. Design/methodology/approach After a review of celebrity endorsement literature, the paper investigates the Rio Olympic Games robbery scandal involving American swimmer Ryan Lochte as a detailed case. By studying the timeline of sponsor-related activities, relevant theories and brand outcomes through Google Trends, indications of a calculated and strategic exit from the endorsement relationship emerge. Findings The case analysis establishes that sponsors can successfully leverage the negative associations toward a disgraced endorser. Based on the process of meaning transfer, this case proposes that sponsors can benefit from its public dissociation from the endorser and gain awareness from this separation. Originality/value This paper is the first study to examine the positive impact of a celebrity endorsement scandal. It highlights the need for managers to actively prepare endorsement exit strategies in the event of negative associations or endorser actions. The timing and scope of the exit strategy can both limit negative meaning transfer, and leverage the situation creating positive perceptions of integrity and ethics for the sponsor.		[Vredenburg, Jessica; Giroux, Marilyn] Auckland Univ Technol, Dept Mkt Advertising Retailing & Sales, Auckland, New Zealand; [Vredenburg, Jessica] Auckland Univ Technol, Dept Mkt Advertising Retailing & Sales, Auckland, New Zealand								12							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000440938600003	64	Article; Article		
J	Puente-Diaz, Rogelio; Cavazos-Arroyo, Judith								The role of the categorization process on the influence of a famous football player on the evaluations of a football team								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				19	3			327	337		10.1108/IJSMS-09-2016-0052			2018	2018	Purpose The purpose of this paper is to examine how the categorization of a football player influences the evaluations of a football team among participants from Mexico and to test for the moderating role of need for closure. In order to test the hypotheses, the authors conduct two experiments. Design/methodology/approach The authors used an empirimental approach. Specifically in the experimental condition, the authors brought to mind, in one condition, the team membership of Lionel Messi and assessed the evaluations of Barcelona FC. In the control condition, the authors did not bring to mind the membership of Lionel Messi and only assessed the evaluations of Barcelona FC. Findings Results from two experiments showed that Barcelona FC obtained better evaluations when participants assigned Messi as one of its players. Evaluations were not moderated by a variable known to influence information processing such as need for closure. Originality/value It is a psychological truism that human judgments are context dependent. How good one judges a football team to be, depends not only on the specific qualities of the team, but also on the standard of comparison used to make that judgment. Surprisingly, scant attention has been given to context effects in team or player evaluations (see Puente-Diaz and Puente-Diaz, 2014 for an exception). The investigation seeks to fill this gap.		[Puente-Diaz, Rogelio] Univ Anahuac Mexico Norte, Dept Econ & Business, Huixquilucan, Mexico; [Cavazos-Arroyo, Judith] Univ Popular Autonoma Estado Puebla, Interdisciplinary Postgrad Ctr, Puebla, Mexico; [Puente-Diaz, Rogelio] Univ Anahuac Mexico Norte, Dept Econ & Business, Huixquilucan, Mexico								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000440938600005	27	Article; Article		
J	McCormick, Karla								Impact of athletic star power on product consumption								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				19	3			306	326		10.1108/IJSMS-06-2016-0030			2018	2018	Purpose The purpose of this paper is to determine if the star power of an athletic endorser influenced consumers' consumption of the advertised product. Specifically, does the amount of star power an athlete is thought to have impact consumers' direct consumption of the advertised product and media consumption of the athlete? Moreover, the components of star power, along with congruency measures, were examined to determine which components of star power influenced both direct and media consumption. Design/methodology/approach Four advertisements were created that used an athlete with high star power and an athlete with low star power. Respondents viewed two of the advertisements, but did not know which athlete had high star power or low star power. They were asked to answer a questionnaire that contained questions pertaining to the components of star power (source attractiveness, source credibility, professional trustworthiness, likeable personality and character style), congruency of the athlete and product, direct consumption of the advertised product and media consumption of the athlete. Findings Results indicated that overall star power increased the direct consumption of the advertised product and the media consumption of the athlete, however not each component was found to be significant. Character style was the only component that was consistently significant across all four advertisements. The congruency between the athlete and product was also found to be significant across all four advertisements. Research limitations/implications First, this study only looked at two athletes; others may generate different results. Second, the products used in the study were fashion related; other categories of products may also generate different relationships. Third, only two brands were used. It was also assumed that the respondents knew the athlete in the advertisement. Finally, the questions used to measure direct consumption did not distinguish between buying the brand in the store or online. Originality/value This study has the potential to contribute theoretically by analyzing how and which components of star power affect consumption of endorsed products, as well as which components influence consumers. Moreover, adding a congruency measure will aide in strengthening the measurement of endorser effectiveness. The justification of the present study lies in the need to determine how the dimensions of star power an athlete possesses contribute to the consumption behaviors of consumers.		[McCormick, Karla] Florida State Univ, Tallahassee, FL 32306 USA; [McCormick, Karla] Florida State Univ, Tallahassee, FL 32306 USA								15							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000440938600004	62	Article; Article		
J	Feng, Yan; Lu, Jia; Yoon, Yeujun								Impact of international sports events on the attendance of domestic sports league games using Chinese Super League data								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				19	3			258	275		10.1108/IJSMS-06-2016-0036			2018	2018	Purpose Experiences of high quality games between top-class sports teams could influence sports fans' decision to attend the domestic sports games. For example, soccer fans who watched the World Cup games between the best national teams are likely to be disappointed with the performance of their domestic league teams after the World Cup event, while more people might be attracted to watch a soccer game because of their increased interest in soccer games. The purpose of this paper is to investigate how the international sports event (i.e. the World Cup) influences the demand of the domestic sports league games in the non-hosting country. Design/methodology/approach To test these antithetical hypotheses, the authors collect the Chinese Super League game-level data from 2004 to 2011. For analysis, the authors propose two empirical models rigorously developed based on previous sports marketing theories. Findings The findings are surprising compared to previous studies for the hosting countries or countries that performed spectacularly during the World Cup tournaments. The authors find that the international event negatively influences the attendance of domestic games. Specifically, it gives salience to the competitive quality of a match and helps enhance the impact of star players. Furthermore, the authors find evidence of dynamic effects of the international event. Originality/value The study contributes to the previous sports literatures by expanding our understanding of the effect of international sports events. Particularly, the results shed light on international events' impact on the domestic sports league demand in more general conditions based on its influence on people's behavior, rather than focusing on the effect caused by facility development or dramatic performance during the international event.		[Feng, Yan; Lu, Jia; Yoon, Yeujun] Peking Univ, HSBC Business Sch, Shenzhen, Peoples R China; [Yoon, Yeujun] Kyung Hee Univ, Sch Management, Seoul, South Korea; [Yoon, Yeujun] Peking Univ, HSBC Business Sch, Shenzhen, Peoples R China; [Yoon, Yeujun] Kyung Hee Univ, Sch Management, Seoul, South Korea								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000440938600001	94	Article; Article		
J	Goodman, Avi D.; Johnson, Joseph P.; Kleiner, Justin E.; Gil, Joseph A.; Daniels, Alan H.								The expanding use of total elbow arthroplasty for distal humerus fractures: retrospective database analysis of 56,379 inpatients from 2002-2014								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				46	4			492	498		10.1080/00913847.2018.1508315			2018	2018	Objectives: Distal humerus fractures are challenging to treat, with significant morbidity. Precontoured distal humerus locking plates and total elbow arthroplasty implants have become available in the past 15 years, potentially offering the promise of improved outcomes. However, national data regarding the usage of and in-hospital complications associated with these implants is scarce. Therefore, we aimed to determine if the incidence of inpatients with distal humerus fractures treated with arthroplasty or open reduction and internal fixation (ORIF) changed over time. Secondarily, we sought to determine what demographic factors were associated with arthroplasty versus fixation and compare inpatient outcomes. Methods: Inpatients over 50 years old with operatively treated closed distal humerus fractures were identified between 2002 and 2014 in the Nationwide Inpatient Sample, a nationally representative, all-payer database. Patient demographic factors were associated with treatment type. Outcomes examined included complications, mortality, length-of-stay, and charges; multivariable logistic regression compared associations with treatment. Results: Of 56,379 inpatients undergoing surgery, the proportion undergoing arthroplasty rose 2.3-fold from 4.8% to 10.9% from 2002 to 2014 (OR 1.039/year [95% CI [1.016-1.062]). Annual patient volume remained similar. Arthroplasty patients were older than those undergoing fixation (75.5 vs. 71.0 years, p < 0.001), more likely to be female (83.1% vs. 75.4%, p < 0.001), and less likely to be treated at a rural hospital (OR 0.601, 95% CI 0.445-0.812, p < 0.001). There was no significant difference in comorbidities. Arthroplasty patients had similar inpatient medical complication (7.1% vs. 7.8%, OR 0.998, p = 0.988) and mortality rates (0.38% vs. 0.94%, OR 0.426, p = 0.102), a decreased length of stay (by 0.3 days, p = 0.032), but increased hospital charges (by $12,033, p < 0.001). Conclusions: For inpatients over 50 years old with operatively-treated distal humerus fractures, use of elbow arthroplasty has expanded, albeit with increased cost. Further studies may help to delineate the long-term costs and benefits, as well as which patients may benefit from each type of implant.		[Goodman, Avi D.; Johnson, Joseph P.; Gil, Joseph A.; Daniels, Alan H.] Brown Univ, Rhode Isl Hosp Orthopaed, Providence, RI 02912 USA; [Kleiner, Justin E.] Brown Univ, Warren Alpert Med Sch, Providence, RI 02912 USA; [Goodman, Avi D.] Brown Univ, Rhode Isl Hosp Orthopaed, Providence, RI 02912 USA								10							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000452020500014	44	Article; Article		
J	Kemler, Ellen; Blokland, Donna; Backx, Frank; Huisstede, Bionka								Differences in injury risk and characteristics of injuries between novice and experienced runners over a 4-year period								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				46	4			485	491		10.1080/00913847.2018.1507410			2018	2018	Objectives: Running is increasingly popular, but also carries a high injury risk, especially in novice runners. This study investigates differences in incidence and characteristics of running-related injuries (RRIs) between novice and experienced runners in the open population, in order to adapt to more specific needs for future prevention programs. Methods: Data were obtained from Injuries and Physical Activity in the Netherlands (IPAN), a Dutch questionnaire on injuries, physical activity, and sports. A representative sample of runners (n = 4621) from IPAN, including 1405 novice runners, was used to assess injury incidence rates, anatomical site, onset and need for medical attention of RRIs. Participants who started running during the past 12 months were defined as 'novice' runners. 'Experienced' runners are participants who had been running for more than 1 year. Results: Of the 4621 runners, 41,8% were female. The average age was 34.2 years. From 2010 to 2013, a total of 416 injuries were reported. The incidence of RRIs was significantly higher in novice runners compared with experienced runners: 8.78 (8.59-8.96) vs. 4.24 (4.11-4.37) per 1000 h running. In both novice and experienced runners, most RRIs were located at the knee (30.5%) and lower leg (17.8%), with the Achilles' tendon less frequently injured in novice runners (2.3% vs. 8.4%, p = 0.031). Novice runners sustained more medical attention injuries (36.8%) than experienced runners (29.2%) (p > 0.132). Conclusions: In total, over 30% of all (novice and experienced) runners, suffered from RRI within 1 year. Novice runners reported more injuries per 1000 h of running in comparison to experienced runners. A tendency toward receiving medical attention more frequently was found in novice runners compared to experienced runners. In view of this higher injury incidence of RRIs and healthcare consumption in novice runners, more studies are needed to develop effective injury prevention programs for novice runners.		[Kemler, Ellen] Dutch Consumer Safety Inst, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Blokland, Donna; Backx, Frank; Huisstede, Bionka] Univ Utrecht, Univ Med Ctr Utrecht, Rudolf Magnus Inst Neurosci, Dept Rehabil Phys Therapy Sci & Sport, Utrecht, Netherlands; [Huisstede, Bionka] Univ Utrecht, Univ Med Ctr Utrecht, Rudolf Magnus Inst Neurosci, Dept Rehabil Phys Therapy Sci & Sport, Utrecht, Netherlands								66							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000452020500013	31	Article; Article		
J	Song, Qipeng; Wang, Shen; Wong, Del P.; Zhou, Jingyi; Sun, Wei; Zhang, Cui; Gu, Houxin; Mao, Dewei								Long-term Tai Chi exercise increases body stability of the elderly during stair ascent under high and low illumination								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				17	3			402	413		10.1080/14763141.2017.1358761			2018	2018	The effects of long-term Tai Chi exercise on body stability of the elderly during stair ascent under high and low illumination were investigated. Forty-five healthy elderly women were divided into three groups, namely, Tai Chi exercise group, brisk walking group and no-exercise control group. All the participants ascended a staircase, during which force platforms and a motion capture system collected the data. Under the high illumination, Tai Chi exercise participants exhibited higher loading rate and anteroposterior centre of pressure (COPap) displacement as well as a lower braking impulse than no-exercise group. Under the low illumination, Tai Chi exercise participants demonstrated higher COPap and mediolateral centre of pressure (COPml) displacements as well as lower braking and lateral impulses compared with no-exercise participants. The centre of mass (COM)(ml) sway in Tai Chi and no exercise participants were higher, the loading rates in Tai Chi and walking participants were higher, and the lateral impulse in no exercise participants was higher under low illumination than under high illumination. Thus, low illumination increases the risk of falling. Tai Chi participants increased their foot clearance, head inclination angle and COPap displacement under low illumination to increase their stability during stair ascent.		[Song, Qipeng; Sun, Wei; Zhang, Cui; Mao, Dewei] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Kinesiol, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Song, Qipeng; Sun, Wei; Zhang, Cui; Gu, Houxin] Shandong Inst Sport Sci, Lab Sports Biomech, Jinan, Shandong, Peoples R China; [Wang, Shen] Guangzhou Sport Univ, Sports & Hlth Dept, Guangzhou, Guangdong, Peoples R China; [Wong, Del P.; Mao, Dewei] Shandong Sport Univ, Sport Sci Res Ctr, Jinan, Shandong, Peoples R China; [Zhou, Jingyi] Fifth Hosp Jinan, Internal Med Dept 5, Jinan, Shandong, Peoples R China; [Gu, Houxin] Educ Univ Hong Kong, Dept Hlth & Phys Educ, Hong Kong, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [Mao, Dewei] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Kinesiol, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Mao, Dewei] Shandong Sport Univ, Sport Sci Res Ctr, Jinan, Shandong, Peoples R China								10							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000439911900011	28	Article; Article		
J	Miller, Matthew C.; Fink, Philip W.; Macdermid, Paul William; Perry, Blake G.; Stannard, Stephen R.								Validity of a device designed to measure braking power in bicycle disc brakes								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				17	3			303	313		10.1080/14763141.2017.1338744			2018	2018	Real-world cycling performance depends not only on exercise capacities, but also on efficiently traversing the bicycle through the terrain. The aim of this study was to determine if it was possible to quantify the braking done by a cyclist in the field. One cyclist performed 408 braking trials (348 on a flat road; 60 on a flat dirt path) over 5 days on a bicycle fitted with brake torque and angular velocity sensors to measure brake power. Based on Newtonian physics, the sum of brake work, aerodynamic drag and rolling resistance was compared with the change in kinetic energy in each braking event. Strong linear relationships between the total energy removed from the bicycle-rider system through braking and the change in kinetic energy were observed on the tar-sealed road (r(2)=0.989; p<0.0001) and the dirt path (r(2)=0.952; p<0.0001). T-tests revealed no difference between the total energy removed and the change in kinetic energy on the road (p=0.715) or dirt (p=0.128). This study highlights that brake torque and angular velocity sensors are valid for calculating brake power on the disc brakes of a bicycle in field conditions. Such a device may be useful for investigating cyclists' ability to traverse through various terrains.		[Miller, Matthew C.; Fink, Philip W.; Macdermid, Paul William; Perry, Blake G.; Stannard, Stephen R.] Massey Univ, Sch Sport Exercise, Palmerston North, New Zealand; [Miller, Matthew C.] Massey Univ, Sch Sport Exercise, Palmerston North, New Zealand								4							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000439911900003	17	Article; Article		
J	Slone, Harris S.; Buckner, Jeannie F.; Hewson, Kirstie; Barr, Michael J.; Crawford, Thomas; Woolf, Shane K.								Economic impact of outreach athletic trainers on a health system: implications for program growth and sustainability								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				46	4			460	465		10.1080/00913847.2018.1502570			2018	2018	Objectives: There are numerous benefits of organized athletics, but there is an inherent risk with competitive participation. The need for proper care for high school and community athletes can be met with comprehensive community sports medicine programs, and the employment of certified athletic trainers (AT-Cs). The benefit of clinic-based AT-C has been clearly demonstrated, but there has been little published on the economics of outreach AT-C serving directly in the community. Our hypothesis was that outreach AT-Cs are economically sustainable to an academic health system. Methods: Evaluation of clinical business generated from the outreach Sports Medicine AT-C program at our institution was performed from fiscal years 2012 to 2015 to determine new referrals, billable patient encounters (bpe), and corresponding revenue generated. Data were retrieved from an existing aggregate business analysis, including both professional billing and hospital billing; data were restricted to the fiscal year of the initial referral. Both new patients and patients with established care were identified. Total revenue was determined, as well as the distribution across clinical departments within our health system. Results: 8570 bpe resulted from 843 patients referred into the system, yielding $2286,733 in total revenue. Of these, 187 were new patients, yielding 1602 bpe. Each patient generated an average of 10.17 bpe, by combining revenue across services; this yielded an average of $2712 per patient generated through the AT-C program. Conclusion: Affiliation between a health system and community sports teams through an outreach AT-C program is an economically sustainable, symbiotic relationship. Additionally, there is not only a positive economic impact for sports medicine and orthopaedic providers but also a distinct benefit to the entire health system. This is the first study to demonstrate that an outreach AT-C program is financially sustainable and directly benefits the entire health system across many subspecialties.		[Slone, Harris S.; Hewson, Kirstie; Crawford, Thomas; Woolf, Shane K.] Med Univ South Carolina, Dept Orthopaed & Phys Med, Charleston, SC 29425 USA; [Buckner, Jeannie F.] Med Univ South Carolina, Coll Med, Charleston, SC 29425 USA; [Barr, Michael J.] Med Univ South Carolina, MUSC Hlth Sports Med, Charleston, SC 29425 USA; [Buckner, Jeannie F.] Med Univ South Carolina, Charleston, SC 29425 USA								3							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000452020500009	21	Article; Article		
J	Tang, Wen-Tzu; Liao, Wei-Chih; Lee, Hsin-Min								Contribution of upper limb muscles to two different gripping styles in elite indoor tug of war athletes								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				17	3			322	335		10.1080/14763141.2017.1341545			2018	2018	To investigate characteristic upper limb muscle use between two common tug of war (TOW) gripping styles, 20 elite athletes from two high school TOW teams were recruited. Under conditioned attack pulling (with 90% maximal force) on a tug machine, participants used their own habitual gripping style to pull for five 15-s trials. Force and kinematic measurements showed a significantly better force performance and higher centre-of-gravity tilting angle with the gripping style one than with the gripping style two (GS2) (both p<0.05). However, an overall higher and more symmetrical muscle activation detected by normalised surface electromyography signal amplitude was found in the GS2 group (both p<0.05). In both groups, the distal and flexor muscles were more activated than the proximal and extensor muscles, respectively (p<0.05). Higher co-contraction ratio was found in the wrist joints of the latter arm in both groups (p<0.05). As higher muscle activation level and co-contraction indicate higher muscle and joint injury incidences, we suggest that gripping style factors should be considered in training to prevent muscle and joint injury. Future study concerning segmental kinematics, ground reaction force, moment arm and muscle endurance during the defence phase are warranted.		[Tang, Wen-Tzu; Liao, Wei-Chih] Natl Taiwan Sport Univ, Grad Inst Coaching Sci, Taoyuan, Taiwan; [Liao, Wei-Chih] Vanung Univ, Phys Educ Div, Taoyuan, Taiwan; [Lee, Hsin-Min] I Shou Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Kaohsiung, Taiwan; [Lee, Hsin-Min] I Shou Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Kaohsiung, Taiwan								5							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000439911900005	25	Article; Article		
J	Krkeljas, Zarko								Comparison of jump-landing protocols with Biodex Balance System as measures of dynamic postural stability in athletes								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				17	3			371	382		10.1080/14763141.2017.1348537			2018	2018	The objective of the study was to determine whether a relationship exists between the two common methods for assessing postural stability in athletes: the time-to-stabilisation (TTS) via force-plate and the Biodex Balance System (BBS). The conditions under which these measurements assess dynamic postural control may not provide sufficient feedback to practitioners. Fourty-four amateur soccer players with no history of musculoskeletal disorders volunteered for the study. Pearson correlation was used to compare the anterior-posterior (AP), medio-lateral (ML), and the overall stability indexes measured by BBS, with the corresponding parameters of TTS assessed via force plate. There was no significant correlation between any parameters of dynamic stability measured by force-plate and the stability indexes. However, there was a significant correlation between the resulting vectors and the AP component of TTS for each jump protocol. Furthermore, forward drop landing exhibited shortest TTS in AP direction, while lateral drop landing resulted in longer ML TTS relative to both forward jumps (p<0.001). These results demonstrate that the TTS and BBS stability indexes should be used as distinct measures of dynamic postural stability. TTS protocols may be modified to target a specific training conditions or athletic population.		[Krkeljas, Zarko] North West Univ, Phys Act Sport & Recreat Res Ent, Potchefstroom, South Africa; [Krkeljas, Zarko] Univ Stellenbosch, Dept Sport Sci, Stellenbosch, South Africa; North West Univ, Potchefstroom, South Africa; [Krkeljas, Zarko] North West Univ, Phys Act Sport & Recreat Res Ent, Potchefstroom, South Africa; [Krkeljas, Zarko] Univ Stellenbosch, Dept Sport Sci, Stellenbosch, South Africa								6							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000439911900009	34	Article; Article		
J	Kosinski, Lindsay R.; Gil, Joseph A.; Durand, Wesley M.; DeFroda, Steven F.; Owens, Brett D.; Daniels, Alan H.								30-Day readmission following outpatient rotator cuff repair: an analysis of 18,061 cases								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				46	4			466	470		10.1080/00913847.2018.1502571			2018	2018	Objectives: The purpose of this study is to identify patient characteristics that increase risk for unplanned readmission within 30 days of an initial hospital stay after outpatient rotator cuff repair (RCR). Methods: A retrospective cohort study was performed utilizing the National Surgical Quality Improvement Program (ACS NSQIP) datasets from 2012 to 2015. Patients were preliminarily included in the study based on the presence of a primary Common Procedural Terminology code for RCR (23410, 23412, 23420, and 29827). Only non-emergent, outpatient, and elective procedures performed on patients with American Society of Anesthesiologists (ASA) <= 4 were considered. The primary outcome variables were 30-day unplanned readmission after outpatient surgery. Secondary analyses were implemented to establish reason and timing of readmission. Results: A total of 18,061 cases were reviewed, and 199 (1%) patients experienced 30-day unplanned readmission. Age >= 80 (OR = 2.13, p = 0.0276), COPD (OR = 1.75, p = 0.0354), hypertension requiring medication (OR = 1.67, p = 0.0027), dialysis (OR = 13.46, p < 0.0001) and an ASA classification of 3 (OR = 2.78, p = 0.0143) or ASA 4 (OR = 6.15, p = 0.0012) were identified as major prognosticators for readmission. Female sex was associated with lower odds of readmission (OR = 0.54, p = 0.0001). The most common complications associated with readmission were cardiovascular (29%), infection (19%), and respiratory (17%). Conclusions: The rate of 30-day unplanned inpatient readmission following outpatient RCR using the NSQIP data was found to be 1%, with advanced age and preexisting medical comorbidities contributing to the highest odds of readmission. Cardiovascular, infectious, and respiratory complications contributed to the majority of readmissions. The ability to identify patients with these risk factors will be of utility in optimizing outcomes and cost-effectiveness of RCR.		[Kosinski, Lindsay R.; Gil, Joseph A.; Owens, Brett D.; Daniels, Alan H.] Brown Univ, Warren Alpert Med Sch, Dept Orthopaed Surg, 593 Eddy St, Providence, RI 02903 USA; [Durand, Wesley M.; DeFroda, Steven F.] Brown Univ, Warren Alpert Med Sch, Providence, RI 02903 USA; [Kosinski, Lindsay R.] Brown Univ, Warren Alpert Med Sch, Dept Orthopaed Surg, 593 Eddy St, Providence, RI 02903 USA								12							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000452020500010	10	Article; Article		
J	Fortes, Leonardo S.; Nascimento-Junior, Jose R. A.; Mortatti, Arnaldo L.; Alvas Araujo de Lima-Junior, Dalton Roberto; Ferreira, Maria E. C.								Effect of Dehydration on Passing Decision Making in Soccer Athletes								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				89	3			332	339		10.1080/02701367.2018.1488026			2018	2018	It seems that dehydration may impair decision-making performance in athletes. Purpose: This study aimed to investigate the influence of dehydration on passing decision-making performance in soccer players. Method: Participants were 40 male soccer players (M-age = 22.3 +/- 2.3years) who agreed to participate in the study and were randomly assigned to the following conditions: control (CON), dehydration (DEH), and euhydration (EUH). The players played in 2 games of 90min in duration (2 45-min halves) followed by 2 15-min halves (overtime) with and without proper hydration. The Game Performance Assessment Instrument (GPAI) was considered for the analysis of passing decision making. Results: The GPAI analysis indicated effective reduction in the decision-making index in the DEH condition compared with the EUH and CON conditions, F(2, 38)=31.4, p<.05, ES=0.8. Conclusions: In conclusion, dehydration may be considered a mediating factor in the passing decision-making performance of male soccer athletes.		[Fortes, Leonardo S.; Alvas Araujo de Lima-Junior, Dalton Roberto] Univ Fed Pernambuco, Recife, PE, Brazil; [Nascimento-Junior, Jose R. A.] Fed Univ Vale Sao Francisco, Petrolina, PE, Brazil; [Mortatti, Arnaldo L.] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Norte, Natal, RN, Brazil; [Ferreira, Maria E. C.] Univ Fed Juiz de Fora, Juiz De Fora, MG, Brazil; [Fortes, Leonardo S.] Univ Fed Pernambuco, Grad Program Phys Educ, Prof Morais Rego St S-N, BR-50670901 Recife, PE, Brazil								29							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000442649800007	30	Article; Article		
J	Pena-Gonzalez, Ivan; Fernandez-Fernandez, Jaime; Moya-Ramon, Manuel; Cervello, Eduardo								Relative Age Effect, Biological Maturation, and Coaches' Efficacy Expectations in Young Male Soccer Players								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				89	3			373	379		10.1080/02701367.2018.1486003			2018	2018	Purpose: The talent identification and selection process in young male soccer players is mainly focused on anthropometrics and physical performance, but social factors are also considered in this process. The purpose of this study was to test the existence of the relative age effect and its possible influence on anthropometrics and physical performance and to analyze coaches' efficacy expectations. Method: Data for 564 young male soccer players (M-age = 13.7 +/- 1.5years; M-weight = 53.7 +/- 11.6kg; M-height = 160.2 +/- 11.6cm) included their birth quartile, maturity status, anthropometrics, a physical test battery, and coaches' efficacy expectations. Results: Early-born players were overrepresented (p<.05). Early-born players were not statistically taller, heavier, or better at physical performance (p>.05) when maturation and chronological age were controlled as confounding factors. However, coaches expected more from early-born players (p<.05), and the inferential analysis showed likely to very likely worthwhile differences between the coaches' expectations for players born in the first quartile of the year and those born in the fourth quartile of the year. Conclusions: Anthropometrical and physical performance variables were not affected by birth quartile, and coaches' efficacy expectations were related to the relative age effect.		[Pena-Gonzalez, Ivan; Moya-Ramon, Manuel; Cervello, Eduardo] Miguel Hernandez Univ Elche, Elche, Spain; [Fernandez-Fernandez, Jaime] Univ Leon, Leon, Spain; [Moya-Ramon, Manuel] Miguel Hernandez Univ Elche, Sport Res Ctr, Avda Univ S-N, Elche 03202, Alicante, Spain								59							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000442649800013	33	Article; Article		
J	Houltberg, Benjamin J.; Wang, Kenneth T.; Qi, Wei; Nelson, Christina S.								Self-Narrative Profiles of Elite Athletes and Comparisons on Psychological Well-Being								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				89	3			354	360		10.1080/02701367.2018.1481919			2018	2018	Further research is needed on factors related to the emotional health of elite athletes. Previous research has linked self-narratives of people or their narrative identities to their psychological well-being. However, no study has yet examined self-narratives among elite athletes. Purpose: This study examined whether specific profiles or narrative identities of athletes emerge through multiple self-narrative indicators; these profiles were compared on measures of psychological well-being (e.g., depression, anxiety, postfailure shame levels, and life satisfaction). Method: Self-report data were collected from a sample of elite athletes (n=99, Mdn age=22 years, 52% male, 53% individual sports) competing at a National Collegiate Athletic Association Division 1, professional, or Olympic level. Results: Latent profile analysis revealed 3 profile types that significantly differed on measures of psychological well-being. Athletes with a performance-based narrative identity (high perfectionism, fear of failure, and contingent self-worth) demonstrated the highest levels of psychological disruptions (highest levels of depression, anxiety, and shame; lowest levels of life satisfaction), whereas a purpose-based narrative identity (high purpose, global self-worth, positive view of self after sport) was associated with the highest level of psychological well-being (lowest levels of depression, anxiety, and shame; highest levels of life satisfaction). Athletes in the mixed-type profile class reported better psychological well-being compared with the performance-based profile class but not the purpose-based profile class. Conclusions: Our findings provide initial evidence that particular self-narrative profiles of elite athletes contribute to their own psychological well-being in a significant way. Possible implications for practitioners are also discussed.		[Houltberg, Benjamin J.; Wang, Kenneth T.; Qi, Wei; Nelson, Christina S.] Fuller Theol Seminary, Pasadena, CA 91101 USA; [Houltberg, Benjamin J.] Fuller Theol Seminary, Fuller Grad Sch Psychol, Dept Clin Psychol, 180 N Oakland Ave, Pasadena, CA 91101 USA								34							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000442649800010	25	Article; Article		
J	Coker, Cheryl A.								Improving Functional Movement Proficiency in Middle School Physical Education								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				89	3			367	372		10.1080/02701367.2018.1484066			2018	2018	Purpose: The purpose of this study was to examine whether functional movement proficiency could be improved as measured via the Functional Movement Screen using a standardized warm-up protocol in middle school physical education. A secondary purpose was to determine whether such improvement, if it occurred, would positively influence the technical performance of 4 fundamental motor skills: overhand throw, vertical jump, kicking, and running. Method: Participants were 120 7th- and 8th-grade physical education student volunteers. Two classes from each grade level were assigned to the functional group (N= 54) while the remaining 2 classes of each grade were assigned to the control group (N= 66). Baseline measures were obtained using the Functional Movement Screen and the Get Skilled: Get Active (2000) process-oriented motor skill assessment. For 6weeks, the functional group warmed up by performing functional stretching, stability, and mobility exercises while the control group completed a traditional dynamic warm-up. Results: According to gain score analysis, those in the functional group significantly reduced dysfunctional movements (scores of 1) compared with those in the control group. Further, boys in the functional group significantly improved their Functional Movement Screen composite score as compared with their male counterparts in the control group whose scores declined. No differences were found for fundamental motor skill performance. Conclusion: Replacing the traditional dynamic warm-up with one that emphasizes functional movement in preparation for activity in physical education appears effective for correcting movement dysfunctions in young adolescents.		[Coker, Cheryl A.] Plymouth State Univ, Plymouth, NH USA; [Coker, Cheryl A.] Plymouth State Univ, Doctor Phys Therapy Program, MSC 68, Plymouth, NH 03264 USA								17							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000442649800012	15	Article; Article		
J	Lightsey, Harry M.; Wright, Margaret L.; Trofa, David P.; Popkin, Charles A.; Ahmad, Christopher S.; Redler, Lauren H.								Rehabilitation variability following medial patellofemoral ligament reconstruction								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				46	4			441	448		10.1080/00913847.2018.1487240			2018	2018	Background: Medial patellofemoral ligament (MPFL) reconstruction is an increasingly utilized surgical option for recurrent patellar instability. Recent studies have highlighted the potential benefits of accelerated functional rehabilitation; however, no validated MPFL rehabilitation guidelines currently exist. Objective: To assess the variability of MPFL reconstruction rehabilitation protocols published online by academic orthopaedic programs. Methods: Online MPFL rehabilitation protocols from U.S. teaching orthopaedic programs were reviewed. A comprehensive scoring rubric was developed to assess each protocol for both the presence of various rehabilitation components and the timing of their introduction. Results: Thirty-one protocols (20%) were identified from 155 U.S. academic orthopaedic programs. Thirty protocols (97%) recommended immediate postoperative knee bracing. Twenty protocols (65%) allowed for weight-bearing as tolerated using crutches immediately postoperatively, whereas seven protocols (23%) recommended partial weight-bearing and four protocols (13%) recommended toe-touch weight-bearing. For those protocols advising partial and toe-touch weight-bearing, advancement to full weight-bearing was achieved at averages of 4.7 (range, 3-8) weeks and 6.3 (range, 6-7) weeks, respectively. There was considerable variation in range of motion (ROM) goals; however, most protocols (97%) recommended achieving 90 degrees of knee flexion at an average of 1.4 (range, 0-6) weeks. Significant diversity was found in the inclusion and timing of strengthening, stretching, proprioception, and basic cardiovascular exercises. Twenty-five protocols (81%) recommended return to training after completing specific athletic criteria. Conclusions: A minority of U.S. teaching orthopaedic institutions publish MPFL reconstruction rehabilitation protocols online. Furthermore, there is a high degree of variability in both the composition and timing of rehabilitation modalities across these protocols.		[Lightsey, Harry M.; Wright, Margaret L.; Trofa, David P.; Popkin, Charles A.; Ahmad, Christopher S.; Redler, Lauren H.] Columbia Univ, Med Ctr, New York Presbyterian, Dept Orthoped Surg, 622 West 168th St,PH11 Ctr Wing, New York, NY 10032 USA; [Redler, Lauren H.] Columbia Univ, Med Ctr, New York Presbyterian, Dept Orthoped Surg, 622 West 168th St,PH11 Ctr Wing, New York, NY 10032 USA								19							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000452020500007	33	Article; Article		
J	Krill, Michael K.; Hoffman, Joshua; Yang, JaeWon; Hodax, Johnathan D.; Owens, Brett D.; Hewett, Timothy E.								Previous foot injuries associated with a greater likelihood of Achilles tendon ruptures in professional American football players								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				46	3			342	348		10.1080/00913847.2018.1482188			2018	2018	Objectives: The purpose of this study was to build on current understanding of Achilles tendon (AT) ruptures in football through the examination of lower extremity injury rates (IR) in the season prior to AT rupture. Methods: An online review was conducted to document AT ruptures in the National Football League (NFL) from the 2010-11 through 2016-17 seasons. Player-specific information was gathered through the online search, injury reports, or video analysis. Injury incidence was recorded for each season. Descriptive statistics were calculated for all variables. IRs per 1000 athlete-exposures with 95% confidence intervals (CI) were established. Injury rate ratios (IRR) with 95% CI were calculated to evaluate differences in IR with statistical significance established at p < 0.05. Results: From the 2010-11 to 2016-17 NFL seasons, 109 AT ruptures were identified. 36 athletes participated in the NFL the season prior and sustained a total of 40 injuries. Thirty-two (32/40, 80%) of the injuries involved the lower extremity. The most frequent body parts injured in the NFL season prior to AT rupture were the knee (n = 8, 22.5%), upper leg and thigh (n = 7, 17.5%), lower leg and shin (n = 5, 12.5%), and ankle (n = 5, 12.5%). The overall IR for the AT rupture group was not significantly different than the NFL group (IRR: 0.94, 0.68-1.31 95% CI, p = 0.73). The AT rupture group demonstrated a significantly increased rate of foot injuries compared to the NFL cohort (IRR: 2.58, 1.16-5.77 95% CI, p = 0.02). Conclusion: There was an increased identified incidence of AT ruptures in the NFL from 2010 to 2017 compared to AT ruptures reported from 1997 to 2002. There was no significant difference in lower extremity IR the season prior to AT rupture. Only foot injuries demonstrated an increased IR the season prior to AT rupture compared to an NFL cohort. Eleven athletes sustained 2 AT ruptures and all 11 players sustained the subsequent AT rupture to the contralateral limb.		[Krill, Michael K.; Hoffman, Joshua] Ohio State Univ, Wexner Med Ctr, Mot Anal & Performance Lab, James Crane Sports Med Inst, Columbus, OH 43210 USA; [Krill, Michael K.] Florida Atlantic Univ, Charles E Schmidt Coll Med, Boca Raton, FL 33431 USA; [Krill, Michael K.] Washington Univ, Div Neurorehabil, Dept Neurol, Phys Med & Rehabil, St Louis, MO USA; [Yang, JaeWon] Brown Univ, Warren Alpert Med Sch, Providence, RI 02912 USA; [Hodax, Johnathan D.; Owens, Brett D.] Brown Univ, Warren Alpert Med Sch, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Providence, RI 02912 USA; [Hewett, Timothy E.] Mayo Clin, Sports Med Ctr, Rochester, MN 55905 USA; [Hewett, Timothy E.] Mayo Clin, Dept Orthoped Surg, 200 First St SW, Rochester, MN 55905 USA; [Hewett, Timothy E.] Mayo Clin, Dept Physiol & Biomed Engn, Rochester, MN 55905 USA; [Hewett, Timothy E.] Mayo Clin, Dept Phys Med & Rehabil, Rochester, MN 55905 USA; [Hewett, Timothy E.] Mayo Clin, Dept Orthoped Surg, 200 First St SW, Rochester, MN 55905 USA								9							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000443915700013	41	Article; Article		
J	Vieira, Luiz H. P.; Cunha, Sergio A.; Moraes, Renato; Barbieri, Fabio A.; Aquino, Rodrigo; Oliveira, Lucas de P.; Navarro, Martina; Bedo, Bruno L. S.; Santiago, Paulo R. P.								Kicking Performance in Young U9 to U20 Soccer Players: Assessment of Velocity and Accuracy Simultaneously								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				89	2			210	220		10.1080/02701367.2018.1439569			2018	2018	Purpose: The purpose of this study was to compare the kicking performance of young soccer players in the U9 to U20 age groups. Method: Three hundred and sixty-six Brazilian players were evaluated on an official pitch using three-dimensional kinematics to measure (300Hz) ball velocity (V-ball), foot velocity (V-foot), V-ball/V-foot ratio, last stride length, and distance between the support foot and the ball. Simultaneously, a two-dimensional procedure was also conducted to compute (60Hz) the mean radial error, bivariate variable error, and accuracy. Possible age-related differences were assessed through one-way analysis of variance and magnitude-based inferences. Results: Ball velocity increased by 103% (p<.001, (2)=.39) from the U11 age group (48.54 +/- 8.31km/hr) to the U20 age group (98.74 +/- 16.35km/hr). Foot velocity presented a 59% increase (p<.001, (2)=.32) from the U11 age group (49.08 +/- 5.16km/hr) to U20 (78.24 +/- 9.49km/hr). This finding was due to improvement in the quality of foot-ball impact (V-ball/V-foot ratio) from U11 (0.99 +/- 0.13 a.u.) to U20 (1.26 +/- 0.11 a.u.; p<.001, (2)=.25). Parameters such as mean radial error and accuracy appeared to be impaired during the growth spurt (U13-U15). Last stride length was correlated, low to moderately high, with V-ball in all age groups (r=.36-.79). Conclusions: In summary, we concluded that simple biomechanical parameters of kicking performance presented distinct development. These results suggest that different training strategies specific for each age group could be applied. We provide predictive equations to aid coaches in the long-term monitoring process to develop the kick in soccer or search for talented young players.		[Vieira, Luiz H. P.; Moraes, Renato; Aquino, Rodrigo; Oliveira, Lucas de P.; Bedo, Bruno L. S.; Santiago, Paulo R. P.] Univ Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Cunha, Sergio A.] Univ Estadual Campinas, Campinas, SP, Brazil; [Barbieri, Fabio A.] Sao Paulo State Univ, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Aquino, Rodrigo] Univ Porto, Porto, Portugal; [Navarro, Martina] Univ Fed Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Navarro, Martina] Univ Bern, Bern, Switzerland; [Santiago, Paulo R. P.] Univ Sao Paulo, Sch Phys Educ & Sport Ribeirao Preto, Av Bandeirantes 3900, BR-14040907 Monte Alegre do Sul, SP, Brazil								31							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000434342600010	35	Article; Article		
J	Ebrahim, Mohamed F. A.; Pifer, N. David; Shalaby, Saad Ahmed Saad; El Hakim, Karim Mohamed Mahmoud; Mubarak, Hosam El Dien El Sayed; Zhang, James J.								Is Egyptian soccer well-positioned for business purposes? Assessing competitive balance in the Egyptian Premier League								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				19	2			236	254		10.1108/IJSMS-05-2017-0036			2018	2018	Purpose The Egyptian Premier League (EPL) holds a prominent place in Egypt's sporting culture and serves as the stage for some of Africa's most competitive soccer clubs. However, the actual competitive balance in this league has come under scrutiny in recent years as the two historically dominant Cairo clubs, Ahly and Zamalek, continue to retain the EPL championship. A major concern is that the competitive imbalance of the EPL may actually be hampering the league's progress and the progress of soccer in Egypt. In order to more closely assess this situation, the purpose of this paper is to use historical EPL performance data to conduct a series of competitive balance analyses on league results from 1948 to 2014. The findings revealed that competition in the league is almost nonexistent as Ahly and Zamalek continue to enjoy a number of direct and indirect financial benefits that are unrealized by their competitors. The dominance of these clubs has compromised the elements of match uncertainty and drama that are traditionally viewed as being important to the prestige and financial achievements of leagues and teams. Discussion is therefore offered for how the EPL could go about resolving some of its organizational and competitive balance issues. Design/methodology/approach This study adopted four basic measures of competitive balance to conduct descriptive analyses on EPL data that were collected from egyptianfootball.net and the Rec Sport Soccer Statistics Foundation. These analyses began with the EPL's inaugural season (1948-1949) and extended to the conclusion of the 2014-2015 season. During this timeframe, seven seasons were canceled due to global and political tensions and four more went unfinished. Because these seasons were excluded, the total sample size consisted of 56 seasons, each of which contained between 10 and 24 EPL teams. The data were analyzed using variations of the following competitive balance measures: the range and standard deviation of winning percentages, the ratio of the standard deviation/Noll-Scully approach, the Herfindahl-Hirschman Index, and five-club concentration ratio. Findings The results confirmed that the league is largely imbalanced, leading the authors to recommend systemic and structural changes that could help promote competitive balance in the league. The call for competitive balance in the EPL was bolstered by a literature review of studies that advocated for parity in professional sports leagues. In the end, the researchers recommend the EPL to improve its organizational policies and consider a revised revenue-sharing system that would allow the small-market teams to survive and thrive. Originality/value The EPL holds a prominent place in Egypt's sporting culture and serves as the stage for some of Africa's most competitive soccer clubs. The primary purpose of this study was to perform a series of competitive balance analyses on EPL results from 1948 to 2015 in an effort to better understand the various degrees of competitiveness in the league during this time.		[Ebrahim, Mohamed F. A.; Shalaby, Saad Ahmed Saad; El Hakim, Karim Mohamed Mahmoud; Mubarak, Hosam El Dien El Sayed] Mansoura Univ, Dept Sports Management, Mansoura, Egypt; [Pifer, N. David] Texas Tech Univ, Dept Kinesiol & Sport Management, Lubbock, TX 79409 USA; [Zhang, James J.] Univ Georgia, Dept Kinesiol, Athens, GA 30602 USA; [Ebrahim, Mohamed F. A.] Mansoura Univ, Dept Sports Management, Mansoura, Egypt								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000432676300008	44	Article; Article		
J	Zhang, James J.; Kim, Euisoo; Marstromartino, Brandon; Qian, Tyreal Yizhou; Nauright, John								The sport industry in growing economies: critical issues and challenges								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				19	2			110	126		10.1108/IJSMS-03-2018-0023			2018	2018	Purpose The purpose of this paper is to encourage scholarly inquiries to critically examine broad perspectives of marketing and business operations in the sport industry of growing economies. Design/methodology/approach A comprehensive review of literature was the primary research method to introduce the following critical questions, what are the major challenges in the sport industry of developing economies in a globalized market environment and what to do?. Findings Seven articles are selected based on their theoretical and practical contributions. Originality/value This special issue is committed to trigger more investigations into sport businesses in developing countries and ultimately advancing theories and seeking solutions.		[Zhang, James J.; Kim, Euisoo; Marstromartino, Brandon; Qian, Tyreal Yizhou] Univ Georgia, Dept Kinesiol, Athens, GA 30602 USA; [Nauright, John] Univ North Texas, Coll Educ, Denton, TX USA; [Zhang, James J.] Univ Georgia, Dept Kinesiol, Athens, GA 30602 USA								59							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000432676300001	90	Article; Article		
J	Watanabe, Yasuhiro; Gilbert, Cassendra; Aman, Mohd Salleh; Zhang, James J.								Attracting international spectators to a sport event held in Asia: The case of Formula One Petronas Malaysia Grand Prix								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				19	2			194	216		10.1108/IJSMS-08-2017-0077			2018	2018	Purpose The purpose of this paper is to examine the systematic influence of core product features, event operation quality, sport fan identification, and image of host city as a tourism destination on behavioral intentions of international spectator at a Formula One (F1) event held in Malaysia. Design/methodology/approach A survey form assessing the specified concepts was designed and employed to examine the structural relationships. The research participants were international spectators (n=512) attending the event. Data were randomly split into two halves, one for EFA (n=256) and the other for CFA and SEM (n=256). Findings Findings revealed that core product feature and sport fan identification factors were significantly (p<0.05) related to both of international spectators' desire to stay at the event, attend the event in the future, and revisit the country; whereas, event operation quality was only found to be significantly influential of the re-patronage, and destination image was only significantly influential of the desire to stay. The findings highlight the importance and relevance of these concepts in attracting, serving, and retaining international visitors to the event. Originality/value Unlike other studies that are centered merely on game and event factors, this study expanded on a bigger ecological spectrum surrounding a F1 event and systematically evaluated the critical concepts and factors affecting international tourist to the event that can be considerable sources of economic growth. The findings provide empirical evidence for event and tourism management and marketing.		[Watanabe, Yasuhiro] Hiroshima Univ Econ, Dept Sport Business Adm, Sport Management, Hiroshima, Japan; [Gilbert, Cassendra] Univ Malaya, Sport Ctr, Safety Management Syst Sports, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia; [Aman, Mohd Salleh] Univ Malaya, Sport Ctr, Sport & Recreat Management, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia; [Zhang, James J.] Univ Georgia, Dept Kinesiol, Sport Management, Athens, GA 30602 USA; [Watanabe, Yasuhiro] Hiroshima Univ Econ, Dept Sport Business Adm, Sport Management, Hiroshima, Japan								23							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000432676300006	92	Article; Article		
J	Yen, Yun-Shan; Su, Daniel Chiung Jui; Yuan, Kuo-Shu; Chen, Po-Wei; Chow, Julie Chi; Chou, Willy								Isocapnic buffering phase: a useful indicator of exercise endurance in patients with coronary artery disease								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				46	2			228	232		10.1080/00913847.2018.1426967			2018	2018	Objectives: The significance of the isocapnic buffering (IB) phase - the period between the first ventilatory threshold (1st VT) and respiratory compensation point (RCP) - has not been adequately established in patients. This study aimed to determine the clinical significance of the IB phase in patients with coronary artery disease (CAD). Methods: This retrospective study included data of sixty-two CAD patients after coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) or percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) performed in a single medical center between 2010 - 2014. According to their physical conditions, the patients performed incremental cardiopulmonary exercise test (CPET) using a cycle ergometer by the ramp of 5-20 W/min. Correlations between the corrected IB phase duration and age, body mass index (BMI), left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF), and CPET parameters were evaluated using Pearson correlation coefficients. Variables predicting peak oxygen consumption (VO2) were evaluated using multiple regression. Results: Peak VO2 (p < 0.001), VO2 at RCP (p < 0.001), Delta O-2/Delta WR slope (p < 0.001), maximal partial pressure of end tidal CO2 (PetCO(2)) (p = 0.0012), VE/VCO2 slope (p = 0.010), BMI (p = 0.012), and age (p = 0.017) were significantly correlated, whereas LVEF (p = 0.246) and VO2 at 1st VT (p = 0.179) were not significantly correlated with the corrected IB phase duration. In multiple regression analysis, the corrected IB phase duration, VO2 at 1st VT, and Delta O-2/Delta WR slope were significantly associated with peak VO2. Conclusion: The findings indicate that the IB phase duration is a useful indicator of peripheral cardiopulmonary function and endurance performance in CAD patients. These findings could assist the exercise prescription of cardiac rehabilitation for patients with CAD.		[Yen, Yun-Shan; Su, Daniel Chiung Jui; Chen, Po-Wei; Chou, Willy] Chi Mei Med Ctr, Dept Phys Med & Rehabil, 901 Zhonghua Rd, Tainan 710, Taiwan; [Yuan, Kuo-Shu] Natl Sun Yat Sen Univ, Dept Business Management, Kaohsiung, Taiwan; [Chow, Julie Chi] Chi Mei Med Ctr, Dept Pediat, Tainan, Taiwan; [Chou, Willy] Chia Nan Univ Pharm & Sci, Dept Recreat & Healthcare Management, Tainan, Taiwan; [Chou, Willy] Chia Nan Univ Pharm & Sci, Inst Recreat Ind Management, Tainan, Taiwan; [Chou, Willy] Chi Mei Med Ctr, Dept Phys Med & Rehabil, 901 Zhonghua Rd, Tainan 710, Taiwan								7							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000432562800010	24	Article; Article		
J	Edwards, Meghan K.; Shivappa, Nitin; Mann, Joshua R.; Hebert, James R.; Wirth, Michael D.; Loprinzi, Paul D.								The association between physical activity and dietary inflammatory index on mortality risk in US adults								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				46	2			249	254		10.1080/00913847.2018.1443665			2018	2018	Objective: Both diet and physical activity have been shown to be associated with reduced risk for mortality. The current study examined the individual and combined effects of the inflammatory quality of diet and physical activity levels on mortality risk. Methods: Data from the 1999-2004 National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey were used (N = 10,610 adults 20-85 years). Participants were followed through 2011, entailing a median followup time of 9.6 yrs. Dietary patterns were assessed using the Dietary Inflammatory Index (DII (R)), with a higher score indicative of greater diet-related inflammation. Habitual physical activity was assessed via a 30-day recall of leisure-time physical activity as well as objectively via up to seven days of accelerometry assessment. Four lifestyle groups were created: 1) unfavorable DII and inactive (referent); 2) unfavorable DII and active; 3) favorable DII and inactive; and 4) favorable DII and active. Results: Those who had a low DII score (favorable) and who self-reported being active had a 39% reduced hazard of all-cause mortality (HR = 0.61; 95% CI: 0.49-0.76) when compared to those with a higher DII and were inactive. Results based on accelerometer-assessed physical activity indicate a 65% reduced hazard (HR = 0.35; 95% CI: 0.17-0.74). DII and physical activity also were individually associated with mortality in the expected direction. Specifically, DII was positively associated (HR = 1.08; 95% CI: 1.04-1.13) and physical activity inversely associated (HR = 0.97; 95% CI: 0.94-0.99) with all-cause mortality risk. Conclusion: The combination of consuming a more anti-inflammatory diet and having adequate levels of physical activity is associated with a reduced risk of mortality. Additional replicative work is warranted.		[Edwards, Meghan K.; Loprinzi, Paul D.] Univ Mississippi, Dept Hlth Exercise Sci & Recreat Management, Phys Act Epidemiol Lab, Exercise Psychol Lab, Oxford, MS USA; [Shivappa, Nitin; Hebert, James R.; Wirth, Michael D.] Univ South Carolina, Connecting Hlth Innovat LLC, Canc Prevent & Control Program, Epidemiol & Biostat, Columbia, SC USA; [Mann, Joshua R.] Univ Mississippi, Med Ctr, Sch Med, Dept Prevent Med, Jackson, MS 39216 USA; [Mann, Joshua R.] John D Bower Sch Populat Hlth, Jackson, MS USA; [Loprinzi, Paul D.] Univ Mississippi, Phys Act Epidemiol Lab, Exercise Psychol Lab, Dept Hlth Exercise Sci & Recreat Management, 229 Turner Ctr, University, MS 38677 USA								15							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000432562800013	42	Article; Article		
J	Sarac, Nikolas; Sarac, Benjamin; Pedroza, Angela; Borchers, James								Epidemiology of mental health conditions in incoming division I collegiate athletes								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				46	2			242	248		10.1080/00913847.2018.1427412			2018	2018	Objectives: The purpose of this study is to examine the epidemiology of mental health conditions in incoming American Division I collegiate athletes. Methods: Pre-participation physical questionnaires from 1118 incoming student athletes at a Division I Institution were collected retrospectively from 2011-2017. Data collected included lifetime history of any mental health condition, musculoskeletal injuries, concussions, and post-concussion depression. History of any mental health condition was evaluated by gender and sport played. It was also evaluated in comparison to musculoskeletal injuries and concussions. Results: The lifetime prevalence of any mental health condition was 14.0% for all athletes, 14.2% for male athletes, and 13.6% for female athletes. Individual sports reported a greater prevalence (17.2%) than did team sports (11.8%) (p = 0.010). The prevalence was also higher in contact sports (16.4%) than in non-contact sports (12.5%), although this difference was not statistically significant (p = 0.072). There was a significant association between mental health condition and all four major groups of injuries examined: upper extremity (p = 0.043), lower extremity (p = 0.007), axial skeletal (p < 0.001), and concussions (p = 0.039). Post-concussion depression occurred in 2.0% of all athletes reporting a concussion. Conclusion: The lifetime prevalence of mental health conditions in this population (14.0%) is far less than estimates in the general population. This observation may be due to a combination of factors including exercise/athletic participation mitigating depressive symptoms, competitive selection, and underreporting. History of a mental health condition may be associated with injury, although causation cannot be determined.		[Sarac, Nikolas; Sarac, Benjamin] Ohio State Univ, Coll Med, Columbus, OH 43210 USA; [Pedroza, Angela; Borchers, James] Ohio State Univ, Dept Sports Med, Columbus, OH 43210 USA; [Sarac, Nikolas] 99 W Hubbard Ave, Columbus, OH 43215 USA								18							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000432562800012	48	Article; Article		
J	Iannucci, Cassandra; MacPhail, Ann								One Teacher's Experience of Teaching Physical Education and Another School Subject: An Inter-Role Conflict?								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				89	2			235	245		10.1080/02701367.2018.1446069			2018	2018	Purpose: This study was situated within a longitudinal study of 5 teachers examining the realities of teaching physical education by determining the impact of individual dispositions and contextual factors on the career trajectories of postprimary physical education teachers in Ireland (Iannucci & MacPhail, 2017). One of these participants, Jane, was examined in this study to gain a greater understanding of the realities and tensions experienced by a postprimary teacher enacting 2 distinct sets of role expectations when teaching physical education and another school subject concurrently. Method: Data reported in this article were collected through a semistructured interview and living graph. An interpretative framework was used for analysis, assessing Jane's perceived meanings of the identified critical incidents in relation to role theory. Results: Teachers timetabled with physical education and another subject concurrently may be expected to navigate and negotiate 2 distinctly different roles within the school community causing difficulty in assuming both roles simultaneously. Short narratives were used to convey 2 themes: (a) role prioritization and (b) role performance. Conclusion: The study results suggest that the already complex and multifaceted role of a school teacher (Richards, Templin, Levesque-Bristol, & Blankenship, 2014) seems to be further complicated when teachers are tasked with simultaneously teaching physical education and another school subject. With the presence of a role conflict management strategy such as role prioritization (Stryker, 1968), one can presume that teachers who are tasked with teaching physical education and another school subject may experience some level of role conflict.		[Iannucci, Cassandra; MacPhail, Ann] Univ Limerick, Limerick, Ireland; [Iannucci, Cassandra] Univ Limerick, Dept Phys Educ, Limerick V94 T9PX, Ireland								18							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000434342600012	42	Article; Article		
J	Robinson, Leah E.; Palmer, Kara K.; Webster, E. Kipling; Logan, Samuel W.; Chinn, Katherine M.								The Effect of CHAMP on Physical Activity and Lesson Context in Preschoolers: A Feasibility Study								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				89	2			265	271		10.1080/02701367.2018.1441966			2018	2018	Purpose: This feasibility study compared the effects of 2 movement programs, traditional and mastery climate (i.e., the Children's Health Activity Motor Program [CHAMP]), on lesson context and children's physical activity (PA) levels. A secondary aim was to examine sex differences in PA levels in both programs. Method: Seventy-two preschoolers served as participants and were assigned to a movement program. Physical activity levels and lesson context were assessed with the System for Observing Fitness Instruction Time. Results: Preschoolers in CHAMP spent more time walking (p<.05, d=3.3), more time in moderate-to-vigorous PA (MVPA; p<.05, d=3.6), and less time standing (p<.05, d=3.8) compared with those in a traditional movement program. Boys in both programs spent less time standing (p<.05, d=4.8) and more time in vigorous activity (p<.05, d=5.8) and MVPA (p<.05, d=4.4) compared with girls. During CHAMP, children spent less time engaged in management and knowledge (p<.05, d=1.4, and p<.001, d=0.9, respectively) and more time in skill practice (p<.05, d=1.5). Conclusion: The findings support that participation in CHAMP elicits more MVPA in preschool-age children compared with a traditional movement program. The Children's Health Activity Motor Program provided children with more class time devoted to skill practice. The program appears to be an innovative approach that is beneficial for PA engagement and could contribute positively to children's health.		[Robinson, Leah E.; Palmer, Kara K.; Chinn, Katherine M.] Univ Michigan, 4745D CCRB,401 Washtenaw Ave, Ann Arbor, MI 48109 USA; [Webster, E. Kipling] Louisiana State Univ, Baton Rouge, LA 70803 USA; [Logan, Samuel W.] Oregon State Univ, Corvallis, OR 97331 USA; [Robinson, Leah E.] Univ Michigan, Sch Kinesiol, Child Movement Act & Dev Hlth Lab, 4745D CCRB,401 Washtenaw Ave, Ann Arbor, MI 48109 USA								29							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000434342600015	33	Article; Article		
J	Ishii, Takanori; Ae, Michiyoshi; Suzuki, Yuta; Kobayashi, Yasuto								Kinematic comparison of the seoi-nage judo technique between elite and college athletes								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				17	2			238	250		10.1080/14763141.2017.1284256			2018	2018	This study sought to identify biomechanical factors that determine fast and skilful execution of the seoi-nage (shoulder throw) technique by comparing kinematics between elite and college judo athletes. Three-dimensional motion data were captured using a VICON-MX system with 18 cameras operating at 250Hz as three male elite and seven male college judo athletes performed seoi-nage. No significant difference was found in motion phase time of the turning phase between the two groups, indicating that motion phase time is not necessarily a factor contributing quickness in seoi-nage. The maximum relative velocity of the whole body centre of mass along the anterior-posterior direction was significantly greater in the elite athletes (2.74 +/- 0.33m/s) than in the college athletes (1.62 +/- 0.47m/s) during the turning phase (p=0.023). The overall angular velocity of the body part lines, particularly the arm line, tended to be greater in the elite athletes (p=0.068). The results imply that the velocity of the thrower relative to the opponent in the forward drive and turning motion reflects high skill seoi-nage. Coaches should recognise the relative forward velocity as a factor that may contribute to a successful seoi-nage when teaching the judo throw technique.		[Ishii, Takanori] Univ Tsukuba, Phys Educ Hlth & Sport Sci, Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan; [Ae, Michiyoshi] Nippon Sport Sci Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Tokyo, Japan; [Suzuki, Yuta] Osaka City Univ, Res Ctr Urban Hlth & Sports, Osaka, Japan; [Kobayashi, Yasuto] Ibaraki Prefectural Univ Hlth Sci, Dept Phys Therapy, Ibaraki, Japan; [Ishii, Takanori] Univ Tsukuba, Phys Educ Hlth & Sport Sci, Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan								30							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000430052500009	17	Article; Article		
J	St Quinton, Tom; Brunton, Julie A.								The Identification of Reasons, Solutions, and Techniques Informing a Theory-Based Intervention Targeting Recreational Sports Participation								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				89	2			255	264		10.1080/02701367.2018.1443197			2018	2018	Purpose: This study is the 3rd piece of formative research utilizing the theory of planned behavior to inform the development of a behavior change intervention. Focus groups were used to identify reasons for and solutions to previously identified key beliefs in addition to potentially effective behavior change techniques. Method: A purposive sample of 22 first-year undergraduate students (n=8 men; M-age=19.8years, SD=1.3years) attending a university in the North of England was used. Focus groups were audio-recorded; recordings were transcribed verbatim, analyzed thematically, and coded for recurrent themes. Results: The data revealed 14 reasons regarding enjoyment, 11 reasons for friends' approval, 11 reasons for friends' own participation, 14 reasons for the approval of family members, and 10 solutions to time constraints. Twelve distinct techniques were suggested to attend to these reasons and solutions. Conclusion: This qualitative research will be used to inform the development of a theory-based intervention to increase students' participation in university recreational sports.		[St Quinton, Tom] Leeds Trinity Univ, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England; [Brunton, Julie A.] Sheffield Hallam Univ, Sheffield, S Yorkshire, England; [St Quinton, Tom] Leeds Trinity Univ, Sch Social & Hlth Sci, Brownberrie Lane, Leeds LS18 5HD, W Yorkshire, England								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000434342600014	24	Article; Article		
J	DiBartola, Alex C.; Swank, Katherine R.; Flanigan, David C.								Anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction complicated by <i>Propionibacterium acnes</i> infection: case series								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				46	3			273	278		10.1080/00913847.2018.1463062			2018	2018	Anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) reconstruction is one of the most commonly performed orthopaedic procedures. While generally successful, failure resulting in revision surgery is reported to be between 1.9 - 4.9%. However, when not related to traumatic re-injury, failure mechanism is poorly understood. One potential but understudied mechanism of ACL reconstruction failure is infection. We describe three patients with previous ACL reconstructions who later developed infection with Propionibacterium acnes. Two cases presented with knee pain and swelling, and one presented with instability. While only two of the three cases received antibiotic treatment, all three cases were free of knee and infectious symptomatology at most recent follow-up. P. acnes infection may represent one potential mechanism for biologic failure of ACL reconstruction and anaerobic operative cultures may be used to identify its presence.		[DiBartola, Alex C.; Flanigan, David C.] Ohio State Univ, Dept Orthopaed, Columbus, OH 43210 USA; [Swank, Katherine R.] Beaumont Hosp, Orthopaed, Royal Oak, MI USA; [Flanigan, David C.] Ohio State Univ, Dept Orthopaed, Cartilage Restorat Program, Columbus, OH 43210 USA; [Flanigan, David C.] Jameson Crane Sports Med Inst, 2835 Fred Taylor Dr, Columbus, OH 43202 USA								2							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000443915700005	33	Article; Article		
J	Goodman, Avi D.; Etzel, Christine; Raducha, Jeremy E.; Owens, Brett D.								Shoulder and elbow injuries in soccer goalkeepers versus field players in the National Collegiate Athletic Association, 2009-2010 through 2013-2014								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				46	3			304	311		10.1080/00913847.2018.1462083			2018	2018	Objectives: Examination of the incidence of shoulder and elbow injuries in the collegiate soccer player population is limited, as is comparison between goalkeepers and field players. We hypothesized that goalkeepers would have a higher incidence of shoulder and elbow injuries than field players. Furthermore, we sought to determine the incidence of shoulder and elbow injuries among National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) soccer players, and to determine injury risk factors. Methods: The NCAA Injury Surveillance Program database was analyzed for injuries to NCAA men's and women's soccer players during the 2009-2010 through 2013-2014 academic years. The incidence of injury was calculated per 10,000 athletic exposures (AE) for goalkeepers versus field players, activity, and injury characteristics, and compared using univariate analysis and risk-ratios to determine injury risk factors. Results: While the overall incidence of shoulder and elbow injuries in soccer players was 2.7/10,000AE [95% CI 2.62-2.78], the incidence among goalkeepers was 4.6-fold higher (8.3 vs. 1.8/10,000AE, p<0.0001). Goalkeepers had significantly higher incidences of injury in practice (21.3-fold) and in the preseason (16.1-fold) than field players. Women goalkeepers were disproportionately affected, with injury incidences 7.7-fold higher than women field players, and 1.9-fold higher than male goalkeepers. Acromioclavicular joint injuries, rotator cuff tears/sprains, and elbow and shoulder instability constituted the majority of the goalkeeper injuries. Conclusions: Shoulder and elbow injuries in NCAA soccer players are significantly more common in goalkeepers than field players. Incidence varies widely by position and injury, with a number of associated risk factors. Soccer players sustaining these injuries, along with their coaches and medical providers, may benefit from this injury data to best manage expectations and outcomes. Soccer governing bodies may use this to track injury incidence and response to preventative measures.		[Goodman, Avi D.; Raducha, Jeremy E.; Owens, Brett D.] Brown Univ, Rhode Isl Hosp, Dept Orthopaed, 593 Eddy St, Providence, RI 02903 USA; [Etzel, Christine] Brown Univ, Providence, RI 02903 USA; [Goodman, Avi D.] Brown Univ, Rhode Isl Hosp, Dept Orthopaed, 593 Eddy St, Providence, RI 02903 USA								17							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000443915700007	25	Article; Article		
J	Michailov, Michail Lubomirov; Balas, Jiri; Tanev, Stoyan Kolev; Andonov, Hristo Stoyanov; Kodejska, Jan; Brown, Lee								Reliability and Validity of Finger Strength and Endurance Measurements in Rock Climbing								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				89	2			246	254		10.1080/02701367.2018.1441484			2018	2018	Purpose: An advanced system for the assessment of climbing-specific performance was developed and used to: (a) investigate the effect of arm fixation (AF) on construct validity evidence and reliability of climbing-specific finger-strength measurement; (b) assess reliability of finger-strength and endurance measurements; and (c) evaluate the relationship between finger flexor all-out test scores and climbing ability. Methods: To determine the effect of AF, 22 male climbers performed 2 maximal strength and all-out tests with AF (shoulder and elbow flexed at 90 degrees) and without AF (shoulder flexed at 180 degrees and elbow fully extended). To determine reliability, 9 male climbers completed 2 maximal strength tests with and without AF and an all-out and intermittent test without AF. Results: The maximal strength test without AF more strongly determined climbing ability than the test with AF (r(2)=.48 and r(2)=.42 for sport climbing; r(2)=.66 and r(2)=.42 for bouldering, respectively). Force and time variables were highly reliable; the rate of force development and fatigue index had moderate and low reliability. The maximal strength test with AF provided slightly higher reliability than without AF (intraclass correlation coefficient [ICC]=0.94, ICC=0.88, respectively). However, smaller maximal forces were achieved during AF (484 +/- 112N) than without AF (546 +/- 132N). All-out test average force had sufficiently high reliability (ICC=0.92) and a relationship to sport climbing (r(2)=.42) and bouldering ability (r(2)=.58). Conclusion: Finger strength and endurance measurements provided sufficient construct validity evidence and high reliability for time and force parameters. Arm fixation provides more reliable results; however, the position without AF is recommended as it is more related to climbing ability.		[Michailov, Michail Lubomirov; Andonov, Hristo Stoyanov] Natl Sports Acad, Sofia, Bulgaria; [Balas, Jiri; Kodejska, Jan] Charles Univ Prague, Prague, Czech Republic; [Tanev, Stoyan Kolev] Bulgarian Acad Sci, Sofia, Bulgaria; [Brown, Lee] Calif State Univ Fullerton, Fullerton, CA 92634 USA; [Michailov, Michail Lubomirov] Natl Sports Acad, Theory & Methodol Sports Training, Akad Stefan Mladenov 21, Sofia 1710, Bulgaria								57							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000434342600013	27	Article; Article		
J	Do, Hyun-Kyung; Lee, Joong-Hoon; Lim, Jae-Young								Polydeoxyribonucleotide injection in the patients with partial-thickness tear of supraspinatus tendon: a prospective and pilot study using ultrasound								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				46	2			213	220		10.1080/00913847.2018.1450059			2018	2018	Objective: Polydeoxyribonucleotide as adenosine receptor (A(2A)) agonist has been used in plastic surgery and dermatology related to its regenerative property. The aim of this pilot study is to evaluate the safety and efficacy of polydeoxynucleotide injection in patients with rotator cuff tears by a variety of outcomes including pain, disability, physical performance test, and ultrasonography (US). Methods: Seventeen patients (9 men, 8 women, age: 57.9 +/- 9.1) with partial-thickness tear of supraspinatus tendon were evaluated in a prospective, open-label, and pre-and-post study. Seventeen patients underwent 3 times intra-lesional polydeoxynucleotide injection under ultrasound (US) guidance on weeks 0, 2 and 4. The safety and efficacy were assessed on weeks 0, 6 and 12. Main outcome measures included shoulder pain on Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) and DASH (disabilities of arm, hand, shoulder) score, range of motion in shoulder, shoulder strength and tear volume (cm(3)) by US. Adverse events were monitored. (CRIS: https://www.cris.nih.go.kr, KCT0000767). Results: Active shoulder pain on VAS reduced from 5.53 to 3.53 (P = 0.016), and acting pain, one of DASH questionnaires, reduced from 3.35 to 2.00 (P < 0.001). However, resting shoulder pain on VAS and total DASH scores were not significantly different. Forward flexion and internal rotation in range of motion improved significantly (from 169.41 to 178.13 degrees [P = 0.004] and from 83.53 to 88.75 degrees [P = 0.014], respectively). The volume of torn lesion decreased during the study period, however it was not significant. There were no significant adverse events leading to hospitalization. Conclusions: Minimally invasive procedure through polydeoxynucleotide injection into torn area of supraspinatus tendon on US could be candidate for the safe and effective treatment on shoulder pain and limited range of motion in patients with rotator cuff tear.		[Do, Hyun-Kyung; Lee, Joong-Hoon; Lim, Jae-Young] Seoul Natl Univ, Bundang Hosp, Dept Rehabil Med, Coll Med, 300 Gumi Dong, Seongnam Si 463707, Gyeonggi Do, South Korea; [Lim, Jae-Young] Seoul Natl Univ, Bundang Hosp, Dept Rehabil Med, Coll Med, 300 Gumi Dong, Seongnam Si 463707, Gyeonggi Do, South Korea								7							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000432562800008	47	Article; Article		
J	Regus, Susanne; Almasi-Sperling, Veronika; Janka, Rolf; Rother, Ulrich; Lell, Michael; Meyer, Alexander; Lang, Werner								MRI to investigate iliac artery wall thickness in triathletes								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				46	3			393	398		10.1080/00913847.2018.1450060			2018	2018	Objectives: Endofibrosis was first described in endurance athletes. This rare disease is characterized by intimal hyperplasia of iliac arteries. Due to non-specific symptoms diagnosing could be very challenging and delayed. This represents a serious problem not only for affected athletes but also for consulting physicians. The aim of this study was to analyze intimal thickness of iliac arteries using non-contrast magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in competitive triathletes suffering from exercise induced leg pain consistent with symptoms caused by endofibrosis. Methods: 18 highly trained triathletes (16 triathletes, 12 male) with a mean age of 45.4 +/- 10.2 years were investigated by non-contrast MRI. We divided subjects into two groups: 10 complaint about exercise- induced leg pain and 7 were free of any symptoms. In all 10 symptomatic athletes consulting physicians excluded musculoskeletal or neurological disorders before and we suspected endofibrosis. One patient was excluded from statistical analysis due to a known recurrent external iliac artery (EIA) occlusion after surgical repair 6 month ago. Results: Mean wall thickness (T) of all 17 subjects was 1.34 +/- 0.11 mm for the common iliac artery (CIA) and 1.74 +/- 0.18 mm for the EIA. We found no significant differences by comparing T of symptomatic (s) and asymptomatic (a) legs. There were no significant differences in mean ratio of patent artery to whole artery between the symptomatic and asymptomatic legs for the CIA (0.81 vs 0.82, p = 0.87) and for the EIA (0.71 vs 0.72, p = 0.78). MRI shows a thickening of the left EIA (4.41mm) in the patient who suffered from recurrent occlusion of the left EIA and after surgical repair and histological examination confirmed an endofibrotic lesion. Conclusion: Non-contrast MRI seems to be an appropriate diagnostic tool to exclude endofibrosis in triathletes, but it cannot be recommended as initial screening modality for athletes suffering from exercise-induced leg pain.		[Regus, Susanne; Almasi-Sperling, Veronika; Rother, Ulrich; Meyer, Alexander; Lang, Werner] Univ Hosp, Dept Vasc Surg, Krankenhausstr 12, D-91054 Erlangen, Germany; [Janka, Rolf; Lell, Michael] Univ Hosp, Inst Radiol, Erlangen, Germany; [Regus, Susanne] Univ Hosp, Dept Vasc Surg, Krankenhausstr 12, D-91054 Erlangen, Germany								4							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000443915700020	39	Article; Article		
J	Goodman, Avi D.; Twomey-Kozak, John; DeFroda, Steven F.; Owens, Brett D.								Epidemiology of shoulder and elbow injuries in National Collegiate Athletic Association wrestlers, 2009-2010 through 2013-2014								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				46	3			361	366		10.1080/00913847.2018.1425596			2018	2018	Objectives: Examination of the incidence of shoulder and elbow injuries in the collegiate wrestling population is limited. Therefore, we sought to determine the incidence of shoulder and elbow injuries in wrestlers competing in the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA), and investigate the risk factors involved. Methods: All shoulder and elbow injuries in wrestlers from the 2009-2010 through 2013-2014 academic years in the NCAA Injury Surveillance Program database were extracted. The incidence of different injuries, sports, activity, time-in-game, competition status, and injury characteristics was recorded. Risk-ratios were calculated to determine risk factors for injury. Results: Collegiate wrestlers had an incidence of 21.59 shoulder and elbow injuries per 10,000 athletic exposures (AEs). The most frequent injury types included elbow ulnar collateral ligament tears, shoulder impingement, and acromioclavicular joint sprains, although there was significant variability. Freshman collegiate wrestlers suffered a significantly higher percentage of shoulder and elbow injuries than more senior athletes, signifying an association between experience and injury risk. There was a 4-fold higher incidence of injury during competition. Injuries were significantly more likely to occur later in the match, with a 2.5-fold increased risk compared with early. While 26.8% of wrestlers were out of play for at least 14 days, only 5.9% of all injuries required surgery. Lastly, Division I collegiate wrestlers had the highest overall injury rate. Conclusions: Collegiate wrestlers have a high incidence of shoulder and elbow injury, with specific risk factors identified here. This at-risk patient population should be monitored closely for signs of fatigue, which may leave them susceptible to injury. Further prospective investigation of wrestling injuries with a special attention to injury prevention in higher risk athletes are needed to further validate these findings.		[Goodman, Avi D.; DeFroda, Steven F.; Owens, Brett D.] Brown Univ, Rhode Isl Hosp, Dept Orthopaed, Providence, RI 02903 USA; [Twomey-Kozak, John; Owens, Brett D.] Univ Orthopaed, Div Sports Med, Providence, RI USA; [Goodman, Avi D.] Brown Univ, Rhode Isl Hosp, Dept Orthopaed, Providence, RI 02903 USA								10							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000443915700016	26	Article; Article		
J	Gouttebarge, Vincent; Aoki, Haruhito; Kerkhoffs, Gino M. M. J.								Lower extremity osteoarthritis is associated with lower health-related quality of life among retired professional footballers								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				46	4			471	476		10.1080/00913847.2018.1451718			2018	2018	Objective: The objective of the current study was to explore whether retired professional footballers suffering from lower extremity OA have a lower health-related quality of life than those without OA or current professional footballers. Methods: An observational study based on a cross-sectional design by means of questionnaires was conducted. Participants were retired and current professional footballers recruited by the World Players' Union (FIFPro). Information about lower extremity OA (clinically diagnosed by a medical professional) was gathered, while health-related quality of life (Global Physical Health and Global Mental Health scores) was assessed through a validated scale. Results: A total of 396 retired and 361 current professional footballers were included in the analyses (response rate of 54%). The group of retired professional footballers was on average 36 years old, and they had competed in professional football for 11 years (retired for 5 years). The group of current professional footballers was on average 25 years old, and they had been active in professional football for 7 years. Within the group of retired professional footballers, prevalence of lower extremity OA was 33%. Both Global Physical Health and Global Mental Health scores among retired professional footballers with lower extremity OA were significantly lower than among retired players without OA and current players, but these scores were nearly similar to the norm for the general population (regardless the presence of OA or not). Conclusions: Health-related quality of life among retired professional footballers with lower extremity OA was significantly lower than among retired players without OA and current players but nearly similar to the norm for the general population (regardless the presence of OA or not). A rational recommendation is that a support measure such as the After Career Consultation should be introduced among retired professional footballers in order to empower their sustainable health and quality of life, focussing especially on the prevention of the occurrence or worsening of lower extremity OA.		[Gouttebarge, Vincent] World Players Union FIFPro, Scorpius 161, NL-2132 LR Hoofddorp, Netherlands; [Gouttebarge, Vincent; Kerkhoffs, Gino M. M. J.] Univ Amsterdam, Amsterdam Movement Sci, Acad Med Ctr, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Gouttebarge, Vincent; Kerkhoffs, Gino M. M. J.] Acad Med Ctr, Acad Ctr Evidence Based Sports Med ACES, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Gouttebarge, Vincent; Kerkhoffs, Gino M. M. J.] AMC VUmc IOC Res Ctr, ACHSS, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Gouttebarge, Vincent] Univ Cape Town, Div Exercise Sci & Sports Med, Cape Town, South Africa; [Aoki, Haruhito] St Marianna Univ, Sch Med, Kawasaki, Kanagawa, Japan; [Aoki, Haruhito] Yokohama City Sports Med Ctr, Yokohama, Kanagawa, Japan; [Gouttebarge, Vincent] World Players Union FIFPro, Scorpius 161, NL-2132 LR Hoofddorp, Netherlands								24							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000452020500011	30	Article; Article		
J	Farias, Claudio; Mesquita, Isabel; Hastie, Peter A.; O'Donovan, Toni								Mediating Peer Teaching for Learning Games: An Action Research Intervention Across Three Consecutive Sport Education Seasons								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				89	1			91	102		10.1080/02701367.2017.1402114			2018	2018	Purpose: The purpose of this study was to provide an integrated analysis of a teacher's peer-teaching mediation strategies, the student-coaches' instruction, and the students' gameplay development across 3 consecutive seasons of sport education. Method: Twenty-six 7th-grade students participated in 3 consecutive sport education seasons of invasion games (basketball, handball, and soccer). The research involved 3 action research cycles, 1 per season, and each cycle included the processes of planning, acting and monitoring, reflecting, and fact finding. Data collection consisted of videotape and audiotape records of all 47 lessons, a reflective field diary kept by the first author in the role of teacher-researcher, and a total of 24 semistructured focus-group interviews. Trustworthiness criteria for assuring the quality of qualitative research included extensive data triangulation, stakeholders' crosschecking, and collaborative interpretational analysis. Results: Through the application of systematic preparation strategies, student-coaches were able to successfully conduct team instruction that resulted in students' tactical development and improved performance. Aspects such as the study of predominant configurations of players' gameplay and similar tactical principles across games within the same category prevented a setback in the complexity of the learning content addressed at the beginning of each season. Players also showed an increasing ability to adapt gameplay to game conditions. Conclusions: While sport education has the capacity to develop competent players, different levels of teacher guidance and learners' instructional responsibility are necessary when teaching tactics.		[Farias, Claudio; Mesquita, Isabel] Univ Porto, Porto, Portugal; [Farias, Claudio; O'Donovan, Toni] Univ Bedfordshire, Luton, Beds, England; [Hastie, Peter A.] Auburn Univ, Auburn, AL 36849 USA; [Farias, Claudio] Univ Lusofona Humanities & Technol, Lisbon, Portugal; [Farias, Claudio] Univ Lusofona Humanities & Technol, Sch Phys Educ & Sport, Campo Grande 376, P-1749024 Lisbon, Portugal								20							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000428283300009	21	Article; Article		
J	Lindsay, Keston G.; Nichols, David L.; Davis, Ronald W.; Marshall, David D.								The Effect of Whole-Body Vibration on Lower-Body Resistance Detraining in College-Age Women								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				89	1			57	65		10.1080/02701367.2017.1401210			2018	2018	Purpose: This study explored the effect of whole-body vibration (WBV) using accelerations of 2.56 g to 7.68 g on lower-body detraining. Methods: All participants (N = 20) were trained using a lower-body resistance-training program for 30 min twice per week from Week 0 to Week 6. At the end of the program, they were randomly assigned to a control group that performed no further training or a WBV group that performed a progressive static WBV program. Data for the 5-repetition-maximum (5RM) squat and extensors and flexors of the knee and ankle were collected at Weeks 0, 6, 8, 10, and 12 for all participants. Results: Two-way (condition vs. time) analysis of variance revealed that although the WBV group maintained strength in the 5RM from Week 6 through Week 8 and the control group had a lower 5RM in Week 8 from Week 6, no differences in the 5RM squat existed between the groups at Week 8. Two-way factorial multivariate analysis of variance revealed no differences between the groups at any of the time for torque of knee flexion, dorsiflexion, or plantar flexion. Conclusion: Static WBV of 2.56 g to 7.68 g did not attenuate detraining of the flexors and extensors of the knee and ankle.		[Lindsay, Keston G.] Univ Colorado, Colorado Springs, CO 80907 USA; [Nichols, David L.; Davis, Ronald W.; Marshall, David D.] Texas Womans Univ, Denton, TX 76204 USA; [Lindsay, Keston G.] Univ Colorado, Hlth Sci, 1420 Austin Bluffs Pkwy, Colorado Springs, CO 80918 USA								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000428283300006	34	Article; Article		
J	Pizzera, Alexandra; Moeller, Carsten; Plessner, Henning								Gaze Behavior of Gymnastics Judges: Where Do Experienced Judges and Gymnasts Look While Judging?								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				89	1			112	119		10.1080/02701367.2017.1412392			2018	2018	Gymnastics judges and former gymnasts have been shown to be quite accurate in detecting errors and accurately judging performance. Purpose: The purpose of the current study was to examine if this superior judging performance is reflected in judges' gaze behavior. Method: Thirty-five judges were asked to judge 21 gymnasts who performed a skill on the vault in a video-based test. Classifying 1 sample on 2 different criteria, judging performance and gaze behavior were compared between judges with a higher license level and judges with a lower license level and between judges who were able to perform the skill (specific motor experience [SME]) and those who were not. Results: The results revealed better judging performance among judges with a higher license level compared with judges with a lower license level and more fixations on the gymnast during the whole skill and the landing phase, specifically on the head and arms of the gymnast. Specific motor experience did not result in any differences in judging performance; however, judges with SME showed similar gaze patterns to those of judges with a high license level, with 1 difference in their increased focus on the gymnasts' feet. Conclusion: Superior judging performance seems to be reflected in a specific gaze behavior. This gaze behavior appears to partly stem from judges' own sensorimotor experiences for this skill and reflects the gymnasts' perspective onto the skill.		[Pizzera, Alexandra; Moeller, Carsten] German Sport Univ Cologne, Cologne, Germany; [Plessner, Henning] Heidelberg Univ, Heidelberg, Germany; [Pizzera, Alexandra] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Training & Comp Sci Sport, Sportpk Mungersdorf 6, D-50933 Cologne, Germany								37							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000428283300011	18	Article; Article		
J	Limpens, Vera; Buszard, Tim; Shoemaker, Emma; Savelsbergh, Geert J. P.; Reid, Machar								Scaling Constraints in Junior Tennis: The Influence of Net Height on Skilled Players' Match-Play Performance								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				89	1			1	10		10.1080/02701367.2017.1413230			2018	2018	Purpose: The net height in tennis (0.91 m) is approximately 50% of a professional tennis player's height. Children are also expected to play with this net height, even though it is approximately 70% of the average 10-year-old's height. This study examined the immediate effect of lowering net height on the performance characteristics of skilled junior tennis players aged 10 years and younger. Method: Sixteen players were matched in 8 pairs of even tennis ability and same sex. Each pair played 25-min singles matches in 4 conditions that varied in net height (0.91 m, 0.78 m, 0.65 m, and 0.52 m). Match-play characteristics were analyzed via video replay. Results: Results showed that lowering the net height to 0.65 m and 0.52 m led to players adopting a more attacking style of play, as evidenced by a significant increase in the number of winners without a commensurate increase in errors and more shots struck inside the baseline. Lower nets also led to a greater percentage of successful first serves. The lowest net (0.52 m), however, reduced rally length significantly and therefore decreased hitting opportunities. Conclusion: These results offer support for equipment scaling to enhance match-play performance for skilled junior tennis players. We propose that current net height recommendations for junior tennis should be revised.		[Limpens, Vera; Savelsbergh, Geert J. P.] Vrije Univ Amsterdam, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Buszard, Tim] Victoria Univ, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Buszard, Tim; Shoemaker, Emma; Reid, Machar] Tennis Australia, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Savelsbergh, Geert J. P.] Amsterdam Univ Appl Sci, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Buszard, Tim] Victoria Univ, Coll Sport & Exercise Sci, Inst Sport Exercise & Act Living, POB 14428, Melbourne, Vic 8001, Australia								36							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000428283300001	39	Article; Article		
J	Luiggi, Maxime; Rindler, Victoria; Griffet, Jean								From which level of competition in clubs are adolescents at greater risk of injury compared with outside-of-clubs athletes? A school-based study								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				46	1			66	72		10.1080/00913847.2018.1402665			2018	2018	Objectives: Sport practice is a key factor in a person's physical and mental health but, for adolescent athletes, some injuries lead to health problems in the long term. The literature provides multiple factors for understanding injury but does not give information about injury risk related to each level of play in a large sample of multisport athletes. This study investigates this relationship in 14- to 19-year-old adolescents. Methods: The survey on adolescents and health was conducted in classrooms of France, from February to March 2015. Only sports players were included in the analyses (n = 986). The levels of play were divided into five categories: outside of a club/no competition, club player/no competition, club player/local level, club player/state level and club player/national and higher level. A three-step binary logistic regression analysis with age, sex, type of sport, weekly hours of exposure, and level of play was used. Results: During the past year, 48.1% of the adolescents were injured. Age and sex were not risk factors. The injury risk associated with the increases in level of play is higher than those related to the hours of exposure per week or the type of sport. In clubs, adolescents who do not compete or play at a local level showed no evidence of greater injury risk whereas state-level and national- and higher-level athletes were at greater risk than outside-of-club players (OR = 2.18, 95%CI = 1.13-3.94 and OR = 3.89, 95%CI = 2.07-7.31, respectively). Conclusion: Adolescents who play sports in clubs are clearly more exposed to injury than those who play outside of a club, mainly from state level. Age and sex are not related to injury. Future epidemiological studies should control adolescents' level of play. Special attention should be accorded to the injury risk of athletes playing at these levels of competition.		[Luiggi, Maxime; Rindler, Victoria; Griffet, Jean] Aix Marseille Univ, CNRS, ISM, Inst Movement Sci, Marseille, France; [Luiggi, Maxime] Aix Marseille Univ, CNRS, ISM, Inst Movement Sci, Marseille, France								8							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000423678500012	45	Article; Article		
J	Sugimoto, Dai; McCartney, Ronald E.; Parisien, Robert L.; Dashe, Jesse; Borg, Dennis R.; Meehan, William P., III								Range of motion and ankle injury history association with sex in pediatric and adolescent athletes								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				46	1			24	29		10.1080/00913847.2018.1413919			2018	2018	Background: Ankle sprain is one of the most common musculoskeletal injuries among young athletes, and there remains a gap in the literature regarding susceptibility to such injuries among physically active youth.Objective: The primary purpose of this study was to determine the associations between sex, a history of ankle sprain, and ankle range of motion (ROM) in pediatric and adolescent athletes. Methods: Athletes under the age of 18years old who presented to a sports injury prevention center underwent ankle ROM measurements including plantarflexion (PF), inversion (IV), and eversion (EV). A two-way analysis of covariance (ANCOVA) was performed to examine effect of sex and a history of ankle sprain on ROMs. Also, a binary logistic regression was performed to investigate variables that are associated with a history of ankle injury. Results: Among 452 pediatric and adolescent athletes [268 females (13.6 +/- 2.3years old) and 184 males (13.3 +/- 2.5years old)], 128 reported a history of previous ankle sprain. Females demonstrated significantly increased ROMs (PF and IV bilaterally, and right EV) compared to males while there was no effect of a history of ankle sprain on ROMs. Female sex was independently associated with a history of ankle sprain. Conclusion: There was a strong effect of female sex on ROMs rather than a history of ankle injury history. Additionally, pediatric and adolescent females have greater odds of a history of ankle sprain when compared to their male counterparts.		[Sugimoto, Dai; Borg, Dennis R.; Meehan, William P., III] Micheli Ctr Sports Injury Prevent, Waltham, MA USA; [Sugimoto, Dai; Borg, Dennis R.; Meehan, William P., III] Boston Childrens Hosp, Dept Orthopaed, Div Sports Med, Boston, MA USA; [Sugimoto, Dai; Meehan, William P., III] Harvard Med Sch, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Boston, MA USA; [McCartney, Ronald E.; Parisien, Robert L.; Dashe, Jesse] Boston Univ, Med Ctr, Boston, MA USA; [Sugimoto, Dai] Boston Childrens Hosp, Micheli Ctr Sports Injury Prevent, 9 Hope Ave,Suite 100, Waltham, MA 02453 USA								12							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000423678500005	35	Article; Article		
J	Biggins, Michelle; Cahalan, Roisin; Comyns, Thomas; Purtill, Helen; O'Sullivan, Kieran								Poor sleep is related to lower general health, increased stress and increased confusion in elite Gaelic athletes								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				46	1			14	20		10.1080/00913847.2018.1416258			2018	2018	Objectives: Persistent poor sleep is associated with a range of adverse health outcomes. Sleep is considered the main method of recovery in athletes; however, studies report that a significant number of athletes are getting insufficient sleep. The purpose of this study was to assess the sleep profiles of elite Gaelic athletes and to compare wellbeing in those with poor sleep and those with good sleep. Methods: 69 elite Gaelic athletes completed questionnaires, including the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI), Subjective Health Complaints Inventory (SHC), Nordic Musculoskeletal Questionnaire (NMQ), stress subscale of the Depression Anxiety Stress Scale (DASS), the tension-anxiety, anger-hostility and confusion-bewilderment subscales of the Profile of Mood States (POMS) as well as the catastrophising subscale of the Coping Strategies Questionnaire (CSQ). Participants were categorised into poor sleepers (PSQI5) and good sleepers (PSQI <5) and outcome measures of health and wellbeing were analysed between the two groups. Results: 47.8% of athletes were poor sleepers. Self-reported sleep duration was 7.50.6h per night. 63.7% of poor sleepers took >30min to fall asleep, compared to 5.6% of good sleepers. Poor sleepers had significantly lower general health (SHC) (p = 0.029), increased stress (DASS) (p = 0.035) and increased confusion (POMS-subscale) (p = 0.005). There was no significant difference between groups for number of painful body parts (NMQ) (p = 0.052), catastrophising (CSQ) (p = 0.287), overall mood (POMS) (p = 0.059), or POMS subscales of anger (p = 0.346) or tension (p=0.593). Conclusion: Nearly 50% of elite Gaelic athletes report poor sleep. There is a significant relationship between poor sleep and lower general health, increased stress and increased confusion, and these factors may interact with each other. Monitoring of and interventions to enhance sleep may be required to improve athletes' wellbeing.		[Biggins, Michelle; Cahalan, Roisin; O'Sullivan, Kieran] Univ Limerick, Dept Clin Therapies, Limerick, Ireland; [Comyns, Thomas] Univ Limerick, Dept Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Limerick, Ireland; [Purtill, Helen] Univ Limerick, Dept Sci & Engn, Limerick, Ireland; [O'Sullivan, Kieran] Aspetar Orthopaed & Sports Med Hosp, Doha, Ad Dawhah, Qatar; [Biggins, Michelle] Univ Limerick, Dept Clin Therapies, Limerick, Ireland								43							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000423678500003	55	Article; Article		
J	Chen, Huifen; Li, Suyun; Ruan, Tingyu; Liu, Li; Fang, Li								Is it necessary to perform prehabilitation exercise for patients undergoing total knee arthroplasty: meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				46	1			36	43		10.1080/00913847.2018.1403274			2018	2018	Objectives: This study was designed to test whether it is necessary to perform prehabilitation exercise for patients undergoing total knee arthroplasty (TKA). Methods: Literatures were identified from Pubmed, Clinicaltrials, Cochrane library, and SpringerLink. All studies that compared a prehabilitation exercise group with control group before TKA were included. The primary outcome was length of hospital stay. Secondary outcomes were quadriceps strength and functional ability in short term (1.5 to 3months) after TKA. Results: There was significant difference in the length of hospital stay, knee range of motion (ROM) and sit-to-stand test (P < 0.05). No statistical differences were found in quadriceps strength, 6-minute walk, ROM, knee extension, knee flexion, WOMAC pain, WOMAC function, WOMAC stiffness between the two groups in short term after TKA (P > 0.05). Conclusions: Our meta-analysis found that prehabilitation exercise was effective in reducing length of hospital stay. Importantly, it was an effective method for improving knee ROM and sit-to-stand test after TKA. However, there was no effect of prehabilitation exercise on the improvement of quadriceps strength, 6-minute walk, pain and functional recovery following TKA.		[Chen, Huifen; Li, Suyun; Ruan, Tingyu; Liu, Li; Fang, Li] Huazhong Univ Sci & Technol, Union Hosp, Dept Orthopaed, Tongji Med Coll, Wuhan, Hubei, Peoples R China; [Chen, Huifen] Huazhong Univ Sci & Technol, Union Hosp, Dept Orthopaed, Tongji Med Coll, Wuhan, Hubei, Peoples R China								60							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000423678500007	30	Article; Article		
J	Cunningham, Gregory; Martineau, Paul A.; Gohil, Satyen								The drill wobble effect: oversizing the femoral tunnel during ACL reconstruction								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				46	1			44	47		10.1080/00913847.2018.1410426			2018	2018	Objectives: In ACL reconstruction, autologous tendon graft can be attached to the femur, within a boney tunnel, using an Endobutton device. The ultimate aim being to achieve biological fixation and incorporation into the bone. Accurate bone tunnel diameter to match the tendon graft is vital to biologic incorporation and strength. The common technique of in sequence passing a guide wire, a cannulated 4.5 mm Endobutton drill, then a cannulated femoral socket drill causes the guidewire to lose cortical fixation and stability before the femoral socket drill is passed. The Objective of this study is to analyze this common technique of femoral socket creation and determine if it results in unintentionally oversizing the femoral socket due to femoral socket drill-wobble over a destabilised guide wire. Methods: 12 cadaveric femoral pairs equally divided between two groups underwent femoral socket creation in one of the two following sequences.Group 1: Guidewire, 4.5 mm endobutton drill, 8 mm femoral socket drill. Group 2: Guidewire, 8 mm femoral socket drill, 4.5 mm endobutton drill. The created femoral tunnels apertures and calibres were measured and then compared for accuracy between the two groups. Results: Passing the 4.5 mm drill before the 8 mm socket drill results in oversized tunnel apertures and calibres when compared to passing an 8 mm socket drill after the 4.5 mm drill has been passed (p<0.0001). Conclusion: To most precisely create an 8 mm femoral socket in ACL reconstruction, the 8 mm femoral socket reamer followed by the 4.5 mm should be passed over the guide wire to prevent guide wire destabilization and drill-wobble.		[Cunningham, Gregory; Gohil, Satyen] Fiona Stanley Hosp, Orthopaed Surg, 11 Robin Warren Dr, Murdoch, WA 6150, Australia; [Martineau, Paul A.] McGill Univ, Div Orthopaed Surg, Hlth Ctr, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Cunningham, Gregory] Fiona Stanley Hosp, Orthopaed Surg, 11 Robin Warren Dr, Murdoch, WA 6150, Australia								1							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000423678500008	12	Article; Article		
J	Heyer, Jessica H.; Kuang, Xiangyu; Amdur, Richard L.; Pandarinath, Rajeev								Identifiable risk factors for thirty-day complications following arthroscopic rotator cuff repair								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				46	1			56	60		10.1080/00913847.2018.1388732			2018	2018	Objectives: Shoulder arthroscopy has increased in frequency over the past decade, with rotator cuff repair comprising the majority of cases performed. Prior studies have detailed risk factors for 30-day complications and readmission rates after arthroscopic shoulder surgery using the National Surgical Quality Improvement Program (NSQIP) database, but no study has specifically looked at arthroscopic rotator cuff repair. The purpose of the study is to evaluate the risk factors for 30-day complications following arthroscopic rotator cuff repair using the NSQIP database. Methods: The NSQIP database was queried for all patients undergoing arthroscopic rotator cuff repair from 2006-2015. Demographics and thirty-day outcomes for these patients were analyzed using univariate analyses and multivariate regression analysis to determine the risk factors for complications. Results: 21,143 patients underwent arthroscopic rotator cuff repair, with 147 patients (0.70%) having a complication within 30-days. Univariate analysis found age >65 (p = 0.0028), male gender (p = 0.0053), elevated BMI (p = 0.0054), ASA class >2 (p < 0.0001), history of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (p<0.0001), hypertension (p < 0.0002), dyspnea (p < 0.0001), steroid use (p = 0.0350), and operative time >90min (p = 0.0316) to be associated with increased risk of complications. Multivariate analysis found female sex to be protective or complication (OR 0.56, p = 0.0017), while American Society of Anesthesiology (ASA) class >2 (OR 1.51, p = 0.0335) and history of COPD (OR 2.41, p = 0.0030) and dyspnea (OR 1.89, p = 0.0359) to be risk factors for complication. The most common complication is venothromboembolic events, accounting for 36.7% of all complications. Conclusion: Male sex, ASA class > 2, and history of COPD and dyspnea were independent risk factors for thirty-day complications following arthroscopic rotator cuff repair.Level of evidence: IV		[Heyer, Jessica H.; Pandarinath, Rajeev] George Washington Univ Hosp, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Washington, DC USA; [Kuang, Xiangyu; Amdur, Richard L.] George Washington Univ, Dept Surg, Med Fac Associates, Washington, DC USA; [Heyer, Jessica H.] 2300 M St NW, Washington, DC 20037 USA								17							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000423678500010	26	Article; Article		
J	Mardani-Kivi, Mohsen; Karimi-Mobarakeh, Mahmoud; Jandaghi, Ali Babaei; Keyhani, Sohrab; Saheb-Ekhtiari, Khashayar; Hashemi-Motlagh, Keyvan								Intra-sheath versus extra-sheath ultrasound guided corticosteroid injection for trigger finger: a triple blinded randomized clinical trial								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				46	1			93	97		10.1080/00913847.2018.1400897			2018	2018	Objective: The aim of this study is to compare clinical results of ultrasound-guided corticosteroid injection, intra-sheath versus extra-sheath of the finger flexor tendon. Methods: A total of 166 patients with trigger finger were evaluated in a triple blind randomized clinical trial study. All the patients were injected with 1ml of 40mg/ml methyl prednisolone acetate, under the guidance of ultrasound. Half the patients were injected extra sheath, while the other half were injected intra sheath at the level of first annular pulley. Results: The two groups were comparable in baseline characteristics (age, gender, dominant hand, involved hand and finger, and the symptoms duration). No significant difference was observed in the two groups with regards to Quinnell grading. In the final visit, 94% of patients from each group were symptom free. Conclusion: Results of corticosteroid injection intra-sheath or extra-sheath of the finger flexor tendon under ultrasound guidance in patients with trigger finger are comparably alike. Extra-sheath injection at the level of A1 pulley is as effective as an Intra-sheath administration.		[Mardani-Kivi, Mohsen] Guilan Univ Med Sci, Trauma Res Ctr, Orthoped Dept, Guilan Rd, Rasht, Iran; [Karimi-Mobarakeh, Mahmoud] Kerman Univ Med Sci, Sch Med, Orthoped Dept, Kerman, Iran; [Jandaghi, Ali Babaei] Guilan Univ Med Sci, Trauma Res Ctr, Radiol Dept, Guilan Rd, Rasht, Iran; [Keyhani, Sohrab] Shahid Beheshti Univ Med Sci, Sch Med, Orthoped Dept, Tehran, Iran; [Saheb-Ekhtiari, Khashayar; Hashemi-Motlagh, Keyvan] Guilan Univ Med Sci, Trauma Res Ctr, Guilan Rd, Rasht, Iran; [Mardani-Kivi, Mohsen] Guilan Univ Med Sci, Trauma Res Ctr, Orthoped Dept, Guilan Rd, Rasht, Iran								16							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000423678500016	29	Article; Article		
J	MacLean, Catriona; Dillon, John; Babraj, John A.; Vollaard, Niels B. J.								The effect of low volume sprint interval training in patients with non-alcoholic fatty liver disease								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				46	1			87	92		10.1080/00913847.2018.1411171			2018	2018	Objectives: Exercise is an important part of disease management in patients with non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), but adherence to current exercise recommendations is poor. Novel low-volume sprint interval training (SIT) protocols with total training time commitments of 30 min per week have been shown to improve cardiometabolic risk and functional capacity in healthy sedentary participants, but the efficacy of such protocols in the management of NAFLD remains unknown. The aim of the present study was to examine whether a low-volume SIT protocol can be used to improve liver function, insulin resistance, body composition, physical fitness, cognitive function and general well-being in patients with NAFLD. Methods: In the present study, 7 men and 2 women with NAFLD (age: 45 +/- 8 y, BMI: 28.7 +/- 4.1kg.m(-2)) completed a 6-week control period followed by 6weeks of twice-weekly SIT sessions (5-10 x 6-s ''all-out' cycle sprints). Body composition, blood pressure, liver function, metabolic function, functional capacity, cognitive function and quality of life were assessed at baseline, following the control period, and following the SIT intervention. Results: Walking speed during the walk test (+12%), estimated VO(2)max (+8%), verbal fluency (+44%), and blood platelet count (+12%; all p < 0.05) significantly increased during the control period. These measures remained significantly raised compared to baseline following the SIT intervention, but did not significantly change any further compared to the post-control time-point. Diastolic blood pressure decreased from 87 +/- 10 to 77 +/- 8mm Hg from the end of the control period to the end of the SIT intervention (p < 0.05). Conclusion: This study does not support the use of 6weeks of a low volume SIT protocol involving twice-weekly sessions with 5-10 x 6-s ''all-out'' cycle sprints as an intervention for NAFLD disease management.		[MacLean, Catriona] Univ Bath, Dept Hlth, Bath, Avon, England; [Dillon, John] Univ Dundee, Ninewells Hosp & Med Sch, Sch Med, Dundee, Scotland; [Babraj, John A.] Abertay Univ, Sch Social & Hlth Sci, Dundee, Scotland; [Vollaard, Niels B. J.] Univ Stirling, Fac Hlth Sci & Sport, Stirling FK9 4LA, Scotland; [Vollaard, Niels B. J.] Univ Stirling, Fac Hlth Sci & Sport, Stirling FK9 4LA, Scotland								4							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000423678500015	55	Article; Article		
J	Van Tonder, Tarbie; Allison, Garry T.; Hopper, Diana; Grisbrook, Tiffany L.								Multidimensional impact of low-Dye taping on low-load hopping in individuals with and without plantar fasciitis								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				29				43	49		10.1016/j.ptsp.2017.11.001			JAN 2018	2018	Objectives: Evaluate the acute effect of low-Dye, placebo and no tape on motor behaviour in individuals with plantar fasciitis (PF). Design: Prospective, experimental. Setting: Motion analysis laboratory. Participants: Ten participants with PF and ten matched controls. Main outcome measures: Hopping behaviour (lower-limb stiffness and ankle angle at peak loading) were evaluated during low-load sleigh hopping, during three taping conditions. Stiffness and ankle angle were determined using three-dimensional motion analysis. Pain during submaximal loading was assessed with a numeric pain rating scale. Results: The lower-limb stiffness response to therapeutic taping was modulated by the presence of PF (interaction, F = 4.48, p = 0.018). Matched controls demonstrated a significant increase in stiffness post application of low-Dye taping (p = 0.001), stiffness was unchanged in the PF group. In the PF group, low Dye taping decreased hopping pain in comparison to placebo (p = 0.037) and no-tape (p = 0.024). There was no difference in ankle angle at peak loading between the groups or across taping conditions. Conclusions: Low-Dye taping reduces nociceptive inputs more than placebo in the presence of PF pain. Low-Dye tape alters stiffness in the control group but not the PF group. The motor behavioural outputs such as stiffness, during low-load hopping is modulated by both pathology and therapeutic taping. (C) 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Van Tonder, Tarbie; Allison, Garry T.; Hopper, Diana; Grisbrook, Tiffany L.] Curtin Univ, Sch Physiotherapy & Exercise Sci, Perth, WA 6845, Australia; [Grisbrook, Tiffany L.] Curtin Univ, Tiffany Grisbrook Sch Physiotherapy & Exercise Sc, GPO Box U1987, Perth, WA 6845, Australia								13							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000424722600007	50	Article; Article		
J	Hashish, Rami; Samarawickrame, Sachithra D.; Sigward, Susan; Azen, Stanley P.; Salem, George J.								Lower-limb dynamics and clinical outcomes for habitually shod runners who transition to barefoot running								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				29				93	100		10.1016/j.ptsp.2016.12.003			JAN 2018	2018	Objectives: Recent investigations have revealed lower vertical loading rates and knee energy absorption amongst experienced barefoot runners relative to those who rear-foot strike (RFS). Although this has led to an adoption of barefoot running amongst many recreational shoe runners, recent investigations indicate that the experienced barefoot pattern is not immediately realized. Therefore, the purpose this investigation was to quantify changes in lower-extremity dynamics and clinical outcomes measures for habitually shod runners who perform a transition to barefoot running. Design & Participants: We examined lower-extremity dynamics and clinical outcomes for 26 RFS shod runners who performed an 8-10 week transition to barefoot running. Setting: Runners were evaluated at the University of Southern California's Musculoskeletal Biomechanics Research Laboratory. Main Outcome Measures: Foot-strike patterns, vertical load rates, and joint energetics were evaluated before and after the transition using inverse dynamics. Clinical assessments were conducted throughout the transition by two licensed clinicians. Results: Eighteen of the 26 runners successfully completed the transition: 7 maintained a RFS, 8 adopted a mid-foot strike (MFS), and 3 adopted a forefoot strike (FFS) during novice barefoot running. Following the transition, novice MFS/FFS runners often demonstrated reversions in strike-patterns and associated reductions in ankle energetics. We report no change in loading rates and knee energy absorption across transition time points. Importantly, therewere no adverse events other than transient pain and soreness. Conclusions: These findings indicate that runners do not innately adopt the biomechanical characteristics thought to lower injury risk in-response to an uninstructed barefoot running transition. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Hashish, Rami; Samarawickrame, Sachithra D.; Sigward, Susan; Salem, George J.] Univ Southern Calif, Div Biokinesiol & Phys Therapy, 1540 Alcazar St, Los Angeles, CA 90033 USA; [Azen, Stanley P.] Univ Southern Calif, Div Prevent Med, 1540 Alcazar St, Los Angeles, CA 90033 USA; [Hashish, Rami] Univ Southern Calif, Div Biokinesiol & Phys Therapy, 1540 Alcazar St, Los Angeles, CA 90033 USA								2							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000424722600013	33	Article; Article		
J	Fanchini, Maurizio; Impellizzeri, Franco M.; Silbernagel, Karin Gravare; Combi, Franco; Benazzo, Franco; Bizzini, Mario								Return to competition after an Achilles tendon rupture using both on and off the field load monitoring as guidance: A case report of a top-level soccer player								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				29				70	78		10.1016/j.ptsp.2017.04.008			JAN 2018	2018	Objectives: To describe the Return to competition after Achilles Tendon rupture (ATR) in an elite soccer player. Design: Case report. Setting: Return to sport (RTS) of a professional soccer player who suffered an ATR during a match. The RTS phase started 15 weeks after surgery and specific on-field activities were gradually introduced. Criteria used to monitor the transition through the different phases were strength and endurance of the calf muscle and ability to sustain specific on-field training loads (TL) monitored with Global Positioning System and heart-rate system. TLs were weekly compared to pre-injury values to evaluate recovery and to prescribe future sessions. Participant: A 39-year-old (height 178 cm, weight 75 kg) elite soccer defender player, playing in Italian Serie-A league. Results: Days of absence were lower compared to a cohort presented in UEFA study (119 versus 161 +/- 65 days, respectively). External-D. and Internal-TL were organized to gradually increase during RTS and resulted in higher values prior to return to competition compared to pre-injury values. Concentric plantar flexion peak torque increased till 9th months after surgery. Conclusions: Monitoring of the field activities allowed comparison with pre-injury values and provided a useful and functional criteria to pass return to team activity and competition. (C) 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Fanchini, Maurizio] Univ Verona, Dept Neurosci Biomed & Movement Sci, Verona, Italy; [Fanchini, Maurizio; Combi, Franco] FC Int, Milan, Italy; [Impellizzeri, Franco M.] Schulthess Clin, Dept Res & Dev, Zurich, Switzerland; [Silbernagel, Karin Gravare] Univ Delaware, Dept Phys Therapy, Newark, DE USA; [Benazzo, Franco] Univ Pavia, Fdn IRCCS Policlin San Matteo, Orthopaed Clin, Pavia, Italy; [Bizzini, Mario] Schulthess Clin, FIFA Med Assessment & Res Ctr, Zurich, Switzerland; [Fanchini, Maurizio] Univ Verona, Fac Exercise & Sport Sci, Via Felice Casorati, Verona, Italy								16							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000424722600010	42	Article; Article		
J	Willy, Richard W.								Innovations and pitfalls in the use of wearable devices in the prevention and rehabilitation of running related injuries								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				29				26	33		10.1016/j.ptsp.2017.10.003			JAN 2018	2018	Running-related injuries are common and are associated with a high rate of reoccurrence. Biomechanics and errors in applied training loads are often cited as causes of running-related injuries. Clinicians and runners are beginning to utilize wearable technologies to quantify biomechanics and training loads with the hope of reducing the incidence of running-related injuries. Wearable devices can objectively assess biomechanics and training loads in runners, yet guidelines for their use by clinicians and runners are not currently available. This article outlines several applications for the use of wearable devices in the prevention and rehabilitation of running-related injuries. Applications for monitoring of training loads, running biomechanics, running epidemiology, return to running programs and gait retraining are discussed. Best-practices for choosing and use of wearables are described to provide guidelines for clinicians and runners. Finally, future applications are outlined for this rapidly developing field. (C) 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Willy, Richard W.] Univ Montana, Sch Phys Therapy & Rehabil Sci, Missoula, MT 59812 USA; [Willy, Richard W.] Univ Montana, Sch Phys Therapy & Rehabil Sci, Coll Hlth Profess & Biomed Sci, 32 Campus Dr,Skaggs Bldg 108, Missoula, MT 59812 USA								102							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000424722600005	58	Article; Article		
J	Martinez, Bruna Reclusa; Sauers, Andrea D. Lopes; Ferreira, Cintia Lopes; Lugli, Luciana de Castro; Gama Turchetto, Paola Christina; Docherty, Carrie L.; Yi, Liu Chiao								Translation, cross-cultural adaptation, and measurement properties of the Brazilian version of the Identification of Functional Ankle Instability (IdFAI) questionnaire								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				29				1	8		10.1016/j.ptsp.2017.09.004			JAN 2018	2018	Objectives: The aim of this research was to describe the translation and cultural adaptation, and to test the validity and reliability of the Brazilian version of the Identification of Functional Ankle Instability (IdFAI) questionnaire. Design: This was a clinical measurement. Setting: This research took place at the Federal University of Sao Paulo in Brazil. Participants: Fifty college students participated in the translation and cultural adaptation, while another 50 students participated in the measurements (validity and reliability). Main outcome measures: The cross-cultural adaptation of the Brazilian IdFAI was accomplished using standard guidelines. For the validity and reliability, the individuals were asked to complete the IdFAI tests on the same day, and after two weeks maximum. The validity was assessed by correlating the Brazilian IdFAI with the Visual Analog Scale for Instability (VAS-I), the Cumberland Ankle Instability Tool (CAIT), and the Lower Extremity Functional Scale (LEFS) using Spearman's correlation coefficient. The test-retest reliability and internal consistency were determined by using an intraclass correlation (ICC2,1) and Cronbach's alpha, respectively. The agreement [standard error of measurement (SEM) and minimal detectable change at 90% (MDC90)] and the floor and ceiling effects were also assessed. Results: The Brazilian IdFAI had strong correlation with the CAIT and moderate correlations with the VAS-I and LEFS scale, with excellent reliability, internal consistency and agreement. No ceiling or floor effects were observed. Conclusion: The Brazilian IdFAI questionnaire is a valid and reliable instrument to identify functional ankle instability. It can be used in both clinical and research settings. (C) 2017 Published by Elsevier Ltd.		[Martinez, Bruna Reclusa; Ferreira, Cintia Lopes; Gama Turchetto, Paola Christina; Yi, Liu Chiao] Univ Fed Sao Paulo, Dept Human Movement Sci, Santos, SP, Brazil; [Sauers, Andrea D. Lopes] AT Still Univ, Res Support, Mesa, AZ USA; [Lugli, Luciana de Castro] Ctr Univ Fac Metropolitanas Unidas, Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil; [Docherty, Carrie L.] Indiana Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Bloomington, IN 47405 USA; [Yi, Liu Chiao] Univ Fed Sao Paulo, Dept Human Movement Sci, Rua Silva Jardim 136, BR-11015020 Sao Paulo, Brazil								17							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000424722600001	27	Article; Article		
J	Creveaux, Thomas; Sevrez, Violaine; Dumas, Raphael; Cheze, Laurence; Rogowski, Isabelle								Rotation sequence to report humerothoracic kinematics during 3D motion involving large horizontal component: application to the tennis forehand drive								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				17	1			131	141		10.1080/14763141.2016.1260765			2018	2018	The aim of this study was to examine the respective aptitudes of three rotation sequences (YtXfYh, Z(t)X(f)Y(h), and X(t)Z(f)Y(h)) to effectively describe the orientation of the humerus relative to the thorax during a movement involving a large horizontal abduction/adduction component: the tennis forehand drive. An optoelectronic system was used to record the movements of eight elite male players, each performing ten forehand drives. The occurrences of gimbal lock, phase angle discontinuity and incoherency in the time course of the three angles defining humerothoracic rotation were examined for each rotation sequence. Our results demonstrated that no single sequence effectively describes humerothoracic motion without discontinuities throughout the forehand motion. The humerothoracic joint angles can nevertheless be described without singularities when considering the backswing/forward-swing and the follow-through phases separately. Our findings stress that the sequence choice may have implications for the report and interpretation of 3D joint kinematics during large shoulder range of motion. Consequently, the use of Euler/Cardan angles to represent 3D orientation of the humerothoracic joint in sport tasks requires the evaluation of the rotation sequence regarding singularity occurrence before analysing the kinematic data, especially when the task involves a large shoulder range of motion in the horizontal plane.		[Creveaux, Thomas; Sevrez, Violaine; Dumas, Raphael; Cheze, Laurence; Rogowski, Isabelle] Univ Lyon, Lyon, France; [Creveaux, Thomas; Sevrez, Violaine; Dumas, Raphael; Cheze, Laurence; Rogowski, Isabelle] Univ Claude Bernard Lyon 1, Lyon, France; [Creveaux, Thomas; Sevrez, Violaine; Rogowski, Isabelle] Ctr Rech & Innovat Sport, Villeurbanne, France; [Dumas, Raphael; Cheze, Laurence] IFSTTAR, Lab Biomecan & Mecan Chocs, Villeurbanne, France; [Rogowski, Isabelle] Univ Lyon, Lyon, France; [Rogowski, Isabelle] Univ Claude Bernard Lyon 1, Lyon, France; [Rogowski, Isabelle] Ctr Rech & Innovat Sport, Villeurbanne, France								8							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000423880500009	28	Article; Article		
J	Carter, Sarah L.; Sato, Nahoko; Hopper, Luke S.								Kinematic repeatability of a multi-segment foot model for dance								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				17	1			48	66		10.1080/14763141.2017.1343864			2018	2018	The purpose of this study was to determine the intra and inter-assessor repeatability of a modified Rizzoli Foot Model for analysing the foot kinematics of ballet dancers. Six university-level ballet dancers performed the movements; parallel stance, turnout plie, turnout stance, turnout rise and flex-point-flex. The three-dimensional (3D) position of individual reflective markers and marker triads was used to model the movement of the dancers' tibia, entire foot, hindfoot, midfoot, forefoot and hallux. Intra and inter-assessor reliability demonstrated excellent (ICC >= 0.75) repeatability for the first metatarsophalangeal joint in the sagittal plane. Intra-assessor reliability demonstrated excellent (ICC >= 0.75) repeatability during flex-point-flex across all inter-segmental angles except for the tibia-hindfoot and hindfoot-midfoot frontal planes. Inter-assessor repeatability ranged from poor to excellent (0.5 > ICC >= 0.75) for the 3D segment rotations. The most repeatable measure was the tibia-foot dorsiflexion/plantar flexion articulation whereas the least repeatable measure was the hindfoot-midfoot adduction/abduction articulation. The variation found in the inter-assessor results is likely due to inconsistencies in marker placement. This 3D dance specific multi-segment foot model provides insight into which kinematic measures can be reliably used to ascertain in vivo technical errors and/or biomechanical abnormalities in a dancer's foot motion.		[Carter, Sarah L.] Univ Western Australia, Sch Allied Hlth, Fac Hlth & Med Sci, Podiatr Med & Surg Div, Perth, WA, Australia; [Carter, Sarah L.; Hopper, Luke S.] Edith Cowan Univ, Western Australian Acad Performing Arts, Perth, WA, Australia; [Sato, Nahoko] Nagoya Gakuin Univ, Fac Rehabil Sci, Dept Phys Therapy, Seto, Aichi, Japan; [Carter, Sarah L.] Univ Western Australia, Sch Allied Hlth, Podiatr Med & Surg Div M422, 35 Stirling Highway, Crawley, WA 6009, Australia								12							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000423880500004	41	Article; Article		
J	Chen, Wei-Han; Liu, Ya-Chen; Tai, Hsing-Hao; Liu, Chiang								Resistance characteristics of innovative eco-fitness equipment: a water buoyancy muscular machine								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				17	1			98	116		10.1080/14763141.2017.1357746			2018	2018	This paper propose innovative eco-fitness equipmenta water buoyancy muscular machine (WBM machine) in which resistance is generated by buoyancy and fluid resistance. The resistance characteristics during resistance adjustment and under isometric, concentric, eccentric and isokinetic conditions were investigated and compared to a conventional machine with metal weight plates. The results indicated that the isometric, concentric and eccentric resistances could be adjusted by varying the water volume; the maximum resistances under isometric, concentric and eccentric conditions were 163.8, 338.5 and 140.9N, respectively. The isometric resistances at different positions remained constant in both machines; however the isometric resistance was lower for WBM machine when at a position corresponding to a 5% total displacement. The WBM machine has lower resistance under eccentric conditions and higher resistance under concentric conditions. Although the conventional machine has an identical trend, the variation was minor (within 4N). In the WBM machine, the eccentric resistance was approximately 30-45% of the concentric resistance. Concentric resistances increased with an increase in velocity in both machines; however, the eccentric resistances decreased with an increase in velocity. In summary, the WBM machine, a piece of innovative eco-fitness equipment, has unique resistance characteristics and expansibility.		[Chen, Wei-Han] Natl Taiwan Normal Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Taipei, Taiwan; [Chen, Wei-Han; Liu, Chiang] Univ Taipei, Grad Inst Sports Equipment Technol, Taipei, Taiwan; [Liu, Ya-Chen] Chung Hua Univ, Off Phys Educ, Hsinchu, Taiwan; [Tai, Hsing-Hao] Chien Hsin Univ Sci & Technol, Off Phys Educ, Taoyuan, Taiwan; [Liu, Chiang] Univ Taipei, Grad Inst Sports Equipment Technol, Taipei, Taiwan								3							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000423880500007	46	Article; Article		
J	Borghesi, Richard								The Financial and Competitive Value of NCAA Basketball Recruits								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				19	1			31	49		10.1177/1527002515617510			JAN 2018	2018	In this article, we examine the value of high school basketball prospects, and results indicate that each five-star (four-star) recruit generates US$625,000 (US$178,000) in marginal revenue for his university. Additionally, university academic donations are strongly related to basketball performance and five-star recruits bring in an additional US$5,800,000 in funding on average as a result of their contribution to team success. Calculations indicate that if five-star players were to be fairly compensated, their earnings would be approximately US$613,000. Four-star prospects would be paid roughly US$166,000, three-star recruits US$91,000, and two- and one-star players US$50,000.		[Borghesi, Richard] Univ South Florida Sarasota Manatee, Finance, Sarasota, FL USA; [Borghesi, Richard] Univ South Florida Sarasota Manatee, 8350 N Tamiami Trail, Sarasota, FL 34243 USA								9							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000416559100002	18	Article; Article		
J	Andrews, Rodney J.; Logan, Trevon D.; Sinkey, Michael J.								Identifying Confirmatory Bias in the Field: Evidence From a Poll of Experts								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				19	1			50	81		10.1177/1527002515617511			JAN 2018	2018	Laboratory experiments have established the existence of cognitive biases, but their explanatory power in real-world economic settings has been difficult to quantify. We evaluate the extent to which a cognitive bias, confirmatory bias, affects the opinions of experts in a real-world environment. In the Associated Press Top 25 College Football Poll, expert pollsters are tasked with assessing team quality, and their beliefs are treated week to week with game results that serve as signals about an individual team's quality. We exploit the variation provided by actual game results relative to market expectations to develop a novel regression-discontinuity approach to identify confirmatory bias. We construct a data set that matches more than 20 years of individual game characteristics to poll results and betting market information and show that teams that slightly exceed and barely miss market expectations are exchangeable. The likelihood of winning the game, the average number of points scored by teams and their opponents, and even the average week of the season are no different between teams that slightly exceed and barely miss market expectations. Pollsters, however, significantly upgrade their beliefs about a team's quality when a team slightly exceeds market expectations. The effects are sizableone fifth of the standard deviation in poll points in a given week can be attributed to confirmatory bias, which is equivalent to nearly half of the voters in the poll ranking a team one slot higher when they slightly exceed market expectations. This type of updating suggests that even when informed agents make repeated decisions, they may act in a manner consistent with confirmatory bias.		[Andrews, Rodney J.] Univ Texas Dallas, Sch Econ Polit & Policy Studies, Richardson, TX 75083 USA; [Andrews, Rodney J.] NBER, Richardson, TX USA; [Logan, Trevon D.] Ohio State Univ, Dept Econ, Columbus, OH 43210 USA; [Logan, Trevon D.] NBER, Columbus, OH USA; [Sinkey, Michael J.] Univ West Georgia, Richards Coll Business, Dept Econ, 1601 Maple St, Carrollton, GA 30118 USA; [Sinkey, Michael J.] Univ West Georgia, Richards Coll Business, Dept Econ, 1601 Maple St, Carrollton, GA 30118 USA								4							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000416559100003	35	Article; Article		
J	Wang, Chang; Goossens, Dries; Vandebroek, Martina								The Impact of the Soccer Schedule on TV Viewership and Stadium Attendance: Evidence From the Belgian Pro League								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				19	1			82	112		10.1177/1527002515612875			JAN 2018	2018	In the past decade, television (TV) broadcasters have been investing a huge amount of money for the Belgian Pro League broadcasting rights. These companies pursue an audience rating maximization, which depends heavily on the schedule of the league matches. At the same time, clubs try to maximize their home attendance and find themselves affected by the schedule as well. Our article aims to capture the Belgian soccer fans' preferences with respect to scheduling options, both for watching matches on TV and in the stadium. We carried out a discrete choice experiment using an online survey questionnaire distributed on a national scale. The choice sets are based on three match characteristics: month, kickoff time, and quality of the opponent. The first part of this survey concerns TV broadcasting aspects. The second part includes questions about stadium attendance. The choice data are first analyzed with a conditional logit model which assumes homogenous preferences. Then a mixed logit model is fit to model the heterogeneity among the fans. The estimates are used to calculate the expected utility of watching a Belgian Pro League match for every possible setting, either on TV or in the stadium. These predictions are validated in terms of the real audience rating and home attendance data. Our results can be used to improve the scheduling process of the Belgian Pro League in order to persuade more fans to watch the matches on TV or in a stadium.		[Wang, Chang; Vandebroek, Martina] Katholieke Univ Leuven, Fac Econ & Business, Naamsestr 69, B-3000 Leuven, Belgium; [Goossens, Dries] Univ Ghent, Fac Econ & Business Adm, Ghent, Belgium; [Vandebroek, Martina] Katholieke Univ Leuven, Leuven Stat Res Ctr, Leuven, Belgium; [Wang, Chang] Katholieke Univ Leuven, Fac Econ & Business, Naamsestr 69, B-3000 Leuven, Belgium								35							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000416559100004	27	Article; Article		
J	Simpson, Jeffrey D.; Miller, Brandon L.; O'Neal, Eric K.; Chander, Harish; Knight, Adam C.								External load training does not alter balance performance in well-trained women								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				17	3			336	349		10.1080/14763141.2017.1341546			2018	2018	This study investigated the influence of external load training (ELT) on static and dynamic balance. Nineteen females stratified into two groups (ELT=9, control=10) completed three testing sessions over 6 weeks. The ELT group wore weighted vests (WV) of similar to 8% body mass for 32 h/week during daily living and three training sessions/week for 3 weeks. Following completion of ELT, a 3 week detraining (DET) phase was completed. Bilateral and unilateral static balance were assessed with eyes open and closed. Dynamic balance was assessed using the star excursion balance test (SEBT). Static and dynamic balance variables were analysed using a 2 (group) x 3 (time) between participants repeated measures ANOVA (p<0.05). Results revealed significant reductions in average centre of pressure (COP) velocity in the control group on the non-dominant limb with eyes closed, and significantly greater reach distances in the ELT group on the SEBT for the posteromedial and medial directions on the dominant limb (p<0.05). These findings suggest the ELT group did not significantly improve their balance in comparison to the control group. However, future research should further examine this unique, supplemental training method and the impact on balance performance.		[Simpson, Jeffrey D.; Miller, Brandon L.; Chander, Harish; Knight, Adam C.] Mississippi State Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Mississippi State, MS 39759 USA; [O'Neal, Eric K.] Univ North Alabama, Dept Hlth Phys Educ & Recreat, Florence, AL USA; [Simpson, Jeffrey D.] Mississippi State Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Mississippi State, MS 39759 USA								9							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000439911900006	24	Article; Article		
J	Torres-Ronda, Lorena; Schelling, Xavi								Critical Process for the Implementation of Technology in Sport Organizations								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				39	6			54	59		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000339			DEC 2017	2017	The impact that technology has today and will have in the future in sport is unquestionable. We are constantly exposed to a multitude of new devices and products claimed to be "critical for performance success or injury prevention." This has led to a situation where sports organizations that are using or are considering the use of these tools can be, and are actually harassed by numerous promoters of the next "holy grail." This manuscript aims to provide a guideline to help organizations with the technology vetting process and on the implementation of technology.		[Torres-Ronda, Lorena; Schelling, Xavi] Univ Lleida, Natl Inst Phys Educ Catalonia INEFC, Complex Syst Sport Res Grp SGR, Lleida, Spain; [Torres-Ronda, Lorena] Victoria Univ, Inst Sport Exercise & Act Living, Coll Sport & Exercise Sci, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Torres-Ronda, Lorena] Univ Lleida, Natl Inst Phys Educ Catalonia INEFC, Complex Syst Sport Res Grp SGR, Lleida, Spain; [Torres-Ronda, Lorena] Victoria Univ, Inst Sport Exercise & Act Living, Coll Sport & Exercise Sci, Melbourne, Vic, Australia								29							Sport Sciences	WOS:000423295700005	16	Article; Article		
J	[Anonymous]								NSCA Strength and Conditioning Professional Standards and Guidelines								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				39	6			1	24		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000348			DEC 2017	2017	This is the updated version of the nsca strength and conditioning professional standards and guidelines. The last update was performed in 2009.										30							Sport Sciences	WOS:000423295700001	64	Article; Article		
J	Howe, Louis; Waldron, Mark; North, Jamie								Practical Approach to Problem-Solving Movement Tasks Limited by an Ankle Dorsiflexion Restriction								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				39	6			25	35		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000336			DEC 2017	2017	Limitations in ankle dorsiflexion range of motion have been shown to increase compensatory movements at both proximal and distal joint segments in the lower extremity. This article discusses methods to assess and correct deficiencies in ankle dorsiflexion range of motion. Previously, however, the removal of joint restrictions has not been shown to reduce compensatory strategies developed through such restrictions. Therefore, this article will also discuss important considerations for facilitating the relearning process and propose key principles for developing a corrective program.		[Howe, Louis] Univ Cumbria, Med & Sport Sci, Lancaster, England; [Waldron, Mark; North, Jamie] St Marys Univ, Sch Sport Hlth & Appl Sci, Twickenham, Middx, England; [Waldron, Mark] Univ New England, Sch Sci & Technol, Armidale, NSW, Australia; [Howe, Louis] Univ Cumbria, Med & Sport Sci, Lancaster, England								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:000423295700002	68	Article; Article		
J	McCurdy, Kevin								Technique, Variation, and Progression of the Rear-Foot-Elevated Split Squat								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				39	6			93	97		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000319			DEC 2017	2017	The rear-foot-elevated split squat is a multijoint exercise used to train the lower extremity musculature in all planes. The benefits include prevention of lower extremity injury, improved gait and sport performance, and increased muscle size and strength. With an anterior-posterior stance, the exercise is performed primarily unilaterally.		[McCurdy, Kevin] Texas State Univ, Dept Hlth & Human Performance, Exercise & Sport Sci, San Marcos, TX 78666 USA; [McCurdy, Kevin] Texas State Univ, Dept Hlth & Human Performance, Exercise & Sport Sci, San Marcos, TX 78666 USA								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:000423295700010	8	Article; Article		
J	Bernards, Jake; Blaisdell, Robert; Light, Thaddeus J.; Stone, Michael H.								Prescribing an Annual Plan for the Competitive Surf Athlete: Optimal Methods and Barriers to Implementation								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				39	6			36	45		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000335			DEC 2017	2017	As the sport of surfing continues to gain support, the need for a sound strength and conditioning program is paramount. With a season lasting upward of 8 months and traveling all over the world, programming for the sport of surfing quickly Becomes a challenge. Therefore, the aim of this article is to provide a brief introduction into the technical and physiological aspects of the sport before providing a detailed annual plan the strength coach or surf athlete can modify for their own use.		[Bernards, Jake; Blaisdell, Robert; Light, Thaddeus J.; Stone, Michael H.] East Tennessee State Univ, Dept Sport Exercise Recreat & Kinesiol, Ctr Excellence Sport Sci & Coach Educ, Johnson City, TN 37614 USA; [Bernards, Jake] East Tennessee State Univ, Dept Sport Exercise Recreat & Kinesiol, Ctr Excellence Sport Sci & Coach Educ, Johnson City, TN 37614 USA								6							Sport Sciences	WOS:000423295700003	43	Article; Article		
J	Howe, Louis P.; Waldron, Mark; Read, Paul								A Systems-Based Approach to Injury Prevention for the Strength and Conditioning Coach								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				39	6			60	69		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000346			DEC 2017	2017	Participation in sport exposes athletes to an inherent risk of injury. To develop a comprehensive injury prevention program, strength and conditioning coaches must conduct a thorough needs analysis to establish the risk of injury, identify mechanisms and risk factors for injury, select relevant screening tests, and design targeted interventions based on the athlete's results. Using a systems-based approach presented herein, this article provides an overview of the process that coaches must undertake to develop effective injury prevention programs.		[Howe, Louis P.] Univ Cumbria, Sports Rehabil, Lancaster, England; [Waldron, Mark] St Marys Univ, Exercise Physiol, Twickenham, Middx, England; [Waldron, Mark] Univ New England, Sch Sci & Technol, Armidale, NSW, Australia; [Read, Paul] Aspetar Orthopaed & Sports Med Hosp, Athlete Hlth & Performance Res Ctr, Doha, Qatar; [Howe, Louis P.] Univ Cumbria, Sports Rehabil, Lancaster, England								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:000423295700006	81	Article; Article		
J	Monajati, Alireza; Larumbe-Zabala, Eneko; Goss-Sampson, Mark; Naclerio, Fernando								Analysis of the Hamstring Muscle Activation During two Injury Prevention Exercises								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				60	1			29	37		10.1515/hukin-2017-0105			DEC 2017	2017	The aim of this study was to perform an electromyographic and kinetic comparison of two commonly used hamstring eccentric strengthening exercises: Nordic Curl and Ball Leg Curl. After determining the maximum isometric voluntary contraction of the knee flexors, ten female athletes performed 3 repetitions of both the Nordic Curl and Ball Leg Curl, while knee angular displacement and electromyografic activity of the biceps femoris and semitendinosus were monitored. No significant differences were found between biceps femoris and semitendinosus activation in both the Nordic Curl and Ball Leg Curl. However, comparisons between exercises revealed higher activation of both the biceps femoris (74.8 +/- 20 vs 50.3 +/- 25.7%, p = 0.03 d = 0.53) and semitendinosus (78.3 +/- 27.5 vs 44.3 +/- 26.6%, p = 0.012, d = 0.63) at the closest knee angles in the Nordic Curl vs Ball Leg Curl, respectively. Hamstring muscles activation during the Nordic Curl increased, remained high (>70%) between 60 to 40 degrees of the knee angle and then decreased to 27% of the maximal isometric voluntary contraction at the end of movement. Overall, the biceps femoris and semitendinosus showed similar patterns of activation. In conclusion, even though the hamstring muscle activation at open knee positions was similar between exercises, the Nordic Curl elicited a higher hamstring activity compared to the Ball Leg Curl.		[Monajati, Alireza; Goss-Sampson, Mark; Naclerio, Fernando] Univ Greenwich, Dept Life & Sports Sci, Medway Campus, Kent, England; [Larumbe-Zabala, Eneko] Texas Tech Univ, Hlth Sci Ctr, Clin Res Inst, Lubbock, TX 79430 USA; [Naclerio, Fernando] Univ Greenwich, Ctr Sci & Med Sport & Exercise, Medway Campus Cent Ave, Kent ME4 4TB, England								21							Sport Sciences	WOS:000418922200004	26	Article; Article		
J	Lockie, Robert G.; Callaghan, Samuel J.; Moreno, Matthew R.; Risso, Fabrice G.; Liu, Tricia M.; Stage, Alyssa A.; Birmingham-Babauta, Samantha A.; Stokes, John J.; Giuliano, Dominic V.; Lazar, Adrina; Davis, DeShaun L.; Orjalo, Ashley J.								Relationships between Mechanical Variables in the Traditional and Close-Grip Bench Press								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				60	1			19	28		10.1515/hukin-2017-0109			DEC 2017	2017	The study aim was to determine relationships between mechanical variables in the one-repetition maximum (1RM) traditional bench press (TBP) and close-grip bench press (CGBP). Twenty resistance-trained men completed a TBP and CGBP 1RM. The TBP was performed with the preferred grip; the CGBP with a grip width of 95% biacromial distance. A linear position transducer measured: lift distance and duration; work; and peak and mean power, velocity, and force. Paired samples t-tests (p < 0.05) compared the 1RM and mechanical variables for the TBP and CGBP; effect sizes (d) were also calculated. Pearson's correlations (r; p < 0.05) computed relationships between the TBP and CGBP. 1RM, lift duration, and mean force were greater in the TBP (d = 0.30-3.20). Peak power and velocity was greater for the CGBP (d = 0.50-1.29). The 1RM TBP correlated with CGBP 1RM, power, and force (r = 0.685-0.982). TBP work correlated with CGBP 1RM, lift distance, power, force, and work (r = 0.542-0.931). TBP power correlated with CGBP 1RM, power, force, velocity, and work (r = 0.484-0.704). TBP peak and mean force related to CGBP 1RM, power, and force (r = 0.596-0.980). Due to relationships between the load, work, power, and force for the TBP and CGBP, the CGBP could provide similar strength adaptations to the TBP with long-term use. The velocity profile for the CGBP was different to that of the TBP. The CGBP could be used specifically to improve high-velocity, upper-body pushing movements.		[Lockie, Robert G.; Orjalo, Ashley J.] Calif State Univ Fullerton, Dept Kinesiol, 800 N State Coll Blvd, Fullerton, CA 92831 USA; [Callaghan, Samuel J.] Edith Cowan Univ, Sch Exercise & Hlth Sci, Ctr Exercise & Sport Sci, Joondalup, Australia; [Moreno, Matthew R.; Risso, Fabrice G.; Liu, Tricia M.; Stage, Alyssa A.; Birmingham-Babauta, Samantha A.; Stokes, John J.; Giuliano, Dominic V.; Lazar, Adrina; Davis, DeShaun L.] Calif State Univ Northridge, Dept Kinesiol, Northridge, CA 91330 USA; [Lockie, Robert G.] Calif State Univ Fullerton, Dept Kinesiol, 800 N State Coll Blvd, Fullerton, CA 92831 USA								10							Sport Sciences	WOS:000418922200003	32	Article; Article		
J	Arslan, Ersan; Alemdaroglu, Utku; Koklu, Yusuf; Hazir, Tahir; Muniroglu, Surhat; Karakoc, Baris								Effects of Passive and Active Rest on Physiological Responses and Time Motion Characteristics in Different Small Sided Soccer Games								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				60	1			123	132		10.1515/hukin-2017-0095			DEC 2017	2017	The purpose of this study was to investigate the effects of resting regimes on physiological responses and time motion characteristics between bouts during small sided games (SSGs) in young soccer players. Sixteen players (average age 16.87 +/- 0.34 years; body height 176.69 +/- 3.21 cm; body mass 62.40 +/- 2.59 kg; training experience 3.75 +/- 0.44 years) performed four bouts 2-a-side, 3-a-side and 4-a-side games with three minutes active (SSGar: Running at 70% of HRmax) and passive (SSGpr) rest between bouts at two-day intervals. The heart rate (HR) along with total distance covered in different speed zones -walking (W, 0-6.9 km.h-1), low-intensity running (LIR, 7.0-12.9 km.h-1), moderate-intensity running (MIR, 13.0-17.9 km.h-1) and high-intensity running (HIR, >18km.h-1), were monitored during all SSGs, whereas the rating of perceived exertion (RPE, CR-20) and venous blood lactate (La-) were determined at the end of the last bout of each SSG. The results demonstrated that all SSGpr elicited significantly higher physiological responses compared to SSGar in terms of the RPE and La-(p < 0.05). In addition, 2-a-side SSGpr induced significantly lower % HRmax responses and total distance covered than 2-a-side SSGar (p < 0.05). Moreover, the distance covered at HIR was significantly higher in 4-a-side SSGar than 4-side SSGpr. The results of this study indicate that both SSGs with passive and active rest can be used for soccer specific aerobic endurance training. Furthermore, all SSGs with active recovery should be performed in order to increase players and teams' performance capacity for subsequent bouts.		[Arslan, Ersan] Siirt Univ, Dept Sch Phys Educ & Sports, Siirt, Turkey; [Alemdaroglu, Utku; Koklu, Yusuf] Pamukkale Univ, Dept Fac Sport Sci, Denizli, Turkey; [Hazir, Tahir] Hacettepe Univ, Dept Fac Sport Sci, Ankara, Turkey; [Muniroglu, Surhat] Ankara Univ, Dept Fac Sport Sci, Ankara, Turkey; [Arslan, Ersan] Siirt Univ, Dept Sch Phys Educ & Sports, Siirt, Turkey								32							Sport Sciences	WOS:000418922200013	49	Article; Article		
J	Leandro, Catarina; Avila-Carvalho, Lurdes; Sierra-Palmeiro, Elena; Bobo-Arce, Marta								Judging in Rhythmic Gymnastics at Different Levels of Performance								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				60	1			159	165		10.1515/hukin-2017-0099			DEC 2017	2017	This study aimed to analyse the quality of difficulty judging in rhythmic gymnastics, at different levels of performance. The sample consisted of 1152 difficulty scores concerning 288 individual routines, performed in the World Championships in 2013. The data were analysed using the mean absolute judge deviation from the final difficulty score, a Cronbach's alpha coefficient and intra-class correlations, for consistency and reliability assessment. For validity assessment, mean deviations of judges' difficulty scores, the Kendall's coefficient of concordance W and ANOVA eta-squared values were calculated. Overall, the results in terms of consistency (Cronbach's alpha mostly above 0.90) and reliability (intra-class correlations for single and average measures above 0.70 and 0.90, respectively) were satisfactory, in the first and third parts of the ranking on all apparatus. The medium level gymnasts, those in the second part of the ranking, had inferior reliability indices and highest score dispersion. In this part, the minimum of corrected item-total correlation of individual judges was 0.55, with most values well below, and the matrix for between-judge correlations identified remarkable inferior correlations. These findings suggest that the quality of difficulty judging in rhythmic gymnastics may be compromised at certain levels of performance. In future, special attention should be paid to the judging analysis of the medium level gymnasts, as well as the Code of Points applicability at this level.		[Leandro, Catarina] Univ Lusofona Porto, Fac Psychol Educ & Sport, Rua Augusto Rosa 24, P-4000098 Oporto, Portugal; [Avila-Carvalho, Lurdes] Univ Porto, Sports Fac, Oporto, Portugal; [Leandro, Catarina; Sierra-Palmeiro, Elena; Bobo-Arce, Marta] Univ A Coruna, Fac Sport Sci & Phys Educ, La Coruna, Galicia, Spain; [Leandro, Catarina] Univ Lusofona Porto, Fac Psychol Educ & Sport, Rua Augusto Rosa 24, P-4000098 Oporto, Portugal								20							Sport Sciences	WOS:000418922200017	18	Article; Article		
J	Maciejewska, Dominika; Michalczyk, Malgorzata; Czerwinska-Rogowska, Maja; Banaszczak, Marcin; Ryterska, Karina; Jakubczyk, Karolina; Piotrwski, Jakub; Holowko, Joanna; Drozd, Arleta; Wysokinki, Pawel; Ficek, Krzysztof; Wilk, Krzysztof; Lubkowska, Anna; Cieszczyk, Pawel; Bertrand, Jerzy; Stachowska, Ewa								Seeking Optimal Nutrition for Healthy Body Mass Reduction Among Former Athletes								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				60	1			63	75		10.1515/hukin-2017-0090			DEC 2017	2017	The aim of the study was to investigate the efficacy of 6 week Mediterranean diet or 30% calorie restriction on the fatty acid profile and eicosanoids (hydroxyoctadecadienoi acids and hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acids) concentration. Furthermore, basic biochemical variables such as insulin, glucose, HOMA-IR, and a lipid profile were estimated. The study enrolled 94 Caucasian former athletes aged 20-42, with body height of 179 +/- 16.00 cm and body mass of 89.26 +/- 13.25 kg who had not been active for at least 5 years. The subjects were randomly assigned to one of the three intervention groups: CR group - the 30% calorie restriction (n = 32), MD group - the Mediterranean diet (n = 34), and C group - a control group (n = 28). The pattern of nutrition was analysed before and after the experiment using the 72 h food diaries. In order to evaluate the effect of diet intervention, the following variables were measured: anthropometrics, basic biochemical variables (insulin, fasting glucose, HOMA-IR, lipid profile), fatty acids and their blood derivatives profiles. The CR group showed significantly lower levels of several biochemical variables, i.e., BMI, total cholesterol LDL, TG, total lipids, insulin and HOMA - IR (p < 0.05). Subjects consuming the MD diet significantly decreased their BMI and reduced the level of total lipids (p < 0.05). We did not find any significant changes in the C group. The analysis of the fatty acid profile revealed that the CR group had a significantly decreased EPA level (p < 0.05). The MD group showed a significantly increased level of the DHA (p < 0.05) and improvement in the omega - 3 index (p < 0.05). Subjects following the MD also showed significantly lower concentrations of 15 - hydroxyicosatetraenoic acid (15-HETE). We did not observe any significant differences between the CR and C groups. Within short time, calorie restriction helps to improve lipid variables and insulin resistance. The MD diet seems to be more advantageous in the decrease of inflammation, but does not improve basic biochemical variables. We can conclude that calorie restriction can be a good choice for former athletes, although EPA and DHA supplementation is needed.		[Maciejewska, Dominika; Czerwinska-Rogowska, Maja; Banaszczak, Marcin; Ryterska, Karina; Jakubczyk, Karolina; Piotrwski, Jakub; Holowko, Joanna; Drozd, Arleta; Stachowska, Ewa] Pomeranian Med Univ, Dept Biochem & Human Nutr, Szczecin, Poland; [Michalczyk, Malgorzata] Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Dept Sports Nutr, Katowice, Poland; [Wysokinki, Pawel] Pomeranian Med Univ, Med Educ Unit, Szczecin, Poland; [Ficek, Krzysztof] Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Dept Med & Sport Physiote, Katowice, Poland; [Wilk, Krzysztof] Univ Szczecin, Fac Phys Culture & Hlth Promot, Szczecin, Poland; [Lubkowska, Anna] Pomeranian Med Univ, Dept Funct Diagnost & Phys Med, Szczecin, Poland; [Cieszczyk, Pawel] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, Dept Phys Educ, Gdansk, Poland; [Bertrand, Jerzy] Mil Inst Hyg & Epidemiol, Dept Hyg & Physiol, Warsaw, Poland; [Stachowska, Ewa] Pomeranian Med Univ, Dept Biochem & Human Nutr, Szczecin, Poland								13							Sport Sciences	WOS:000418922200007	40	Article; Article		
J	Czech, Szymon; Hermanson, Jacek; Rodak, Piotr; Stoltny, Tomasz; Rodak, Lukasz; Kasperczyk, Slawomir; Koczy, Bogdan; Mielnik, Michal								Sports Activity Following Cementless Metaphyseal Hip Joint Arthroplasty								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				60	1			225	232		10.1515/hukin-2017-0112			DEC 2017	2017	An adequate level of physical activity has a substantial effect on both mental and physical human health. Physical activity is largely dependent on the function of the musculoskeletal and articular system. One of the most frequent diseases of this system is degenerative joint disease. Due to the changing and more demanding lifestyles and patients' willingness to be involved in sports activity, the expectations of hip joint arthroplasty are becoming increasingly high. Alleviating pain ceases to be the only reason for which patients choose surgical interventions, while the expectations often include involvement in various sports. Only few studies contain recommendations concerning the frequency, type and intensity of sports activity which are acceptable after hip joint arthroplasty. The aim of the study was to evaluate function and physical activity of people following cementless short-stem hip joint arthroplasty in the observation of at least five years. The study group comprised 106 patients who underwent total hip arthroplasty due to degenerative joint diseases, chosen according to inclusion criteria. Patients underwent routine physical examinations following the Harris Hip Score protocol, responded to the UCLA scale and questionnaires concerning pre-surgical and current physical activity. Our results demonstrated that hip joint arthroplasty in people suffering from degenerative joint diseases has a beneficial effect on their level of functioning and physical activity. Although physical activity and the level of functioning obviously reduced as a person aged, the level of physical activity continued to be very high in both groups, with function of the hip joint evaluated as very good.		[Czech, Szymon; Hermanson, Jacek; Stoltny, Tomasz; Rodak, Lukasz; Koczy, Bogdan; Mielnik, Michal] Dist Hosp Trauma & Orthopaed, Piekary Slaskie, Poland; [Kasperczyk, Slawomir] Med Univ Silesia, Sect Gen Biochem, Dept Biochem, Zabrze, Poland; [Rodak, Piotr] Acad Phys Educ, Dept Kinesitherapy & Special Methods Physiotherap, Katowice, Poland; [Czech, Szymon] Dist Hosp Trauma & Orthopaed Piekary Slaskie, Bytomska 62 Str, PL-41940 Piekary Slaskie, Poland								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:000418922200024	25	Article; Article		
J	Nowak, Robert; Buryta, Rafal; Krupecki, Krzysztof; Zajac, Tomasz; Zawartka, Marek; Proia, Patrizia; Kostrzewa-Nowak, Dorota								The Impact of the Progressive Efficiency Test on a Rowing Ergometer on White Blood Cells Distribution and Clinical Chemistry Changes in Paralympic Rowers During the Preparatory Stage Before the Paralympic Games in Rio, 2016-A Case Report								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				60	1			255	263		10.1515/hukin-2017-0141			DEC 2017	2017	There is a large gap in knowledge regarding research on post-exercise blood changes in disabled athletes. There are relatively few data on adaptive mechanisms to exercise in disabled athletes, including disabled rowers. Two rowers from a Polish adaptive rowing settle TAMix2x that qualified for the Paralympic Games in Rio, 2016 took part in this study. They performed a progressive test on a rowing ergometer until exhaustion. The cardiorespiratory fitness measures, complete blood count, white blood cells' distribution and 30 clinical chemistry variables describing laboratory diagnostic profiles and general health were determined. The extreme effort induced changes in all studied metabolites ( glucose, creatinine, urea, uric acid, total and direct bilirubin), albumin, total protein levels in both participants. Furthermore, a post-exercise increase in aspartate transaminase activity, yet a 2-fold decrease during the recovery time in both rowers were found. White blood cell count increased 2-fold after the test. The percentages of natural killer cells were higher and total T lymphocytes were lower after the exercise protocol. There were higher percentages of suppressor/cytotoxic and lower percentages of helper/inducer T lymphocyte subsets in both studied rowers. No changes in B lymphocytes distribution were observed. Lack of inflammatory symptoms during the experiment suggests a high level of rowers' biological adaptation to the physical effort. The different changes in physiological, biochemical and immunological variables are related to the adaptive mechanism to physical exercise allowing for improvement of performance.		[Nowak, Robert; Buryta, Rafal; Krupecki, Krzysztof; Kostrzewa-Nowak, Dorota] Univ Szczecin, Fac Phys Educ & Hlth Promot, Szczecin, Poland; [Nowak, Robert; Buryta, Rafal; Kostrzewa-Nowak, Dorota] Univ Szczecin, Fac Phys Educ & Hlth Promot, Ctr Human Struct & Funct Res, Szczecin, Poland; [Zajac, Tomasz] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Human Performance Lab, Katowice, Poland; [Zawartka, Marek] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Dept Theory & Practice Sport, Katowice, Poland; [Proia, Patrizia] Univ Palermo, Dept Psychol Pedag & Educ Sci, Sport & Exercise Sci Res Unit, Palermo, Italy; [Kostrzewa-Nowak, Dorota] Fac Phys Educ & Hlth Promot, Ctr Human Struct & Funct Res, 17C Narutowicza St, PL-70240 Szczecin, Poland								10							Sport Sciences	WOS:000418922200027	22	Article; Article		
J	Park, Jihong; Seeley, Matthew K.; Francom, Devin; Reese, C. Shane; Hopkins, J. Ty								Functional vs. Traditional Analysis in Biomechanical Gait Data: An Alternative Statistical Approach								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				60	1			39	49		10.1515/hukin-2017-0114			DEC 2017	2017	In human motion studies, discrete points such as peak or average kinematic values are commonly selected to test hypotheses. The purpose of this study was to describe a functional data analysis and describe the advantages of using functional data analyses when compared with a traditional analysis of variance (ANOVA) approach. Nineteen healthy participants (age: 22 +/- 2 yrs, body height: 1.7 +/- 0.1 m, body mass: 73 +/- 16 kg) walked under two different conditions: control and pain+effusion. Pain+effusion was induced by injection of sterile saline into the joint capsule and hypertonic saline into the infrapatellar fat pad. Sagittal-plane ankle, knee, and hip joint kinematics were recorded and compared following injections using 2x2 mixed model ANOVAs and FANOVAs. The results of ANOVAs detected a condition x time interaction for the peak ankle (F1,18 = 8.56, p = 0.01) and hip joint angle (F1,18 = 5.77, p = 0.03), but did not for the knee joint angle (F1,18 = 0.36, p = 0.56). The functional data analysis, however, found several differences at initial contact (ankle and knee joint), in the mid-stance (each joint) and at toe off (ankle). Although a traditional ANOVA is often appropriate for discrete or summary data, in biomechanical applications, the functional data analysis could be a beneficial alternative. When using the functional data analysis approach, a researcher can (1) evaluate the entire data as a function, and (2) detect the location and magnitude of differences within the evaluated function.		[Park, Jihong] Kyung Hee Univ, Dept Sports Med, Yongin, Gyeonggi, South Korea; [Seeley, Matthew K.; Hopkins, J. Ty] Brigham Young Univ, Dept Exercise Sci, Provo, UT 84602 USA; [Francom, Devin] Los Alamos Natl Lab, Los Alamos, NM USA; [Reese, C. Shane] Brigham Young Univ, Dept Stat, Provo, UT 84602 USA; [Park, Jihong] Kyung Hee Univ, Dept Sports Med, Yongin, Gyeonggi, South Korea; [Park, Jihong] Kyung Hee Univ, Dept Sports Med, Athlet Training Lab, Seoul, South Korea								49							Sport Sciences	WOS:000418922200005	20	Article; Article		
J	Keshavarz, Mohammad; Bayati, Mahdi; Farzad, Babak; Dakhili, Amirbahador; Agha-Alinejad, Hamid								The Second to Fourth Digit Ratio in Elite and Non-Elite Greco-Roman Wrestlers								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				60	1			145	151		10.1515/hukin-2017-0097			DEC 2017	2017	A low second-to-fourth digit ratio (2D:4D) has been reported to correlate with high performance and athletic potential of an individual in sport. It has been suggested that 2D: 4D is a relatively weak predictor of strength and a stronger predictor of efficiency in aerobic exercise. Comparing extreme groups on a continuum of sports performance requiring high power (physical strength) output would be helpful to resolve this issue. Therefore, the purpose of the present study was to compare the 2D: 4D ratio of world-class elite Greco-Roman wrestlers (n = 10) taking part in Olympic fitness camps in 2013 with the 2D: 4D ratio of non-elite collegiate wrestlers (n = 20), and age-matched sedentary males (n = 40). The 2D: 4D ratios of elite wrestlers were lower compared to non-elite athletes (p < 0.01, right hand d = 1.70, left hand d = 1.67) and the control group (p < 0.0001, right hand d = 3.16, left hand d = 2.00). No significant differences were noted among the groups for right - left 2D: 4D. We concluded that 2D: 4D may discriminate between non-elite and world-class wrestlers. We also suggest that a low 2D: 4D ratio could be linked to performance potential in wrestlers. As such, 2D: 4D may provide additional information, which is valuable in determining the potential athleticism of an individual, when it is used in conjunction with other measures.		[Keshavarz, Mohammad; Dakhili, Amirbahador; Agha-Alinejad, Hamid] Tarbiat Modares Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Fac Humanities, Jalal AleAhmad Highway, Tehran, Iran; [Bayati, Mahdi] Sport Sci Res Inst, Dept Exercise Physiol, Sports Med Res Ctr, Tehran, Iran; [Farzad, Babak] Iran Univ Med Sci, Neurosci Res Ctr, Tehran, Iran; [Keshavarz, Mohammad] Tarbiat Modares Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Fac Humanities, Jalal AleAhmad Highway, Tehran, Iran								10							Sport Sciences	WOS:000418922200015	31	Article; Article		
J	Molik, Bartosz; Kosmol, Andrzej; Morgulec-Adamowicz, Natalia; Lencse-Mucha, Judit; Mroz, Anna; Gryko, Karol; Marszalek, Jolanta								Comparison of Aerobic Performance Testing Protocols in Elite Male Wheelchair Basketball Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				60	1			243	254		10.1515/hukin-2017-0140			DEC 2017	2017	In wheelchair sports, aerobic performance is commonly assessed with the use of an arm crank ergometer (ACE), a wheelchair ergometer (WCE) or a wheelchair treadmill (WCT). There are different protocols to identify peak oxygen uptake in wheelchair sports; however, only a few protocols have been applied to evaluate these conditions in wheelchair basketball players. The purpose of this study was to compare physiological responses during maximal exercise testing with the use of ACE and WCT in wheelchair basketball players. Twelve elite male wheelchair basketball players participated in this study. The research was performed during a training camp of the Polish National Wheelchair Basketball Team. The study participants were divided into two functional categories: A (players with class 1.0 - 2.5) and B (players with class 3.0 - 4.5). Two main maximal exercise tests, i.e. wheelchair treadmill stress test (WCT test) and arm crank ergometer stress test (ACE test) were used to evaluate aerobic performance of the players. There were no statistically significant differences in aerobic tests between the players from both groups. The comparison of results achieved in two aerobic tests performed on WCT and ACE did not reveal any significant differences between the analyzed variables (peak heart rate (HRpeak), peak oxygen uptake (VO2peak), minute ventilation (VE), anaerobic threshold (AT), lactate concentration (LApeak), and a drop in lactate concentration (% LA)). Strong correlations between results achieved in WCT and ACE tests were found for VO2peak, VE and LApeak. The main conclusion of the study is that both WCT and ACE tests may be useful when determining aerobic capacity of wheelchair basketball players. Moreover, both protocols can be used by athletes regardless of their functional capabilities and types of impairment.		[Molik, Bartosz; Kosmol, Andrzej; Morgulec-Adamowicz, Natalia; Lencse-Mucha, Judit; Marszalek, Jolanta] Jozef Pilsudski Univ Phys Educ Warsaw, Fac Rehabil, Ul Marymoncka 34, PL-00968 Warsaw, Poland; [Mroz, Anna; Gryko, Karol] Jozef Pilsudski Univ Phys Educ Warsaw, Fac Phys Educ, Warsaw, Poland; [Marszalek, Jolanta] Jozef Pilsudski Univ Phys Educ Warsaw, Fac Rehabil, Ul Marymoncka 34, PL-00968 Warsaw, Poland								19							Sport Sciences	WOS:000418922200026	56	Article; Article		
J	Kubayi, Alliance; Paul, Yvonne; Mahlangu, Prescott; Toriola, Abel								Physical Performance and Anthropometric Characteristics of Male South African University Soccer Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				60	1			153	158		10.1515/hukin-2017-0098			DEC 2017	2017	Soccer is the most popular sport worldwide. Despite its global acclaim, scientific studies of soccer have tended to focus on tactics and techniques, thereby neglecting the physical and physiological profile of the players. Therefore, the purpose of this study was to examine physical and anthropometric characteristics of male South African university soccer players. Twenty-seven male soccer players aged 19 to 24 (mean age: 22.1 years; s = 1.5 years) volunteered to participate in the study. The results showed that goalkeepers (77.5 +/- 9.7 kg) and defenders (68.2 +/- 6.5 kg) were the heaviest compared to players in other playing positions. The goalkeepers also had the highest percentage of body fat (11.3 +/- 2.3%), in contrast to midfielders who had the lowest body fat content (9.1 +/- 0.9%). With regard to flexibility, defenders (45.1 +/- 4.9 cm) and midfielders (45.9 +/- 5.4 cm) performed better than goalkeepers (37.1 +/- 4.3 cm) and strikers (40.1 +/- 3.4 cm). Midfielders (57.2 +/- 3.1 ml(-1).kg(-1).min(-1)) and defenders (56.1 +/- 5.1 ml(-1).kg(-1).min(-1)) had significantly higher values of maximal oxygen uptake (VO2max) than goalkeepers (47.9 +/- 0.2 ml(-1).kg(-1).min(-1)) and strikers (49.8 +/- 6.2 ml(-1).kg(-1).min(-1)). No significant (p > 0.05) differences were observed for all other variables, with the exception of body height, body mass, and VO2max. It was therefore concluded that sports scientists and coaches should tailor conditioning programmes in soccer according to players' positions in view of the implications for successful performance.		[Kubayi, Alliance; Paul, Yvonne; Mahlangu, Prescott; Toriola, Abel] Tshwane Univ Technol, Dept Sport Rehabil & Dent Sci, ZA-0001 Pretoria, South Africa; [Kubayi, Alliance] Tshwane Univ Technol, Dept Sport Rehabil & Dent Sci, ZA-0001 Pretoria, South Africa								11							Sport Sciences	WOS:000418922200016	21	Article; Article		
J	Fleckenstein, Johannes; Wilke, Jan; Vogt, Lutz; Banzer, Winfried								Preventive and Regenerative Foam Rolling are Equally Effective in Reducing Fatigue-Related Impairments of Muscle Function following Exercise								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				16	4			474	479					DEC 2017	2017	Objectives of the study were to compare the effects of a single bout of preventive or regenerative foam rolling (FR) on exercise-induced neuromuscular exhaustion. Single-centre randomised-controlled study was designed. Forty-five healthy adults (22 female; 25 +/- 2 yrs) were allocated to three groups: 1) FR of the lower limb muscles prior to induction of fatigue, 2) FR after induction of fatigue, 3) no-treatment control. Neuromuscular exhaustion was provoked using a standardized and validated functional agility short-term fatigue protocol. Main outcome measure was the maximal isometric voluntary force of the knee extensors (MIVF). Secondary outcomes included pain and reactive strength (RSI). Preventive (-16%) and regenerative FR (-12%) resulted in a decreased loss in MIVF compared to control (-21%; p < 0.001) five minutes after exhaustion. Post-hoc tests indicated a large-magnitude, non-significant trend towards regenerative foam rolling to best restore strength (Cohen's d > 0.8, p < 0.1). Differences over time (p < 0.001) between groups regarding pain and RSI did not turn out to be clinically meaningful. A single bout of foam rolling reduces neuromuscular exhaustion with reference to maximal force production. Regenerative rather than preventive foam rolling seems sufficient to prevent further fatigue.		[Fleckenstein, Johannes; Wilke, Jan; Vogt, Lutz; Banzer, Winfried] Goethe Univ, Inst Sports Sci, Dept Sports Med, Frankfurt, Germany; [Fleckenstein, Johannes] Univ Bern, Inst Complementary Med, Dept TCM Acupuncture, Bern, Switzerland; [Fleckenstein, Johannes] Goethe Univ, Inst Sports Sci, Dept Sports Med, Frankfurt, Germany; [Fleckenstein, Johannes] Univ Bern, Inst Complementary Med, Dept TCM Acupuncture, Bern, Switzerland								31							Sport Sciences	WOS:000422714000005	32	Article; Article		
J	Park, Hun-Young; Lim, Kiwon								Effects of Hypoxic Training versus Normoxic Training on Exercise Performance in Competitive Swimmers								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				16	4			480	488					DEC 2017	2017	In swimming competition, optimal swimming performance is characterized by a variety of interchangeable components, such as aerobic exercise capacity, anaerobic power and muscular function. Various hypoxic training methods would potentiate greater performance improvements compared to similar training at sea-level. Therefore, this study aimed to evaluate the effects of six-weeks of hypoxic training on exercise performance in moderately trained competitive swimmers. Twenty swimmers were equally divided into a normoxic training group (n = 10) for residing and training at sea-level (PIO2 = 149.7 mmHg), and a hypoxic training group (n = 10) for residing at sea-level but training at 526 mmHg hypobaric hypoxic condition (PIO2 = 100.6 mmHg). Aerobic exercise capacity, anaerobic power, muscular function, hormonal response and 50 and 400 m swimming performance were measured before and after training, which was composed of warm-up, continuous training, interval training, elastic resistance training, and cool-down. The training frequency was 120 min, 3 days per week for 6 weeks. Muscular function and hormonal response parameters showed significant interaction effects (all p < 0.032, eta(2) > 0.288) in muscular strength and endurance, growth hormone; GH, insulin like growth factor-1; IGF-1, and vascular endothelial growth factor; VEGF. The other variables demonstrated no significant interaction effects. However, a hypoxic training group also showed significantly increased maximal oxygen consumption; VO(2)max (p = 0.001), peak anaerobic power (p = 0.001), and swimming performances for 50 m (p = 0.000) and 400 m (p = 0.000). These results indicated that the hypoxic training method proposed in our study is effective for improvement of muscular strength and endurance in moderately trained competitive swimmers compared to control group. However, our hypoxic training method resulted in unclear changes in aerobic exercise capacity (VO(2)max), anaerobic power, and swimming performance of 50 m and 400 m compared to normoxic training.		[Park, Hun-Young; Lim, Kiwon] Konkuk Univ, Phys Act & Performance Inst, Seoul, South Korea; [Lim, Kiwon] Konkuk Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Seoul, South Korea; [Lim, Kiwon] Konkuk Univ, Phys Act & Performance Inst, Seoul, South Korea; [Lim, Kiwon] Konkuk Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Seoul, South Korea								28							Sport Sciences	WOS:000422714000006	37	Article; Article		
J	Kovalchik, Stephanie A.; Reid, Machar								Comparing Matchplay Characteristics and Physical Demands of Junior and Professional Tennis Athletes in the Era of Big Data								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				16	4			489	497					DEC 2017	2017	Differences in the competitive performance characteristics of junior and professional tennis players are not well understood. The present study provides a comprehensive comparative analysis of junior and professional matchplay. The study utilized multiple large-scale datasets covering match, point, and shot outcomes over multiple years of competition. Regression analysis was used to identify differences between junior and professional matchplay. Top professional men and women were found to play significantly more matches, sets, and games compared to junior players of an equivalent ranking. Professional players had a greater serve advantage, men winning 4 and women winning 2 additional percentage points on serve compared to juniors. Clutch ability in break point conversion was 6 to 8 percentage points greater for junior players. In general, shots were more powerful and more accurate at the professional level with the largest differences observed for male players on serve. Serving to the center of the court was more than two times more common for junior players on first serve. While male professionals performed 50% more total work in a Grand Slam match than juniors, junior girls performed 50% more work than professional women. Understanding how competitiveness, play demands, and the physical characteristics of shots differ between junior and professional tennis players can help set realistic expectations and developmentally appropriate training for transitioning players.		[Kovalchik, Stephanie A.] Victoria Univ, Inst Sport Exercise & Act Living, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Kovalchik, Stephanie A.; Reid, Machar] Tennis Australia, Game Insight Grp, Richmond South, Vic, Australia; [Kovalchik, Stephanie A.] Victoria Univ, Inst Sport Exercise & Act Living, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Kovalchik, Stephanie A.] Tennis Australia, Game Insight Grp, Richmond South, Vic, Australia								99							Sport Sciences	WOS:000422714000007	39	Article; Article		
J	Williams, Sean; Booton, Thomas; Watson, Matthew; Rowland, Daniel; Altini, Marco								Heart Rate Variability is a Moderating Factor in the Workload-Injury Relationship of Competitive CrossFit™ Athletes								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				16	4			443	449					DEC 2017	2017	Heart rate variability (HRV) is a popular tool for monitoring training adaptation and readiness in athletes, but it also has the potential to indicate early signs of somatic tissue overload prior to the onset of pain or fully developed injury. Therefore, the aim of this study was to investigate the interaction between HRV, workloads, and risk of overuse problems in competitive CrossFit (TM) athletes. Daily resting HRV and workloads (duration x session-RPE) were recorded in six competitive CrossFit (TM) athletes across a 16 week period. The Oslo Sports Trauma Research Center Overuse Injury Questionnaire was distributed weekly by e-mail. Acute-to-chronic workload ratios (ACWR) and the rolling 7-day average of the natural logarithm of the square root of the mean sum of the squared differences between R-R intervals (Ln rMSSD(week)) were parsed into tertiles (low, moderate/normal, and high) based on within-individual z-scores. The interaction between Ln rMSSD(week) and ACWR on overuse injury risk in the subsequent week was assessed using a generalized linear mixed-effects model and magnitude-based inferences. The risk of overuse problems was substantially increased when a 'low' Ln rMSSD(week) was seen in combination with a 'high' ACWR (relative risk [RR]: 2.61, 90% CI: 1.38 - 4.93). In contrast, high ACWRs were well-tolerated when Ln rMSSD(week) remained 'normal' or was 'high'. Monitoring HRV trends alongside workloads may provide useful information on an athlete's emerging global pattern to loading. HRV monitoring may therefore be used by practitioners to adjust and individualise training load prescriptions, in order to minimise overuse injury risk.		[Williams, Sean; Booton, Thomas; Watson, Matthew; Rowland, Daniel] Univ Bath, Dept Hlth, Bath, Avon, England; [Altini, Marco] Univ Passau, ACTLab, Passau, Germany; [Williams, Sean] Univ Bath, Dept Hlth, Bath, Avon, England								56							Sport Sciences	WOS:000422714000001	43	Article; Article		
J	Bourdon, Eric; Mavor, Matthew; Hay, Dean C.								Assessment of Three-Dimensional Trunk Kinematics and Muscle Activation during Cycling with Independent Cranks								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				16	4			536	542					DEC 2017	2017	Independent cranks (IC) are recently introduced bicycle cranks that are decoupled; therefore allowing each leg to pedal independent of the other. Despite this introduction, limited research has been conducted assessing biomechanical changes when cycling with IC. Therefore, the purpose of this study was to evaluate and compare trunk kinematics and surface electromyography (sEMG) during IC and normal crank (NC) cycling during a graded exercise test to volitional fatigue. Ten healthy, physically active men performed two tests (IC and NC) on a cycling ergometer on separate days. 3D motion capture data of the trunk and pelvis and sEMG of the latissimus dorsi, tibialis anterior, gastrocnemius lateral head, rectus femoris, vastus lateralis and the biceps femoris were collected bilaterally. The first 30 seconds (beginning) and the last 30 seconds (end) of each trial were analyzed with respect to external load (beginning vs end), crank type (IC vs NC) side (left vs right), and phase of the pedal cycle (push vs recovery). Mean load at volitional fatigue in NC (351 W) was significantly greater than IC (318 W; p < 0.001). As external load increased, there was a similar increase in spine flexion angle in the sagittal plane for both NC (8.2 degrees) and IC (4.6 degrees). The NC condition demonstrated significantly greater increase in muscle activation from the beginning to the end than the IC condition in the tibialis anterior, rectus femoris and biceps femoris in the push phase, and the rectus femoris and biceps femoris in the recovery phase. As IC demonstrated less increase in activation, they cause less variation in muscular contraction from beginning to end throughout the full pedal range of motion, yet do not alter gross trunk kinematics. Due to altered muscle activation patterns when cycling with IC, they are proposed as a potentially beneficial training tool to increase training diversity.		[Bourdon, Eric; Hay, Dean C.] Nipissing Univ, Sch Phys & Hlth Educ, 100 Coll Dr,Box 5002, North Bay, ON P1B 8L7, Canada; [Mavor, Matthew] Univ Ottawa, Sch Human Kinet, Ottawa, ON, Canada; [Hay, Dean C.] Nipissing Univ, Sch Phys & Hlth Educ, 100 Coll Dr,Box 5002, North Bay, ON P1B 8L7, Canada								7							Sport Sciences	WOS:000422714000013	24	Article; Article		
J	Vasickova, Jana; Neumannova, Katerina; Svozil, Zbynek								The Effect of Respiratory Muscle Training on Fin-Swimmers' Performance								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				16	4			521	526					DEC 2017	2017	Although respiratory muscle functions can influence swimming performance, respiratory muscle training (RMT) is not routinely used for improving fin-swimmers ' performance. The aim of our study was to verify the benefit of a one month of RMT in young fin-swimmers. We assessed the effect of this training on respiratory muscles and on maximal underwater swimming distance. 28 fin-swimmers were randomly divided into an experimental group (EG) and a control group (CG). The study finished with 20 fin-swimmers (EG: n = 12; average age 12.0; weight 47.4 kg; height 1.58 m; CG: n = 8; age 11.5; weight 49.6 kg; height 1.53 m). Both group performed regular swimming training, during which the EG used Threshold PEP (positive expiratory pressure) and IMT (inspiratory muscle trainer) for RMT for one month. After one-month washout period, the CG also performed RMT. RMT showed significant improvement of inspiratory muscles in both groups (Z = <1.96; 2.59>; p < 0.05). Significant improvement was observed also in apnoea (AP) max (Z(CG) = 2.03; p < 0.05; Z(EG)=2.93; p < 0.01). A long-term effect was observed in the respiratory muscle strength and AP max in the EG (Z(EG) = 2.52; p < 0.05). RMT in fin-swimmers improves both respiratory muscle strength and the performance in AP max.		[Vasickova, Jana; Neumannova, Katerina; Svozil, Zbynek] Palacky Univ, Fac Phys Culture, Tr Miru 117, Olomouc 77111, Czech Republic; [Vasickova, Jana] Palacky Univ, Fac Phys Culture, Tr Miru 117, Olomouc 77111, Czech Republic								36							Sport Sciences	WOS:000422714000011	18	Article; Article		
J	Kwon, Sunku; Pfister, Robin; Hager, Ronald L.; Hunter, Iain; Seeley, Matthew K.								Influence of Tennis Racquet Kinematics on Ball Topspin Angular Velocity and Accuracy during the Forehand Groundstroke								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				16	4			505	513					DEC 2017	2017	Forehand groundstroke effectiveness is important for tennis success. Ball topspin angular velocity (TAV) and accuracy are important for forehand groundstroke effectiveness, and have been extensively studied, previously; despite previous, quality studies, it was unclear whether certain racquet kinematics relate to ball TAV and shot accuracy during the forehand groundstroke. This study evaluated potential relationships between (1) ball TAV and (2) forehand accuracy, and five measures of racquet kinematics: racquet head impact angle (i.e., closed or open face), horizontal and vertical racquet head velocity before impact, racquet head trajectory (resultant velocity direction, relative to horizontal) before impact, and hitting zone length (quasi-linear displacement, immediately before and after impact). Thirteen collegiate-level tennis players hit forehand groundstrokes in a biomechanics laboratory, where racquet kinematics and ball TAV were measured, and on a tennis court, to assess accuracy. Correlational statistics were used to evaluate potential relationships between racquet kinematics, and ball TAV (mixed model) and forehand accuracy (between-subjects model; alpha = 0.05). We observed an average (1) racquet head impact angle, (2) racquet head trajectory before impact, relative to horizontal, (3) racquet head horizontal velocity before impact, (4) racquet head vertical velocity before impact, and (5) hitting zone length of 80.4 +/- 3.6 degrees, 18.6 +/- 4.3 degrees, 15.4 +/- 1.4 m.s(-1), 6.6 +/- 2.2 m.s(-1), and 79.8 +/- 8.6 mm, respectively; and an average ball TAV of 969 +/- 375 revolutions per minute. Only racquet head impact angle and racquet head vertical velocity, before impact, significantly correlated with ball TAV (p < 0.01). None of the observed racquet kinematics significantly correlated to the measures of forehand accuracy. These results confirmed mechanical logic and indicate that increased ball TAV is associated with a more closed racquet head impact angle (ranging from 70 to 85 degrees, relative to the ground) and increased racquet head vertical velocity before impact.		[Kwon, Sunku; Pfister, Robin; Hager, Ronald L.; Hunter, Iain; Seeley, Matthew K.] Brigham Young Univ, Dept Exercise Sci, Provo, UT 84602 USA; [Seeley, Matthew K.] Brigham Young Univ, Dept Exercise Sci, Provo, UT 84602 USA								27							Sport Sciences	WOS:000422714000009	34	Article; Article		
J	Pueo, Basilio; Jimenez-Olmedo, Jose M.; Penichet-Tomas, Alfonso; Ortega-Becerra, Manuel; Espina Agullo, Jose J.								Analysis of Time-Motion and Heart Rate in Elite Male and Female Beach Handball								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				16	4			450	458					DEC 2017	2017	Beach handball is a spectacular new team sport; however, scientific knowledge about the demands in beach handball is very low. Consequently, the aim of this study was to analyze the physical demands of elite beach handball players by means of time-motion analysis with GPS technology and physiological response with Heart Rate (HR). Both male (n = 12) and female (n = 12) players from the Spanish Beach Handball National Team were recruited for this study. The sample consisted in four matches of two 10-min periods each. Time-motion analysis was performed through GPS devices (SPI Pro X, 15 Hz, GPSports) with synchronized HR monitoring (Polar Electro, Finland). All parameters were recorded for matches and halves to express overall and time-dependent physical and physiological responses. Total match distance covered by male and female players were 1234.7 +/- 192 m and 1118.2 +/- 221.8 m, respectively. Female players covered more total distance (p = 0.049, ES = 0.79) and distance walking (p < 0.001, ES = 2.04) in the first half, whereas they covered more distance standing (p = 0.008, ES = 1.05) in the second half at a higher average speed (p < 0.001, ES = 2.28). The number of accelerations distributed over low-, moderate-and high-intensity categories were 43.2 +/- 11.6, 9.4 +/- 4.9; 0.8 +/- 0.9 m/s(2) for male players, and 40.3 +/- 12.7, 4.3 +/- 3.0; 0.1 +/- 0.3 m/s2 for female players; equivalent to one body acceleration every 23 s and 27 s, respectively. Finally, male and female players obtained a maximum/mean HR of 173 +/- 13 / 137 +/- 12 bpm, and 177 +/- 13 / 138 +/- 18 bpm, with 20.3% and 29.2% of the total time in the anaerobic zone (81 - 90% HRmax), respectively. These results demonstrated that beach handball is a demanding sport, with numerous moderate-to-high intensity displacements, distributed intermittently throughout the game: long periods of low intensity activity interspersed by short bursts of high intensity.		[Pueo, Basilio; Jimenez-Olmedo, Jose M.; Penichet-Tomas, Alfonso; Espina Agullo, Jose J.] Univ Alicante, Fac Educ, Sport Sci, Alicante, Spain; [Ortega-Becerra, Manuel] Univ Pablo de Olavide, Dept Sport, Seville, Andalusia, Spain; [Pueo, Basilio] Univ Alicante, Fac Educ, Sport Sci, Alicante, Spain								53							Sport Sciences	WOS:000422714000002	54	Article; Article		
J	Millar, Sarah-Kate; Oldham, Anthony R. H.; Renshaw, Ian; Hopkins, Will G.								Athlete and coach agreement: Identifying successful performance								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				12	6			807	813		10.1177/1747954117738886			DEC 2017	2017	Traditional coaching views the coach as an informed resource and the athlete as a reflection of expert knowledge. Recent approaches have criticised a strictly coach driven model of expertise, and in doing so have acknowledged the unique and developing knowledge of athletes, which emerges from extended practice. The growth of the athlete's contribution in the coach-athlete dyad invites interesting questions about the usefulness of athlete knowledge and the changing role of the coach. Athlete-coach agreement was assessed via a triangulation of quantitative boat speed data from a single sculler and matched to phases of successful rowing that rowers and coaches both agreed on. Coach and rower were able to identify when the boat was travelling its fastest or slowest. However, when the performance was marginally faster or slower, they disagreed, and generally the rowers were more accurate about the performance than their coach. Implications for contemporary coaching practices are considered.		[Millar, Sarah-Kate; Oldham, Anthony R. H.; Renshaw, Ian; Hopkins, Will G.] Auckland Univ Technol, Sport Performance Res Inst New Zealand, Auckland, New Zealand; [Renshaw, Ian] Queensland Univ Technol, Sch Exercise Nutr Sci, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [Millar, Sarah-Kate] Auckland Univ Technol, Sport Performance Res Inst New Zealand, Coaching Res Grp, AUT Millennium Campus,Level 2,17 Antares Pl, Auckland, New Zealand								10							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000416360100012	37	Article; Article		
J	Koh, Koon Teck; Camire, Martin; Bloom, Gordon A.; Wang, C. K. J.								Creation, implementation, and evaluation of a values-based training program for sport coaches and physical education teachers in Singapore								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				12	6			795	806		10.1177/1747954117730987			DEC 2017	2017	The purpose of the study was to create, implement, and evaluate a values-based training program for sport coaches and physical education teachers in Singapore. Four sport coaches with two to eight years of coaching experience (M=5.0, SD=1.4) and four physical education teachers with two to nine years of teaching experience (M=5.25, SD=3.3) took part in three 2-h training workshops focusing on the teaching of values to athletes and students. Following the workshops, the participants took part in an individual interview to document their perspectives of the values-based training program. Results of the thematic analysis revealed many benefits of the values-based training program, including an increased awareness of the importance of systematically teaching values through physical education and sport. Further, the participants felt better equipped to work with parents and other teachers in helping athletes and students transfer values.		[Koh, Koon Teck; Wang, C. K. J.] Nanyang Technol Univ, Phys Educ Sports Sci, Singapore, Singapore; [Camire, Martin] Univ Ottawa, Ottawa, ON, Canada; [Bloom, Gordon A.] McGill Univ, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Koh, Koon Teck] Nanyang Technol Univ, Grad Programs, Phys Educ & Sports Sci, 1 Nanyang Walk, Singapore 637616, Singapore								27							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000416360100011	34	Article; Article		
J	Krause, Daniel								Effects of additional knowledge of results on modifying highly practiced acyclic swimming techniques with knowledge of performance								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				12	6			737	746		10.1177/1747954117738894			DEC 2017	2017	The author investigated the effects of additional knowledge of results on modifying swimming starts and turns with video-based knowledge of performance. A total of 18 swimming experts (15-18 years of age) learned modifications of start and turn techniques with knowledge of performance or a combination of knowledge of performance and knowledge of results. The feedback condition was switched between the groups from experiment 1 to experiment 2. Both experiments contained 50 trials with augmented feedback distributed over five sessions. Both experiments revealed no detrimental effects of additional knowledge of results on process-related performance variables. With respect to the result-related variables (start time and turn time), only the groups without knowledge of results exhibited temporary impairment in the immediate retention tests. The results are largely replicated in both experiments. Knowledge of results seems to have positive effects on modifying with knowledge of performance. The presence of knowledge of results might reduce the deautomatizing conscious control processes that are induced by knowledge of performance and might cause temporary performance impairments.		[Krause, Daniel] Paderborn Univ, Dept Exercise & Hlth, Warburgerstr 100, D-33098 Paderborn, Germany; [Krause, Daniel] Paderborn Univ, Dept Exercise & Hlth, Warburgerstr 100, D-33098 Paderborn, Germany								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000416360100005	44	Article; Article		
J	Pehrson, Sebastian; Stambulova, Natalia B.; Olsson, Kasper								Revisiting the empirical model "Phases in the junior-to-senior transition of Swedish ice hockey players': External validation through focus groups and interviews								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				12	6			747	761		10.1177/1747954117738897			DEC 2017	2017	In this study, we continue to explore the junior-to-senior transition process in Swedish ice hockey by validating the empirical model Phases in the junior-to-senior transition of Swedish ice hockey players' created in our previous study.(1) More specifically, we collected opinions and critical reflections of 15 senior professional players and expert coaches about the empirical model as a whole and about the content of each junior-to-senior transition phase and then converted the original empirical model into its validated version. Professional ice hockey players and first league coaches formed three focus groups, while three senior coaches were interviewed individually. All were encouraged to critically reflect on the empirical model. The data from all sources were analysed following guidelines of the thematic (deductive) analysis complemented by quantitative measurements of the participants' agreement with the content of the empirical model. Results supported the sequence and designations of the junior-to-senior transition phases (i.e. preparation, orientation, adaptation and stabilization), as well as duration of the junior-to-senior transition (i.e. up to four seasons) outlined by the empirical model. We were also able to validate the psychological content (perceived demands, resources, barriers, coping strategies and outcomes) of each transitional phase. Accordingly, five themes were reformulated, 17 new themes were added and some themes were re-ordered during the conversion of the original empirical model into the validated model. To improve the readability of the validated model (from the bottom to the top), we also re-ordered sub-categories describing the psychological content of each junior-to-senior transition phase. We conclude by discussing the validated model in relation to theoretical frameworks and previous research and providing some methodology, future research and practice-oriented reflections addressed to researchers, coaches and sport psychology practitioners.		[Pehrson, Sebastian; Stambulova, Natalia B.; Olsson, Kasper] Halmstad Univ, Sch Hlth & Welf, Box 823, S-30118 Halmstad, Sweden; [Olsson, Kasper] Liverpool John Moore Univ, Sch Sport & Exercise Sci, Liverpool, Merseyside, England; [Stambulova, Natalia B.] Halmstad Univ, Sch Hlth & Welf, Box 823, S-30118 Halmstad, Sweden								18							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000416360100006	40	Article; Article		
J	Altfeld, Sebastian; Langenkamp, Heiner; Beckmann, Juergen; Kellmann, Michael								Measuring the effectiveness of psychologically oriented basketball drills in team practice to improve self-regulation								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				12	6			725	736		10.1177/1747954117738891			DEC 2017	2017	It has repeatedly been shown that effective regulation of one's emotional states is crucial for high performance in sports. However, self-regulation skills need to be learned and practiced by players for effective use. The present study examined the effectiveness of newly designed basketball drills for regular team practice for implementing and improving self-regulation skills in young basketball players. A quasi-experimental design with four measurements and two follow-ups was applied. The sample included two teams (N=20) of the highest national under 16 youth basketball league of Germany. The intervention group was instructed in self-regulation skills (e.g. self-talk, self-relaxation, routines) at the beginning of the intervention. Subsequently, the techniques were practiced in the course of eight psychologically oriented basketball drills between the second and fourth measurement. The sport-specific Volitional Components Questionnaire and the Action Control Scale Sport were used in this study. Results indicated that the intervention group improved significantly in the factors measuring self-motivation and dealing with negative thoughts while the control group showed no significant effects. The effects were maintained in the follow-ups. The results imply that learned and practiced strategies to regulate one's emotional state have long-term benefits for players.		[Altfeld, Sebastian; Langenkamp, Heiner; Kellmann, Michael] Ruhr Univ Bochum, Fac Sport Sci, Gesundheitscampus Nord 10, D-44801 Bochum, Germany; [Beckmann, Juergen] Tech Univ Munich, Fac Sport Sci, Munich, Germany; [Kellmann, Michael] Univ Queensland, Sch Human Movement & Nutr Sci, St Lucia, Qld, Australia; [Altfeld, Sebastian] Ruhr Univ Bochum, Fac Sport Sci, Gesundheitscampus Nord 10, D-44801 Bochum, Germany								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000416360100004	67	Article; Article		
J	Griffin, Jesse A.; McLellan, Christopher P.; Presland, Jarrod; Woods, Carl T.; Keogh, Justin W. L.								Effect of defensive pressure on international women's rugby sevens attacking skills frequency and execution								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				12	6			716	724		10.1177/1747954117738887			DEC 2017	2017	The aim of the present study was to determine the effect of defensive pressure on the execution of attacking skills in international women's rugby sevens. Performance analyses were conducted across 42 training camp drills during the 2012-2013 season. Training camp sessions were recorded using a video camera positioned from an aerial perspective, with the attacking team's performance analysed during game-based drills. Technical skills assessed included pass type, pass accuracy, catching, evasive moves and line breaks. Results indicated that defensive pressure had a significant effect on a player's pass type, evasive moves and line breaks (p<0.05), but no significant effect on passing accuracy and catching skill (p>0.05). A cut-out pass (standard residual=3.3) was more likely to happen than expected by chance during no defence. An offload was more likely to occur than expected by chance during contested defence (standard residual=9.6). A line break (standard residual=4.7) and a swerve (standard residual=2.5) were more likely to happen than expected by chance during contested defence. Coaches should progressively overload the degree of defensive pressure during training. This may encourage the performance of non-conventional passes under contested defensive pressure, more closely reflecting the requisites of competition game-play.		[Griffin, Jesse A.; McLellan, Christopher P.; Keogh, Justin W. L.] Bond Univ, Fac Hlth Sci & Med, 14 Univ Dr, Robina, Qld 4226, Australia; [Presland, Jarrod] Australian Rugby Union, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Woods, Carl T.] James Cook Univ, Discipline Sport & Exercise Sci, Townsville, Qld, Australia; [Keogh, Justin W. L.] Auckland Univ Technol, Sports Performance Res Ctr New Zealand, Auckland, New Zealand; [Keogh, Justin W. L.] Univ Sunshine Coast, Fac Sci Hlth Educ & Engn, Sunshine Coast, Australia; [Griffin, Jesse A.] Bond Univ, Fac Hlth Sci & Med, 14 Univ Dr, Robina, Qld 4226, Australia								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000416360100003	25	Article; Article		
J	Hill, James Richard; Jolly, Nicholas A.								Revenue Sharing and Player Salaries in Major League Baseball								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				18	8			831	849		10.1177/1527002515609660			DEC 2017	2017	This article analyzes how changes made to the revenue sharing agreement in the 2007 Major League Baseball collective bargaining agreement influenced the salaries of position players and pitchers. The tax rates associated with revenue sharing decreased following ratification of the 2007 agreement. Theoretically, these changes should increase players' marginal revenue product and, therefore, salaries. Results indicate that position players experienced an increase in salary following the 2007 agreement. Pitchers' salaries also increased, but by a smaller amount. The effect of the 2007 agreement was different throughout the salary distribution for position players, but uniform throughout the distribution for pitchers.		[Hill, James Richard] Cent Michigan Univ, Dept Econ, Mt Pleasant, MI 48859 USA; [Jolly, Nicholas A.] Marquette Univ, Dept Econ, POB 1881, Milwaukee, WI 53201 USA; [Jolly, Nicholas A.] Marquette Univ, Dept Econ, POB 1881, Milwaukee, WI 53201 USA								7							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000414677300004	21	Article; Article		
J	Yaskewich, David M.								Heterogeneous Ability and Risk Taking in a Rank-Order Tournament: An Analysis of NASCAR's Pick-A-Series Rule								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				18	8			803	830		10.1177/1527002515609663			DEC 2017	2017	Since 2011, the National Association for Stock Car Auto Racing (NASCAR) has forced drivers to pick one of three national series for which they would be eligible to compete for a season championship. Prior to this Pick-A-Series rule, many drivers in the premier Sprint Cup Series competed regularly in the Nationwide Series, which is a developmental division for less experienced drivers. I examined whether the removal of moonlighting Sprint Cup drivers from championship contention encouraged less aggressive driving among those who competed exclusively in the Nationwide Series. There was weak evidence that the Pick-A-Series rule reduced accident proneness among Nationwide drivers relative to Sprint Cup drivers.		[Yaskewich, David M.] Southeast Missouri State Univ, Dept Econ, One Univ Plaza,Mailstop 5845, Cape Girardeau, MO 63701 USA; [Yaskewich, David M.] Southeast Missouri State Univ, Dept Econ, One Univ Plaza,Mailstop 5845, Cape Girardeau, MO 63701 USA								2							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000414677300003	22	Article; Article		
J	Aquino, Rodrigo; Alves, Isabella S.; Padilha, Maickel B.; Casanova, Filipe; Puggina, Enrico F.; Maia, Jose								Multivariate Profiles of Selected Versus non-Selected Elite Youth Brazilian Soccer Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				60	1			113	121		10.1515/hukin-2017-0094			DEC 2017	2017	This study determined whether a multivariate profile more effectively discriminated selected than non-selected elite youth Brazilian soccer players. This examination was carried out on 66 youth soccer players (selected, n = 28, mean age 16.3 +/- 0.1; non-selected, n = 38, mean age 16.7 +/- 0.4) using objective instruments. Multivariate profiles were assessed through anthropometric characteristics, biological maturation, tactical-technical skills, and motor performance. The Student's t-test identified that selected players exhibited significantly higher values for height (t = 2.331, p = 0.02), lean body mass (t = 2.441, p = 0.01), and maturity offset (t = 4.559, p < 0.001), as well as performed better in declarative tactical knowledge (t = 10.484, p < 0.001), shooting (t = 2.188, p = 0.03), dribbling (t = 5.914, p < 0.001), speed - 30 m (t = 8.304, p < 0.001), countermovement jump (t = 2.718, p = 0.008), and peak power tests (t = 2.454, p = 0.01). Forward stepwise discriminant function analysis showed that declarative tactical knowledge, running speed - 30 m, maturity offset, dribbling, height, and peak power correctly classified 97% of the selected players. These findings may have implications for a highly efficient selection process with objective measures of youth players in soccer clubs.		[Aquino, Rodrigo; Padilha, Maickel B.; Casanova, Filipe; Maia, Jose] Univ Porto, Fac Sport, CIFI2D, Oporto, Portugal; [Aquino, Rodrigo; Puggina, Enrico F.] Univ Sao Paulo, Med Sch Ribeirao Preto, Postgrad Program Rehabil & Funct Performance, Ribeirao Preto, Brazil; [Alves, Isabella S.; Puggina, Enrico F.] Univ Sao Paulo, Sch Phys Educ & Sport, Ribeirao Preto, Brazil; [Aquino, Rodrigo] Univ Sao Paulo, Med Sch, Av Bandeirantes 3900, BR-14049900 Ribeirao Preto, Brazil								32							Sport Sciences	WOS:000418922200012	34	Article; Article		
J	Driller, Matthew; Mackay, Kelsi; Mills, Blair; Tavares, Francisco								Tissue flossing on ankle range of motion, jump and sprint performance: A follow-up study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				28				29	33		10.1016/j.ptsp.2017.08.081			NOV 2017	2017	Objectives: Previous results from our laboratory suggest that band flossing results in increased ankle range of motion (ROM) and jump performance 5-min following application. However, the time-course of such benefits is yet to be examined. Design: Parallel group design. Setting: University laboratory. Participants: 69 recreational athletes (32 male/37 female). Main outcome measures: Participants performed a weight-bearing lunge test (WBLT), a countermovement jump (CMJ) and a 15 m sprint test (SPRINT) pre and up to 45-min post application of a floss band to both ankles (FLOSS) or without flossing of the ankle joints (CON). Results: There was a significant intervention x time interaction in favour of FLOSS when compared to CON for the WBLT (p < 0.05). These results were associated with trivial to small effect sizes at all time points. Small, but non-significant (p > 0.05) benefits were seen for FLOSS when compared to CON for CMJ force (mean +/- 90%CI: 89 +/- 101 N) and 15 m SPRINT times (-0.06 +/- 0.04 s) at 45-min post. Conclusion: There is a trend towards a benefit for the use of floss bands applied to the ankle joint to improve ROM, jump. and sprint performance in recreational athletes for up to 45-min following their application. (C) 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Driller, Matthew; Mackay, Kelsi; Mills, Blair; Tavares, Francisco] Univ Waikato, Hlth Sport & Human Performance, Hamilton, New Zealand; [Mills, Blair; Tavares, Francisco] Chiefs Super Rugby, Hamilton, New Zealand; [Driller, Matthew] Univ Waikato, Hlth Sport & Human Performance, Hamilton, New Zealand								51							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000415780800005	19	Article; Article		
J	Claver, Fernando; Jimenez, Ruth; Gil-Arias, Alexander; Moreno, Alberto; Perla Moreno, M.								The Cognitive and Motivation Intervention Program in Youth Female Volleyball Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				59	1			55	65		10.1515/hukin-2017-0147			OCT 2017	2017	This study, grounded in Self-Determination Theory (Deci and Ryan, 1985, 2002) was aimed to determine the influence of a cognitive-motivational intervention program, to improve the basic psychological need satisfaction of autonomy and competence, autonomous motivation, procedural knowledge, perceived performance and sport commitment, in youth volleyball players. Participants included 34 Under-19 female volleyball players. A quasi-experimental design was carried out with an experimental group (n = 16; M = 17.45; SD =.45) and a control group (n = 18; M = 16.64; SD =.70). The experimental group followed a multidimensional intervention program comprised of 24 sessions held over three months (two training sessions per week). It was based on two strategies: giving athletes the possibility of choice in specific training tasks (proposing training situations with several action alternatives) and questioning (cognitively involving players through tactical questions). A repeated-measures MANOVA 2 (group: experimental and control) x 2 (time: pre-test and post-test) was used to analyse the effect of Group x Time interaction. The results of the inter-group analysis showed significant differences in the post-test measurement between the experimental group and the control group (in favour of the experimental group) in the variables: basic psychological need satisfaction of autonomy and competence, autonomous motivation, procedural knowledge, perceived performance and sport commitment. Given the relevance of the cognitive-motivational processes, not only for performance but also for sport commitment, this intervention has important implications for sport coaching.		[Claver, Fernando; Jimenez, Ruth; Moreno, Alberto; Perla Moreno, M.] Univ Extremadura, Fac Sport Sci, Didact & Behav Anal Sport Res Grp, Caceres, Spain; [Gil-Arias, Alexander] Rey Juan Carlos Univ, Area Phys Educ & Sport, Madrid, Spain; [Claver, Fernando] Univ Extremadura, Fac Sport Sci, Avda Univ S-N, Caceres 10005, Spain								15							Sport Sciences	WOS:000418201500006	30	Article; Article		
J	Leyton, Marta; Batista, Marco; Lobato, Susana; Isabel Aspano, Ma; Jimenez, Ruth								Application of Two Intervention Programs in Order to Optimize Motivation and to Improve Eating Habits in Adult and Elderly Women								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				59	1			131	142		10.1515/hukin-2017-0153			OCT 2017	2017	The objective of this study was to analyse the effectiveness of two intervention programs: a physical exercise program with strategies to support the three basic psychological needs (autonomy, competence and relatedness); and a physical exercise program with nutritional education in order to improve the lifestyles of adult and elderly women who practiced functional maintenance. The Self-Determination Theory was applied as the theoretical framework. A sample of 135 women aged between 40 and 88 years (59.66 +/- 10.76) who enrolled in a 12-week functional maintenance program and attended 24 exercise classes took part in the study. A quasi-experimental study was performed where strategies to support the three basic psychological needs were applied to one group and strategies for the improvement of eating habits were applied to the other group. No strategy was applied to the control group. The main results showed an improvement in experimental groups I and II when compared to the control group regarding the variables of autonomy, competence, intrinsic regulation, identified regulation, introjected regulation, external regulation and eating habits, after the application of the intervention programs. The conclusion is that both intervention programs were successful with this project's participants and that it is crucial to promote such intervention programs in functional maintenance classes, as they foster healthy lifestyles among participants.		[Leyton, Marta] Univ Autonoma Madrid, C Francisco Tomas Valiente 3, E-28049 Madrid, Spain; [Batista, Marco] Polytech Inst Castelo Branco, Castelo Branco, Portugal; [Lobato, Susana; Jimenez, Ruth] Univ Extremadura, Badajoz, Spain; [Isabel Aspano, Ma] Primary Sch CRA, Via La Plata, Caceres, Spain; [Leyton, Marta] Univ Autonoma Madrid, C Francisco Tomas Valiente 3, E-28049 Madrid, Spain								17							Sport Sciences	WOS:000418201500012	31	Article; Article		
J	Kruk, Magdalena; Blecharz, Jan; Boberska, Monika; Zarychta, Karolina; Luszczynska, Aleksandra								Mental Strategies Predict Performance and Satisfaction with Performance Among Soccer Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				59	1			79	90		10.1515/hukin-2017-0149			OCT 2017	2017	This study investigated the changes in mental strategies across the season and their effects on performance and satisfaction with individual performance. Data were collected three times: at the pre-season at Time 1 (T1; baseline), in the mid-season at Time 2 (T2; two-month follow-up), and at the end-of-season at Time 3 (T3; nine-month follow-up) among male soccer players (N = 97) aged 16-27. Athletes completed the questionnaires assessing the use of nine psychological strategies in competition and the level of satisfaction with individual performance. Endurance performance was measured objectively with a 300 m run. A high level of relaxation (T1) explained better 300 m run performance (T3) and a high level of self-talk explained a higher satisfaction with individual performance (T3). A rare use of distractibility and emotional control (T1) predicted a higher level of satisfaction with individual performance (T3). No predictive role of other psychological strategies was found. The use of emotional control, relaxation, and distractibility increased over the season, whereas the use of imagery and negative thinking declined. Besides the roles of self-talk, imagery, relaxation and goal-setting, the effects of distractibility and emotional control should be taken into account when considering athletes' mental training programs.		[Kruk, Magdalena; Boberska, Monika; Zarychta, Karolina; Luszczynska, Aleksandra] SWPS Univ Social Sci & Humanities, Wroclaw Dept Psychol, 30b Ostrowskiego St, PL-53238 Wroclaw, Poland; [Blecharz, Jan] Univ Phys Educ, Krakow, Poland; [Luszczynska, Aleksandra] Univ Colorado, Colorado Springs, CO 80907 USA; [Kruk, Magdalena] SWPS Univ Social Sci & Humanities, Wroclaw Dept Psychol, 30b Ostrowskiego St, PL-53238 Wroclaw, Poland								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:000418201500008	30	Article; Article		
J	Franco, Evelia; Coteron, Javier								The Effects of a Physical Education Intervention to Support the Satisfaction of Basic Psychological Needs on the Motivation and Intentions to Be Physically Active								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				59	1			5	15		10.1515/hukin-2017-0143			OCT 2017	2017	The aim of the study was to investigate the effects of an intervention to support the basic psychological needs on the satisfaction of these needs, intrinsic motivation, intention to be physically active and some enjoyment-related outcomes in Physical Education. The present study incorporated strategies presented by Standage and Ryan (2012) in a previous study. A quasi-experimental study was conducted with two groups (n(experimental) = 30; n(control) = 23) of 2nd year Secondary Education students aged between 13 and 15 (M = 13.35, SD =.62) by delivering 24 physical education classes. The teacher in the experimental group underwent prior and continual training. The results revealed that the students from the experimental group showed a significant increase in the perception of autonomy and competence. Furthermore, the experimental group showed a greater perception than the control group in the enjoyment related to learning and contents. These results provide information about the efficacy of an intervention programme based on the strategies presented by Standage and Ryan (2012) to foster satisfaction of basic psychological needs and facilitate support for basic psychological needs to promote the development of positive learning-related outcomes.		[Franco, Evelia; Coteron, Javier] Univ Politecn Madrid, Madrid, Spain; [Coteron, Javier] INEF, Fac Ciencias Actividad Fis & Deporte, Calle Martin Fierro 7, Madrid 28040, Spain								48							Sport Sciences	WOS:000418201500002	34	Article; Article		
J	Pulido, Juan J.; Sanchez-Oliva, David; Leo, Francisco M.; Matos, Sergio; Garcia-Calvo, Tomas								Effects of an Interpersonal Style Intervention for Coaches on Young Soccer Players' Motivational Processes								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				59	1			107	120		10.1515/hukin-2017-0151			OCT 2017	2017	The main goal of the study was to assess the effects of an intervention programme developed with soccer coaches, based on promoting strategies to optimise the satisfaction of the basic psychological needs of athletes. Eight soccer coaches, aged between 19 and 50 years (M = 32.5; SD = 14.34), participated in the study. They were selected intentionally (without academic or federative training) and divided equally into a control and an experimental group by random peer selection. Also, 109 soccer players, aged between 11 and 15 years (M = 13.78; SD = 1.38), divided into a control group (CG; n = 56) and an experimental group (EG; n = 53), participated in the experiment. The training programme (12 hours) was aimed to develop methodological and motivational strategies to promote autonomy, competence and relatedness need satisfaction among the players. The results showed that the participants in the EG decreased competence and relatedness control, while significantly increased (post-intervention) competence and relatedness needs satisfaction. Moreover, values for the EG did not decrease for autonomy, competence frustration and amotivation, while they increased for the sport commitment. Also, intrinsic motivation decreased in both groups (greater decrease in the CG). In conclusion, we can affirm the effectiveness of the training programme to create an environment of "bright side" motivation, and reduce thwarting styles, needs frustration and low self-determination levels.		[Pulido, Juan J.; Sanchez-Oliva, David; Matos, Sergio; Garcia-Calvo, Tomas] Univ Extremadura, Fac Sport Sci, C Ave Univ S-N, Badajoz 10071, Spain; [Leo, Francisco M.] Univ Extremadura, Fac Educ, Badajoz, Spain; [Pulido, Juan J.] Univ Extremadura, Fac Sport Sci, C Ave Univ S-N, Badajoz 10071, Spain								17							Sport Sciences	WOS:000418201500010	47	Article; Article		
J	Hortiguela Alcala, David; Hernando Garijo, Alejandra								Teaching Games for Understanding: A Comprehensive Approach to Promote Student's Motivation in Physical Education								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				59	1			17	27		10.1515/hukin-2017-0144			OCT 2017	2017	It seems important to consider students' attitudes towards physical education (PE), and the way they learn sports. The present study examines students' perceptions of motivation and achievement in PE after experiencing three consecutive sport units. Two hundred and thirty seven students from the 1st, 2nd, 3rd, and 4th grade in a high school in Burgos (Spain) and two teachers agreed to participate. They were divided into two groups in order to compare two instructional approaches. The experimental group (A), 128 students, experienced Teaching Games for Understanding (TGfU), while the control group (B), 109 students, experienced a technical-traditional approach. Each group was taught by a different teacher. The study followed a mixed-method research design with quantitative (questionnaire) and qualitative (interview) data. Results revealed that group A showed greater motivation and achievement in PE than group B. Significant differences were found in achievement. Participants with better academic results in group A were more positive in sport participation. Meanwhile, students who practiced more extracurricular sports in group B were more actively involved in sport. Teachers disagreed greatly on the way sport should be taught in PE.		[Hortiguela Alcala, David; Hernando Garijo, Alejandra] Univ Burgos, Fac Educ, Specif Didact Dept, Teaching Corporal Express Area, Burgos, Spain; [Hortiguela Alcala, David] Univ Burgos, Fac Educ, Burgos, Spain								44							Sport Sciences	WOS:000418201500003	31	Article; Article		
J	Harvey, Stephen; Gil-Arias, Alexander; Smith, Megan Lorraine; Smith, Lindsey Rachel								Middle and Elementary School Students' Changes in Self-Determined Motivation in a Basketball Unit Taught using the Tactical Games Model								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				59	1			39	53		10.1515/hukin-2017-0146			OCT 2017	2017	Studies examining student motivation levels suggest that this is a significant factor in students' engagement in physical education and may be positively affected when teachers employ alternative pedagogical models such as game-centered approaches (GCAs). The aim of this study was to investigate changes in self-determined motivation of students as they participated in a GCA-basketball unit taught using the Tactical Games Model (TGM). Participants were 173 students (84 girls), 79 middle school (45 girls) and 94 (39 girls) elementary school students from four seventh and five fourth/fifth grade co-educational classes. Two teachers taught 32 (middle) and 33 (elementary) level one TGM basketball lessons. Need satisfaction and self-determined motivation data were collected using a previously validated instrument, while lesson context and teacher behavior data were recorded using systematic observation instruments. Repeated measures MANOVAs were employed to examine pre-posttest differences. Results revealed a significant main effect for time in need satisfaction for both middle (relatedness increased) and elementary school students (autonomy decreased) and a significant main effect in self-determined motivation for middle school students only (introjected regulation, external regulation, and amotivation all increased). Approximately 48%/42% (middle/elementary) of lesson time was game play, 22%/22% skill practice, 17%/17% management, and 13%/19% knowledge. The primary teacher behaviors used were instruction, management, specific observation, corrective feedback and modelling. Results indicate that it is important for future research to pay greater attention to the contextual factors associated with the application of the TGM, such as the students' previous exposure to TGM lessons, and the teachers' training and experience in utilizing the TGM. Indeed, results of the present study demonstrate that a longer-term commitment to the TGM is necessary to reduce controlling teacher behaviors, which will lead to positive changes in students' need satisfaction and self-determined motivation. Future research is therefore needed to embrace this challenge to provide an increased evidence-base for GCAs such as the TGM.		[Harvey, Stephen] Ohio Univ, Athens, OH 45701 USA; [Gil-Arias, Alexander] Rey Juan Carlos Univ, Madrid, Spain; [Smith, Megan Lorraine] West Virginia Univ, Morgantown, WV 26506 USA; [Smith, Lindsey Rachel] Univ Bedfordshire, Luton, Beds, England; [Harvey, Stephen] Ohio Univ, Patton Coll Educ, Dept Recreat & Sport Pedag, Room 202N,McCracken Hall, Athens, OH 45701 USA								17							Sport Sciences	WOS:000418201500005	54	Article; Article		
J	Malone, Shane; Hughes, Brian; Collins, Kieran D.								Are small-sided games an effective training methodology for improving fitness in hurling players? A comparative study of training methodologies								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				12	5			685	694		10.1177/1747954117727887			OCT 2017	2017	The current investigation compared the effects of specific small-sided games training versus generic continuous aerobic training on team sport related exercise performances. Forty-eight hurling players (age: 25 +/- 6.4 years; height: 180.2 +/- 20.4 cm; mass: 80.5 +/- 3.2 kg; VO2max: 58.78 +/- 3.05 ml.kg.min(-1)) completed either traditional continuous aerobic training (n = 24) or team sport-specific small-sided game training (n = 24), consisting of 4 x 4 min with 3-min active recovery periods completed twice per week. The following outcomes were measured at baseline (pre) and after 10 weeks (post): maximum oxygen uptake (ml.kg(-1).min(-1)), running economy (ml.kg(-1).min(-1)), maximal aerobic speed (km.h(-1)), Yo-Yo intermittent recovery test level 1 (m), Yo-Yo intermittent recovery test level 2 (m), repeated sprint ability (RSA; s), linear sprint speed over 5, 10 and 20m (s) and counter-movement jump performance (cm). Training load was quantified by heart rate and rating of perceived exertion during all training sessions with no significant difference between groups (P = 0.12). Small-sided game (P = 0.002; d = 1.72; likely beneficial) had a likely beneficial effect for improving running economy (ml.kg(-1).min(-1)) in contrast to the unclear effect for continuous training (P = 0.94; d = 0.21; unclear). Small-sided game (P = 0.04; d = 0.80; likely beneficial) had a likely beneficial effect for changes in RSA(b) (s) and RSA(t) (s) with these being in contrast to the likely negative effect for continuous training on similar measures (P = 0.12; d = -2.01; likely negative). Continuous training had a trivial (P=0.72; d=0.30; trivial) effect on Yo-Yo intermittent recovery test level 1 (m) performance in contrast to the likely beneficial effect seen for small-sided game (P = 0.002; d = 1.72; likely beneficial). Small-sided game (P = 0.001; d = 1.69; likely beneficial) resulted in a likely beneficial effect for Yo-Yo intermittent recovery test level 2 (m) performance with a likely negative effect for continuous training (P = 0.004; d = -2.40; likely negative). The current study suggests that small-sided games are a time efficient and effective method of improving fitness characteristics within hurling cohorts.		[Malone, Shane; Hughes, Brian; Collins, Kieran D.] Inst Technol Tallaght, Gael Sports Res Ctr, Dublin, Ireland; [Malone, Shane] Inst Technol Tallaght, Gael Sports Res Ctr, Dublin, Ireland								11							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000412929400016	35	Article; Article		
J	Celik, Onur B.; Ince-Yenilmez, Meltem								Salary differences under the salary cap in Major League Soccer								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				12	5			623	634		10.1177/1747954117727809			OCT 2017	2017	Professional soccer is the world's most popular sport; a number of National Leagues are under the control of National Associations. The economic theory behind soccer is the continuing competition to earn much more than other sports do in the sports market. Since the supply of talent is limited, teams' demand for certain professionals is so strong that it leads to salary differences between players. Therefore, in this study, attention is given to the determinants of the differences in workers' salaries in the Major League Soccer labor market using Generalized Least Squares (GLS) estimation on panel data from 2007 to 2016. Birth place is the most influential determinant of a player's salary, along with a player's position, a player's age, whether the player has a national team duty, and the number of games in which the player started in the first eleven. Conversely, moving from one Major League Soccer team to another and the number of games played as a substitute have a negative effect on players' salaries.		[Celik, Onur B.; Ince-Yenilmez, Meltem] Yasar Univ, Fac Business, Izmir, Turkey; [Celik, Onur B.] Univ Caddesi, 37-39 Bornova, Izmir, Turkey								10							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000412929400009	22	Article; Article		
J	Gillham, Andy; Doscher, Michael; Fitzgerald, Craig; Bennett, Scott; Davis, Adam; Banwarth, Adam								Strength and conditioning roundtable: Strength and conditioning coach evaluation								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				12	5			635	646		10.1177/1747954117707484			OCT 2017	2017	Evaluation is a necessary component of nearly every job and strength and conditioning coaches are no exception. However, the utility of that evaluation seems likely to vary tremendously across the sporting landscape. The literature is lacking information on how strength and conditioning coaches are evaluated. Therefore, the purpose of this project was to solicit responses from head strength and conditioning coaches regarding their experiences with evaluation of their work. Five coaches representing competitive levels from high school to professional American football responded to a series of 11 questions about evaluations and assessments. Their answers were more diverse than similar and combined to present a picture of evaluation that is entirely inconsistent and muddled.		[Gillham, Andy] Ludus Consulting LLC, 2609 W 33rd ST, Sioux Falls, SD 57105 USA; [Doscher, Michael] Valdosta State Univ, Valdosta, GA USA; [Fitzgerald, Craig] Houston Texans, Houston, TX USA; [Bennett, Scott] Radford Univ, Radford, VA 24142 USA; [Davis, Adam] Univ Tulsa, Tulsa, OK 74104 USA; [Banwarth, Adam] Trinity Episcopal Sch, Richmond, VA USA; [Gillham, Andy] Ludus Consulting LLC, 2609 W 33rd ST, Sioux Falls, SD 57105 USA								10							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000412929400010	32	Article; Article		
J	Eckel, Taran L.; Watkins, Casey M.; Archer, David C.; Wong, Megan A.; Arevalo, Jose A.; Lin, Anne; Coburn, Jared W.; Galpin, Andrew J.; Brown, Lee E.								Bench press and pushup repetitions to failure with equated load								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				12	5			647	652		10.1177/1747954117733879			OCT 2017	2017	The bench press and pushup are commonly used for training upper body muscular strength and endurance. Although they are often used interchangeably, differences between the two relative to body mass load are unknown. Furthermore, sex differences may exist due to anthropometric body mass specificity. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the relationship between the pushup and bench press when performing repetitions to failure with an equated load. On day 1, 25 recreationally trained subjects (16 men, age = 23.00 +/- 2.36 years, height = 178.19 +/- 9.61 cm, mass = 74.80 +/- 13.44 kg; 9 women, age = 23.11 +/- 2.71 years, height = 160.78 +/- 5.95 cm, mass = 53.63 +/- 5.60 kg), performed a one repetition maximum bench press and an isometric pushup on a force plate to determine bodyweight load supported in both the up and down positions. Grip width on the bench press was measured as the distance between middle fingers and was used for hand placement during pushups. For the down position, a safety squat device was placed on the right triceps to signal that the upper arms were parallel to the ground, while for the up position, triceps were perpendicular to the floor. Days 2 and 3 consisted of performing repetitions to failure for either the bench press or pushup exercise with a load that was equal to the average relative bodyweight force of the up and down pushup positions. For the pushup, subjects followed a 60 beats per minute tempo and the test was terminated if they failed to complete a full repetition; they could not maintain cadence or there were three faults in form. For the bench press, they followed the same 60s tempo and the test was terminated if they failed to complete a full repetition or could not maintain cadence. A 2 (exercise: bench press, pushup) x 2 (sex: men, women) mixed factor ANOVA demonstrated no interaction, but there were significant (P < 0.05) main effects for exercise and sex where more repetitions were performed in the pushup (19.36 +/- 11.68 reps) than the bench press (11.40 +/- 8.38 reps) exercise. Also, men performed significantly more repetitions to failure (men = 20.22 +/- 8.20 reps, women = 6.78 +/- 5.69 reps). For combined sexes, there was a significant (P<0.05), strong relationship (r = 0.82) between bench press and pushup repetitions to failure. For men, there was a significant (P < 0.05), strong relationship (r = 0.81), while for women, there was a moderate relationship (r = 0.76). Men had significantly (P < 0.05) greater bench press one repetition maximum (men = 99.29 +/- 23.98 kg, women=42.17 +/- 8.88 kg), percentage of body mass supported as an average of the up and down positions (men = 74.33 +/- 2.57%, women = 69.70 +/- 2.63%) and bench press one repetition maximum relative to their body mass (men=1.32 +/- 0.22%, women = 0.79 +/- 0.13%). The bench press and pushup are two distinct upper body exercises for repetitions to failure due to upper body musculature and body position sex differences. Choice of the pushup or bench press exercise should be based on training goal and sex.		[Eckel, Taran L.; Watkins, Casey M.; Archer, David C.; Wong, Megan A.; Arevalo, Jose A.; Lin, Anne; Coburn, Jared W.; Galpin, Andrew J.; Brown, Lee E.] Calif State Univ Fullerton, Dept Kinesiol, 800 N State Coll Blvd, Fullerton, CA 92831 USA; [Brown, Lee E.] Calif State Univ Fullerton, Dept Kinesiol, 800 N State Coll Blvd, Fullerton, CA 92831 USA								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000412929400011	23	Article; Article		
J	Bednarczuk, Grzegorz; Molik, Bartosz; Morgulec-Adamowicz, Natalia; Kosmol, Andrzej; Wiszomirska, Ida; Rutkowska, Izabela; Perkowski, Krzysztof								Static balance of visually impaired paralympic goalball players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				12	5			611	617		10.1177/1747954117727791			OCT 2017	2017	Proper body balance plays a significant role in performing motor skills and it depends upon a number of factors. Its level decreases when the reception of visual stimuli is limited. It may affect the choice of sports activities as well as overall performance. This study sought to assess the levels of selected static balance indices in visually impaired goalball players. Competitors who took part in the goalball tournament of the 2012 London Paralympic Games were included in the study (M = 42, F = 23). The athletes were divided into groups taking into account tournament level, disability experience, training experience and training loads. Static balance was assessed using AMTI AccuSway stabilographic platform (ACS Model). The study participants performed the following tests: standing on both feet with eyes open and closed (30s, single left- and right-leg stance with eyes open, single left- and right-leg stance with eyes closed (10s). The significance of differences between groups in gender, disability experience, tournament level, training loads and starting class was assessed using Mann-Whitney U test. Significant differences were noted between competitors from teams participating in the preliminary and final rounds and between competitors with training experience of up to and above 10 years. Players participating in the final phase presented a higher level of static balance, but those with longer training experience lower than less experienced athletes. No significant differences were observed in the levels of the analysed variables between males and females and within starting classes. The study revealed the significance of static balance in achieving sporting excellence in goalball.		[Bednarczuk, Grzegorz; Molik, Bartosz; Morgulec-Adamowicz, Natalia; Kosmol, Andrzej; Wiszomirska, Ida; Rutkowska, Izabela] Jozef Pilsudski Univ Phys Educ Warsaw, Fac Rehabil, Marymoncka 34, PL-00968 Warsaw 45, Poland; [Perkowski, Krzysztof] Jozef Pilsudski Univ Phys Educ Warsaw, Fac Phys Educ, Warsaw, Poland; [Bednarczuk, Grzegorz] Jozef Pilsudski Univ Phys Educ Warsaw, Fac Rehabil, Marymoncka 34, PL-00968 Warsaw 45, Poland								19							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000412929400007	38	Article; Article		
J	Timmerman, Ewout A.; Farrow, Damian; Savelsbergh, Geert J. P.								The effect of manipulating task constraints on game performance in youth field hockey								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				12	5			588	594		10.1177/1747954117727659			OCT 2017	2017	The purpose of this study was to examine the influence of manipulating game constraints on match performance in youth field hockey. A total of 25 participants aged 10.6-14.6 years old played four different 25-min games where density (228 m(2) or 158 m(2) per player) and/or number of players (11 per side or 8 per side) was manipulated. Match performance was determined by using notational analysis and physical demands were determined by using GPS analyses. Manipulating the number of players led to an increase in a successful passes (+2.68 passes), skilled actions (+3.73 skilled actions) and successful actions (+3.77 successful actions) performed per player and also created a more advantageous environment to enhance decision making. Increasing the density led to a decrease in unsuccessful dribbles (-0.59 unsuccessful dribbles) made by players and an increase in high intensity running (+38 m) and sprinting (+21.2 m). The findings of this study provide an insight into the effect of manipulating task constraints in skilled junior field hockey and the findings highlight that all types of constraints influence emergent performance in their unique way and that coaches should consider these interactions to promote specific playing behaviour.		[Timmerman, Ewout A.; Farrow, Damian] Victoria Univ, Inst Sport Exercise & Act Living, Ballarat Rd, Footscray, Vic 3011, Australia; [Timmerman, Ewout A.] Hockey Australia, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Farrow, Damian] Australian Inst Sport, Movement Sci, Belconnen, ACT, Australia; [Savelsbergh, Geert J. P.] Vrije Univ Amsterdam, Fac Human Movement Sci, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Savelsbergh, Geert J. P.] Univ Profess Educ, Acad Phys Educ, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Timmerman, Ewout A.] Victoria Univ, Inst Sport Exercise & Act Living, Ballarat Rd, Footscray, Vic 3011, Australia								31							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000412929400004	24	Article; Article		
J	Allen, Justine B.; Morris, Rhiannon; Dimeo, Paul; Robinson, Leigh								Precipitating or prohibiting factor: Coaches' perceptions of their role and actions in anti-doping								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				12	5			577	587		10.1177/1747954117727653			OCT 2017	2017	Coaches are frequently cited as potentially precipitating or preventing athletes' engagement in doping. However, little is known about coaches' perspectives. Therefore, the purpose of this study was to examine coaches' perceptions of their role and actions in athletes' anti-doping behaviour. Twenty-three coaches (M = 17, F = 6) working with performance athletes in Scotland participated in semi-structured interviews where topics related to doping and anti-doping were discussed. Thematic analysis, guided by Schon's role frame and reflective conversation concepts, was used to develop themes. Analysis led to the development of four internal role frame themes: clean sport value, approach to preparation and performance, responsibility to athletes and knowledge; and five boundary role frame themes: Scottish/British sporting culture, potential for benefit, prevalence of doping and testing, clarity of responsibilities and consequences, and beyond coaches' control. The coaches' role frame supported an anti-doping stance, but, it also presented a risk and was insufficient to ensure action. Analysis of coaches' reflective conversations revealed the issues set by the coaches differed and influenced subsequent actions and evaluations.		[Allen, Justine B.; Morris, Rhiannon; Dimeo, Paul; Robinson, Leigh] Univ Stirling, Fac Hlth Sci & Sport, Stirling FK9 4LA, Scotland; [Allen, Justine B.] Univ Stirling, Fac Hlth Sci & Sport, Stirling FK9 4LA, Scotland								20							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000412929400003	29	Article; Article		
J	Camire, Martin; Rocchi, Meredith; Kendellen, Kelsey								A comparative analysis of physical education and non-physical education teachers who coach high school sport teams								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				12	5			557	564		10.1177/1747954117727629			OCT 2017	2017	Although high school sport in Canada has traditionally been an extracurricular activity overseen by physical education teachers, recent findings demonstrate how the majority (n=1677, 60%) of coaches are in fact non-physical education teachers. The purpose of the present study was to compare physical education and non-physical education teachers who coach high school sport teams. A national sample of 2890 Canadian high school teacher-coaches (males=1967, 68%) from all 10 provinces and 3 territories responded to an online survey. Significant differences were found between physical education teacher-coaches and non-physical education teacher-coaches in terms of demographic variables, perceived teacher-coach benefits, and perceived coaching efficacy, whereby physical education teacher-coaches tended to have more favorable perceptions. Based on the results, access to coach education should be facilitated, particularly for non-physical education teacher coaches.		[Camire, Martin; Kendellen, Kelsey] Univ Ottawa, Sch Human Kinet, 125 Univ Private, Ottawa, ON K1N 6N5, Canada; [Rocchi, Meredith] Univ Ottawa, Sch Psychol, Ottawa, ON, Canada; [Camire, Martin] Univ Ottawa, Sch Human Kinet, 125 Univ Private, Ottawa, ON K1N 6N5, Canada								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000412929400001	29	Article; Article		
J	Altepeter, Mary; Mike, Jonathan								Snatch Balance Technique								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				39	5			82	88		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000311			OCT 2017	2017	THE SNATCH BALANCE IS A TOTAL-BODY STRENGTH AND POWER EXERCISE THAT CAN BE PROGRAMMED IN SEVERAL WAYS, DEPENDING ON THE ABILITY OF THE ATHLETE AND JUDGMENT BY THE COACH. THIS LIFT CAN BE USED IN A PROGRESSION TOWARD LEARNING THE FULL SNATCH, USED TO HELP ATHLETES STRUGGLING WITH TECHNIQUE PATTERNS AND POSITIONAL STRENGTH IN THE FULL SNATCH, OR USED IN PLACE OF THE FULL SNATCH TO ELICIT POWER, STRENGTH, AND SPEED DEVELOPMENT. VARIATIONS OF OLYMPIC-STYLE LIFTS ARE ADVANTAGEOUS FOR TRAINING TOTAL-BODY EXPLOSIVE STRENGTH AND POWER BUT HAVE LESS TECHNICAL COMPLEXITY THAN THE FULL LIFTS. SPECIFICALLY, THE SNATCH BALANCE REQUIRES THE ATHLETE TO GENERATE FORCE INTO THE GROUND, PERFORM RAPID TRIPLE EXTENSION AT THE HIPS, KNEES, AND ANKLES TO PRESS THE BARBELL OVERHEAD, AND CATCH THE BARBELL IN AN OVERHEAD SQUAT POSITION.		[Altepeter, Mary; Mike, Jonathan] Lindenwood Univ, Sch Hlth Sci, St Charles, MO 63301 USA; [Mike, Jonathan] Lindenwood Univ, Sch Hlth Sci, St Charles, MO 63301 USA								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:000412168400011	15	Article; Article		
J	Handy, Richard, Jr.; Kerksick, Chad								Reverse Lunge With Single-Arm Kettlebell Overhead Press								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				39	5			89	93		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000313			OCT 2017	2017	THE REVERSE LUNGE WITH SINGLE-ARM KETTLEBELL OVERHEAD PRESS IS A GROUND-BASED EXERCISE THAT CHALLENGES THE FRONTAL AND SAGITTAL PLANES. INCORPORATION OF THE MOVEMENT CAN AID IN DEVELOPING STRENGTH AND POWER WHILE ALSO REDUCING INJURY RISK. THIS ARTICLE WILL DISCUSS THE MUSCLES ACTIVATED, PROPER EXERCISE TECHNIQUE, BENEFITS, AND ITS PRACTICAL APPLICATION.		[Handy, Richard, Jr.; Kerksick, Chad] Lindenwood Univ, Sch Hlth Sci, Dept Exercise Sci, Human Performance Program, St Charles, MO 63301 USA; [Handy, Richard, Jr.] Lindenwood Univ, Sch Hlth Sci, Dept Exercise Sci, Human Performance Program, St Charles, MO 63301 USA								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:000412168400012	14	Article; Article		
J	Campbell, Bill I.; Bove, Daniel; Ward, Patrick; Vargas, Andres; Dolan, Jeff								Quantification of Training Load and Training Response for Improving Athletic Performance								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				39	5			3	13		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000334			OCT 2017	2017	One important responsibility of a strength and conditioning coach is the development of a training program that enhances physiological qualities, with the goal of improving athletic performance. To achieve this goal, coaches design training programs that successfully appropriate and manage training volume and intensity during the athlete's offseason, preseason, and in-season periods. By quantifying training loads and responses, coaches can better prescribe training stimuli while also managing stress levels. Athlete-monitoring strategies provide a way for strength coaches to gather useful information regarding training demands and athlete fatigue.		[Campbell, Bill I.; Bove, Daniel; Vargas, Andres; Dolan, Jeff] Univ S Florida, Exercise Sci Program, Tampa, FL 33620 USA; [Ward, Patrick] Seattle Seahawks, Seattle, WA USA; [Campbell, Bill I.] Univ S Florida, Exercise Sci Program, Tampa, FL 33620 USA								24							Sport Sciences	WOS:000412168400002	72	Article; Article		
J	Piper, Timothy J.; Paulsen, Trevor D.; Black, Laurie; Brees, Taryn N.; Schulte, Jefree J.								Meniere's Disease: An Overview and Training Considerations								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				39	5			51	57		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000326			OCT 2017	2017	Meniere's disease is a chronic disorder that affects hearing and balance. Currently, 615,000 individuals in the united states suffer from meniere's disease, yet there is little information related to specific training methods or practices. This article will address the identification, management process, training recommendations, and considerations for this unique population.		[Piper, Timothy J.; Black, Laurie; Brees, Taryn N.] Western Illinois Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Macomb, IL 61455 USA; [Paulsen, Trevor D.] Arkansas State Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Jonesboro, AR USA; [Schulte, Jefree J.] Univ Chicago Med, Dept Pathol, Chicago, IL USA; [Piper, Timothy J.] Western Illinois Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Macomb, IL 61455 USA								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:000412168400008	33	Article; Article		
J	Fourie, Johan; Santana-Gallego, Maria								The Invisible Hand of Thierry Henry: How World Cup Qualification Influences Host Country Tourist Arrivals								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				18	7			750	766		10.1177/1527002515596433			OCT 2017	2017	This article highlights an aspect of mega-events that has been neglected: the changing composition of tourist arrivals during and after the event. The change happens because, in the FIFA World Cup, a quota of countries participate from each continent and this opens up new tourism markets. We show that the 2010 FIFA World Cup in South Africa had a smaller growth effect on South Africa's traditional tourism markets but attracted a large increase from nontraditional ones. However, the size of the effect, we find, is partly due to randomness: It depends on match results in the qualification phase of the tournament. We use a new long-run data set of tourism flows to South Africa and a gravity model for tourism flows and run counterfactual examples of play-off matches during the qualification phase to estimate how much more South Africa could have benefited had larger or richer countries qualified. We conclude that the random results of a few play-off games significantly affect the extent to which the World Cup benefits the host country's economy.		[Fourie, Johan] Stellenbosch Univ, Dept Econ, Private Bag X1, ZA-7602 Matieland, Stelllenbosch, South Africa; [Santana-Gallego, Maria] Univ Balearic Isl, Dept Appl Econ, Palma De Mallorca, Spain; [Fourie, Johan] Stellenbosch Univ, Dept Econ, Private Bag X1, ZA-7602 Matieland, Stelllenbosch, South Africa								10							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000410993400006	27	Article; Article		
J	Brown, Alasdair; Yang, Fuyu								Have Betting Exchanges Corrupted Horse Racing?								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				18	7			673	697		10.1177/1527002515595267			OCT 2017	2017	Betting exchanges allow punters to bet on a horse to lose a race. This, many argue, has opened up the sport to a new form of corruption, where races will be deliberately lost in order to profit from betting. We examine whether anecdotal evidence of the fixing of horses to loseof which there are many examplesis indicative of wider corruption. Following a forensic economics approach, we build an asymmetric information model of exchange betting and take it to betting data on 9,560 races run in 2013/2014. We find no evidence of the widespread corruption of horse racing by the betting exchanges.		[Brown, Alasdair; Yang, Fuyu] Univ East Anglia, Sch Econ, Arts Bldg, Norwich NR4 7TJ, Norfolk, England; [Brown, Alasdair] Univ East Anglia, Sch Econ, Arts Bldg, Norwich NR4 7TJ, Norfolk, England								0							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000410993400002	15	Article; Article		
J	Boudreaux, Christopher J.; Sanders, Shane D.; Walia, Bhavneet								A Natural Experiment to Determine the Crowd Effect Upon Home Court Advantage								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				18	7			737	749		10.1177/1527002515595842			OCT 2017	2017	Spectator effects represent a central concept in (behavioral) sports economics. A thorough understanding of the phenomenon promises to further our understanding as to the nature of performance production under pressure. In traditional home advantage studies, it is difficult to isolate the net crowd effect upon relative team performance. In a typical sports setting, multiple factors change at once for a visiting team. Experimental evidence suggests that supportive crowds may hinder task performance. In that it serves as home stadium to two National Basketball Association teams, the Staples Center in Los Angeles offers a rare natural experiment through which to isolate the crowd effect upon competitive output. Each team possesses equivalent familiarity with built environment, and teams face similarly sparse travel demands prior to games between one another. However, the team designated as home team in a contest enjoys a largely sympathetic crowd due primarily to season ticket sales. Moreover, crowd effects are sizable in motivating a home team win, raising the likelihood of such an event by between an estimated 21 and 22.8 percentage points. The point estimate implies that essentially the entire home advantage between the two teams is attributable to the crowd effect.		[Boudreaux, Christopher J.] Texas A&M Int Univ, Div Int Banking & Finance, 5201 Univ Blvd,WHTC 217c, Laredo, TX 78041 USA; [Sanders, Shane D.; Walia, Bhavneet] Western Illinois Univ, Dept Econ & Decis Sci, Macomb, IL 61455 USA; [Boudreaux, Christopher J.] Texas A&M Int Univ, Div Int Banking & Finance, 5201 Univ Blvd,WHTC 217c, Laredo, TX 78041 USA								41							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000410993400005	31	Article; Article		
J	Smith, Laura J.; Creps, James R.; Bean, Ryan; Rodda, Becky; Alsalaheen, Bara								Performance of high school male athletes on the Functional Movement Screen™								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				27				17	23		10.1016/j.ptsp.2017.07.001			SEP 2017	2017	Objectives: (1) Describe the performance of the Functional Movement Screen (TM) (FMS (TM)) by reporting the proportion of adolescents with a score of <14 and the frequency of asymmetries in a cross-sectional sample; (2) explore associations between FMS (TM) to age and body mass, and explore the construct validity of the FMS (TM) against common postural stability measures; (3) examine the inter-rater and test-retest reliability of the FMS (TM) in adolescents. Design: Cross-sectional. Setting: Field-setting. Participants: 94 male high-school athletes. Main outcome measure: The FMS (TM), Y-Balance Test (YBT) and Balance Error Scoring System (BESS). Results: The median FMS (TM) composite score was 16 (9-21), 33% of participants scored below the suggested injury risk cutoff composite score of <= 14, and 62.8% had at least one asymmetry. No relationship was observed between the FMS (TM) to common static/dynamic balance tests. The inter-rater reliability of the FMS (TM) composite score suggested good reliability (ICC = 0.88, CI 95%:0.77, 0.94) and test-retest reliability for FMS (TM) composite scores was good with ICC = 0.83 (CI 95%:0.56, 0.95). Conclusions: FMS (TM) results should be interpreted cautiously with attention to the asymmetries identified during the screen, regardless of composite score. The lack of relationship between the FMS (TM) and other balance measures supports the notion that multiple screening tests should be used in order to provide a comprehensive picture of the adolescent athlete. (C) 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Smith, Laura J.; Creps, James R.; Bean, Ryan; Rodda, Becky; Alsalaheen, Bara] Univ Michigan, 2157 William S White Bldg,303 E Kearsley St, Flint, MI 48502 USA; [Smith, Laura J.] Univ Michigan, Phys Therapy Dept, Orthoped Residency & Certificate Program, 2157 William S White Bldg,303 E Kearsley St, Flint, MI 48502 USA								18							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000411851900004	40	Article; Article		
J	Murphy, Myles; Charlesworth, Jonathon; Koh, Eamon								The effects of Botulinum Toxin injection in an elite sportsman with Functional Popliteal Artery Entrapment Syndrome: A case report								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				27				7	11		10.1016/j.ptsp.2017.06.002			SEP 2017	2017	Background: Botulinum Toxin-A (BoNT-A) is an effective intervention for Functional Popliteal Artery Entrapment Syndrome (FPAES) however, concerns with this intervention include reductions in strength and performance. Case report: This case presents an elite male athlete with FPAES who underwent BoNT-A injection and the results of testing before and after injection. The athlete experienced a decrease in strength and performance at one week post-injection however, he returned to baseline levels within four weeks. When comparing sprint distance during games, before and after injection, the athlete had an increase in his sprint distance per game post-injection. Finally on ultrasound he had visible medial gastrocnemius denervation atrophy with a decrease in arterial flow velocity at four weeks post-injection. Conclusion: BoNT-A may be an effective minimally invasive treatment option for FPAES however, athletes may experience a transient decrease in function following BoNT-A injection and consequently caution must be taken with regard to treatment timing. (C) 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Murphy, Myles] Univ Notre Dame Australia, Sch Physiotherapy, Fremantle, WA, Australia; [Murphy, Myles; Charlesworth, Jonathon] St John God Hlth Care, SportsMed Subiaco, Subiaco, WA, Australia; [Koh, Eamon] Envis Med Imaging, Wembley, WA, Australia; [Murphy, Myles] Western Australian Cricket Assoc, High Performance Dept, East Perth, WA, Australia; [Murphy, Myles] Univ Notre Dame Australia, Sch Physiotherapy, Fremantle, WA, Australia								5							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000411851900002	21	Article; Article		
J	Stoeggl, Roland; Mueller, Erich; Stoeggl, Thomas								Do Maximal Roller Skiing Speed and Double Poling Performance Predict Youth Cross-Country Skiing Performance?								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				16	3			383	390					SEP 2017	2017	The aims of the current study were to analyze whether specific roller skiing tests and cycle length are determinants of youth cross-country (XC) skiing performance, and to evaluate sex specific differences by applying non-invasive diagnostics. Forty-nine young XC skiers (33 boys; 13.8 +/- 0.6 yrs and 16 girls; 13.4 +/- 0.9 yrs) performed roller skiing tests consisting of both shorter (50 m) and longer durations (575 m). Test results were correlated with on snow XC skiing performance (P-XC) based on 3 skating and 3 classical distance competitions (3 to 6 km). The main findings of the current study were: 1) Anthropometrics and maturity status were related to boys', but not to girls' P-XC; 2) Significant moderate to acceptable correlations between girls' and boys' short duration maximal roller skiing speed (double poling, V2 skating, leg skating) and P-XC were found; 3) Boys' P-XC was best predicted by double poling test performance on flat and uphill, while girls' performance was mainly predicted by uphill double poling test performance; 4) When controlling for maturity offset, boys' P-XC was still highly associated with the roller skiing tests. The use of simple non-invasive roller skiing tests for determination of P-XC represents practicable support for ski clubs, schools or skiing federations in the guidance and evaluation of young talent.		[Stoeggl, Roland; Mueller, Erich; Stoeggl, Thomas] Univ Salzburg, Dept Sport Sci & Kinesiol, Salzburg, Austria; [Stoeggl, Roland] Salzburg Univ EducationStefan Zweig, Salzburg, Austria; [Stoeggl, Roland] Nord Ski Middle Sch Saalfelden, Salzburg, Austria; [Stoeggl, Roland] Schigymnasium Saalfelden, Salzburg, Austria; [Stoeggl, Roland] Univ Salzburg, Dept Sport Sci & Kinesiol, Salzburg, Austria								7							Sport Sciences	WOS:000407360500011	34	Article; Article		
J	Grasten, Arto; Watt, Anthony								A Motivational Model of Physical Education and Links to Enjoyment, Knowledge, Performance, Total Physical Activity and Body Mass Index								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				16	3			318	327					SEP 2017	2017	The present paper examined the full sequence of the Hierarchical Model of Motivation in physical education (PE) including motivational climate, basic psychological needs, intrinsic motivation, and related links to contextual enjoyment, knowledge, performance, and total moderate to vigorous physical activity (MVPA). Gender differences and correlations with body mass index (BMI) were also analyzed. Cross-sectional data was represented by self-reports and objective assessments of 770 middle school students (52% of girls) in North-East Finland. The results showed that task-involving climate in girls' PE classes was related to enjoyment and knowledge through physical competence and intrinsic motivation, whereas task-involving climate was associated with enjoyment and knowledge via competence and autonomy, and total MVPA via autonomy, intrinsic motivation, and knowledge within boys. This may indicate that girls and boys perceive PE classes in a different way. Graded PE assessments appeared to be essential in motivating both girls and boys to participate in greater total MVPA, whereas BMI was negatively linked with competence and social relatedness only among girls. Although, the current and previous empirical findings supported task-involving teaching methods in PE, in some cases, ego-involving climate should be considered. Therefore, both task-and egoinvolving teaching practices can be useful ways of developing preferred behaviors in PE classes.		[Grasten, Arto] Univ Tasmania, Fac Educ, Locked Bag 1307, Launceston, Tas, Australia; [Watt, Anthony] Victoria Univ, Coll Arts & Educ, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Grasten, Arto] Univ Tasmania, Fac Educ, Locked Bag 1307, Launceston, Tas, Australia								53							Sport Sciences	WOS:000407360500003	45	Article; Article		
J	Johnstone, James A.; Hughes, Gerwyn; Mitchell, Andrew C.; Ford, Paul A.; Watson, Tim; Duffield, Rob; Gordon, Dan; Roberts, Justin D.; Garrett, Andrew T.								Accelerometery and Heart Rate Responses of Professional Fast-Medium Bowlers in One-Day and Multi-Day Cricket								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				16	3			311	317					SEP 2017	2017	The physical demands of fast-medium bowling are increasingly being recognised, yet comparative exploration of the differing demands between competitive formats (i.e. one-day [OD] versus multi-day [MD] matches) remain minimal. The aim of this study was to describe in-match physiological profiles of professional fast-medium bowlers from England across different versions of competitive matches using a multivariable wearable monitoring device. Seven professional cricket fast-medium bowlers wore the Bioharness (TM) monitoring device during matches, over three seasons (>80 hours in-match). Heart Rate (HR) and Acceleromety (ACC) was compared across match types (OD, MD) and different in-match activity states (Bowling, Between over bowling, Fielding). Peak acceleration during OD bowling was significantly higher in comparison to MD cricket ([OD vs. MD] 234.1 +/- 57.9 vs 226.6 +/- 32.9 ct.episode(-1), p < 0.05, ES = 0.11-0.30). Data for ACC were also higher during OD than MD fielding activities (p < 0.01, ES = 0.11-.30). OD bowling stimulated higher mean HR responses (143 +/- 14 vs 137 +/- 16 beats.min(-1), p < 0.05, ES = 0.21) when compared to MD matches. This increase in OD cricket was evident for both between over (129 +/- 9 vs 120 +/- 13 beats.min(-1), p < 0.01, ES = 0.11-0.50) and during fielding (115 +/- 12 vs 106 +/- 12 beats.min(-1), p < 0.01, ES = 0.36) activity. The increased HR and ACC evident in OD matches suggest greater acute physical loads than MD formats. Therefore, use of wearable technology and the findings provided give a valuable appreciation of the differences in match loads, and thus required physiological preparation and recovery in fast-medium bowlers.		[Johnstone, James A.; Gordon, Dan; Roberts, Justin D.] Anglia Ruskin Univ, Cambridge Ctr Sport & Exercise Sci, Cambridge, England; [Hughes, Gerwyn; Watson, Tim] Univ San Francisco, Dept Kinesiol, San Francisco, CA 94117 USA; [Mitchell, Andrew C.] Univ Bedfordshire, Sch Sport Sci & Phys Act, Luton, Beds, England; [Ford, Paul A.] British Olymp Assoc, London, England; [Duffield, Rob] Univ Technol Sydney, Fac Hlth, Sport & Exercise Discipline Grp, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Garrett, Andrew T.] Univ Hull, Dept Sport Hlth & Exercise, Kingston Upon Hull, N Humberside, England; [Johnstone, James A.] Anglia Ruskin Univ, Cambridge Ctr Sport & Exercise Sci, Dept Sport & Exercise Sci, Cambridge CB1 1PT, England								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:000407360500002	25	Article; Article		
J	Hoppe, Matthias Wilhelm; Baumgart, Christian; Slomka, Mirko; Polglaze, Ted; Freiwald, Juergen								Variability of Metabolic Power Data in Elite Soccer Players During Pre-Season Matches								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				58	1			233	245		10.1515/hukin-2017-0083			SEP 2017	2017	This study aimed to determine the within-subject variability of GPS-derived metabolic power data in elite soccer players across several pre-season matches and compare the variability of high metabolic power, velocity, acceleration and deceleration running. Additionally, differences in metabolic power data among playing positions and relationships with various physical abilities were also investigated. Metabolic power data from 12 outfield starting players competing in the German Bundesliga were collected during five pre-season matches using GPS-technology (10 Hz). The players were also tested for speed, agility, power and intermittent endurance. Variability of global metabolic power data such as energy expenditure (CV = 2.2-7.0%) was lower than that for high-intensity including time = 20 W.kg(-1) (CV = 14.0-26.2%). Variability of high metabolic power (>= 20 W.kg(-1); CV = 14.1 +/- 3.5%) was comparable to that of high velocity (>= 15.5 km.h(-)1; CV = 17.0 +/- 6.2%), acceleration (>= 3 m +/- s(-2); CV = 11.1 +/- 5.1%) and deceleration running (<=-3 m.s(-2); CV = 11.9 +/- 4.5%) (p > 0.05, ES < 0.2). Defenders had a largely higher overall energy expenditure than midfielders and attackers (p < 0.01, ES > 0.6). Overall energy expenditure and cost were largely to very largely correlated with 5 m speed and 22 m agility sprint time and counter movement jump height (r = -0.70-0.69, p < 0.05). The detected variability indicates that global GPS-derived metabolic power data in elite soccer players from a single preseason match should be preferably used for practical applications. Contrary, high-intensity indicators should be interpreted cautiously and repeated match observations are recommended to establish meaningful high-intensity profiles of the players. Differences among playing positions and relationships with explosive physical abilities indicate that metabolic power analyses can provide new insights into the mechanics and energetics of soccer.		[Hoppe, Matthias Wilhelm; Baumgart, Christian; Freiwald, Juergen] Univ Wuppertal, Dept Movement & Training Sci, Fuhlrottstasse 10, D-42119 Wuppertal, Germany; [Slomka, Mirko] FC Schalke 04, Hannover, Germany; [Slomka, Mirko] Hannover 96, Hannover, Germany; [Slomka, Mirko] Hamburger SV, Hannover, Germany; [Polglaze, Ted] Univ Western Australia, Sch Sport Sci Exercise & Hlth, Perth, WA, Australia; [Hoppe, Matthias Wilhelm] Univ Wuppertal, Dept Movement & Training Sci, Fuhlrottstasse 10, D-42119 Wuppertal, Germany								28							Sport Sciences	WOS:000407005600022	43	Article; Article		
J	Negra, Yassine; Chaabene, Helmi; Amara, Samiha; Jaric, Slobodan; Hammami, Mehrez; Hachana, Younes								Evaluation of the Illinois Change of Direction Test in Youth Elite Soccer Players of Different Age								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				58	1			215	224		10.1515/hukin-2017-0079			SEP 2017	2017	Change of direction ability is an essential pre-requisite in team sports athletes. The Illinois change of direction test has been routinely used for testing change of direction ability in soccer players. The aim of the present study was to evaluate the Illinois change of direction test in young elite soccer players in terms of its reliability, usefulness and relationship with body size. A total of one hundred and ninety-four male, national-level soccer players were recruited. They were classified into four age groups (U-8, U-10, U-12 and U-14). Participants were tested using the Illinois change of direction test twice, and basic indices of body size were obtained. The Illinois change of direction scores showed high relative and absolute reliability in all age groups (all intraclass correlation coefficients were >0.91, and the standard error of measurement was <5%). The usefulness analysis showed that the Illinois change of direction test could detect small changes in performance in the U-10 and U-12 groups. However, it could only detect moderate changes in performance in the U-8 and U-14 groups. Although the Illinois change of direction test detected significant performance differences among groups, scores were not significantly related to body size (-0.30<r< 0.15; p > 0.05). Taking into account the test's high reliability and the appropriate level of usefulness, these results might support the use of the Illinois change of direction test as a standard measure for quantifying change of direction ability in young soccer players.		[Negra, Yassine; Hammami, Mehrez; Hachana, Younes] Higher Inst Sport & Phys Educ Ksar Said, Res Unit Sport Performance Hlth & Soc, Tunis, Tunisia; [Chaabene, Helmi] Natl Ctr Med & Sci Sports CNMSS, Tunisian Res Lab Sports Performance Optimizat, Tunis, Tunisia; [Chaabene, Helmi] Univ Jendouba, High Inst Sports & Phys Educ, Kef, Tunisia; [Amara, Samiha; Hachana, Younes] Manouba Univ, Higher Inst Sports & Phys Educ, Tunis, Tunisia; [Jaric, Slobodan] Univ Delaware, Dept Kinesiol & Appl Physiol, Newark, DE 19716 USA; [Jaric, Slobodan] Univ Delaware, Biomech & Movement Sci Grad Program, Newark, DE 19716 USA; [Jaric, Slobodan] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ, Dept Human Motor Behav, Katowice, Poland; [Jaric, Slobodan] Univ Belgrade, Fac Sport & Phys Educ, Belgrade, Serbia; [Chaabene, Helmi] Natl Ctr Med & Sci Sports CNMSS, Tunisian Res Lab Sports Performance Optimizat, Tunis, Tunisia; [Chaabene, Helmi] Univ Jendouba, High Inst Sports & Phys Educ, Kef, Tunisia; [Chaabene, Helmi] APP E28,Residence El Walid 2, Aghba 2087, Tunisia								23							Sport Sciences	WOS:000407005600020	40	Article; Article		
J	Lopes, Charles Ricardo; Aoki, Marcelo Saldanha; Crisp, Alex Harley; de Mattos, Rene Scarpari; Lins, Miguel Alves; da Mota, Gustavo Ribeiro; Schoenfeld, Brad Jon; Marchetti, Paulo Henrique								The Effect of Different Resistance Training Load Schemes on Strength and Body Composition in Trained Men								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				58	1			177	186		10.1515/hukin-2017-0081			SEP 2017	2017	The purpose of this study was to evaluate the impact of moderate-load (10 RM) and low-load (20 RM) resistance training schemes on maximal strength and body composition. Sixteen resistance-trained men were randomly assigned to 1 of 2 groups: a moderate-load group (n = 8) or a low-load group (n = 8). The resistance training schemes consisted of 8 exercises performed 4 times per week for 6 weeks. In order to equate the number of repetitions performed by each group, the moderate load group performed 6 sets of 10 RM, while the low load group performed 3 sets of 20 RM. Between-group differences were evaluated using a 2-way ANOVA and independent t-tests. There was no difference in the weekly total load lifted (sets x reps x kg) between the 2 groups. Both groups equally improved maximal strength and measures of body composition after 6 weeks of resistance training, with no significant between-group differences detected. In conclusion, both moderate-load and low-load resistance training schemes, similar for the total load lifted, induced a similar improvement in maximal strength and body composition in resistance-trained men.		[Lopes, Charles Ricardo; Crisp, Alex Harley] Methodist Univ Piracicaba UNIMEP Piracicaba, Human Performance Res Grp, Piracicaba, SP, Brazil; [Aoki, Marcelo Saldanha; de Mattos, Rene Scarpari; Lins, Miguel Alves] Univ Sao Paulo, Sch Arts Sci & Humanities, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [da Mota, Gustavo Ribeiro] Univ Fed Triangulo Mineiro, Dept Sports Sci, Postgrad Program Phys Educ, Uberaba, MG, Brazil; [Schoenfeld, Brad Jon] CUNY Lehman Coll, Dept Hlth Sci, Bronx, NY USA; [Lopes, Charles Ricardo] Adventist Fac Hortolandia UNASP, Hortolandia, SP, Brazil; [Marchetti, Paulo Henrique] Calif State Univ Northridge, Dept Kinesiol, Northridge, CA 91330 USA; [Lopes, Charles Ricardo] Methodist Univ Piracicaba UNIMEP, Campus Taquaral Rodovia Acucar,Km 156 S-N, Pitacicaba, SP, Brazil								17							Sport Sciences	WOS:000407005600016	40	Article; Article		
J	Rosas, Fabian; Ramirez-Campillo, Rodrigo; Martinez, Cristian; Caniuqueo, Alexis; Canas-Jamet, Rodrigo; McCrudden, Emma; Meylan, Cesar; Moran, Jason; Nakamura, Fabio Y.; Pereira, Lucas A.; Loturco, Irineu; Diaz, Daniela; Izquierdo, Mikel								Effects of Plyometric Training and Beta-Alanine Supplementation on Maximal-Intensity Exercise and Endurance in Female Soccer Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				58	1			99	109		10.1515/hukin-2017-0072			SEP 2017	2017	Plyometric training and beta-alanine supplementation are common among soccer players, although its combined use had never been tested. Therefore, a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial was conducted to compare the effects of a plyometric training program, with or without beta-alanine supplementation, on maximal-intensity and endurance performance in female soccer players during an in-season training period. Athletes (23.7 +/- 2.4 years) were assigned to either a plyometric training group receiving a placebo (PLACEBO, n = 8), a plyometric training group receiving beta-alanine supplementation (BA, n = 8), or a control group receiving placebo without following a plyometric training program (CONTROL, n = 9). Athletes were evaluated for single and repeated jumps and sprints, endurance, and change-of-direction speed performance before and after the intervention. Both plyometric training groups improved in explosive jumping (ES = 0.27 to 1.0), sprinting (ES = 0.31 to 0.78), repeated sprinting (ES = 0.39 to 0.91), 60 s repeated jumping (ES = 0.32 to 0.45), endurance (ES = 0.35 to 0.37), and change-of-direction speed performance (ES = 0.36 to 0.58), whereas no significant changes were observed for the CONTROL group. Nevertheless, compared to the CONTROL group, only the BA group showed greater improvements in endurance, repeated sprinting and repeated jumping performances. It was concluded that beta-alanine supplementation during plyometric training may add further adaptive changes related to endurance, repeated sprinting and jumping ability.		[Rosas, Fabian] Rosas Buenos Aires Sport Club, Buenos Aires, DF, Argentina; [Ramirez-Campillo, Rodrigo; Diaz, Daniela] Univ Los Lagos, Dept Phys Act Sci Res Nucleus Hlth Phys Act & Spo, Osorno, Chile; [Ramirez-Campillo, Rodrigo] MEDS Clin, Lab Exercise Sci, Santiago, Chile; [Martinez, Cristian] Univ La Frontera, Dept Phys Educ Sport & Recreat, Temuco, Chile; [Caniuqueo, Alexis] Univ Autonoma Chile, Lab Physiol & Biomech, Temuco, Chile; [Canas-Jamet, Rodrigo] Univ Andres Bello, Fac Biol Sci, Dept Biol Sci, Lab Physiol, Vina Del Mar, Chile; [Canas-Jamet, Rodrigo] Movement Solut, Lab Exercise Sci, Vina Del Mar, Chile; [McCrudden, Emma; Meylan, Cesar] Canadian Sport Inst Pacific, Vancouver, BC, Canada; [Meylan, Cesar] Canadian Soccer Assoc, Ottawa, ON, Canada; [Moran, Jason] Univ Essex, Sch Biol Sci, Ctr Sports & Exercise Sci, Colchester, Essex, England; [Nakamura, Fabio Y.] James Cook Univ, Coll Healthcare Sci, Townsville, Qld, Australia; [Nakamura, Fabio Y.] G DAnnunzio Univ Chieti Pescara, Dept Med & Aging Sci, Chieti, Italy; [Pereira, Lucas A.; Loturco, Irineu] Nucleus High Performance Sport NAR, Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil; [Izquierdo, Mikel] Santo Tomas Univ, Fac Phys Culture Sport & Recreat, Bogota, DC, Colombia; [Izquierdo, Mikel] Univ Publ Navarra, Dept Hlth Sci, Campus Tudela,Av Tarazona S-N, Tudela 31500, Navarra, Spain; [Izquierdo, Mikel] Univ Publ Navarra, Dept Hlth Sci, Campus Tudela,Av Tarazona S-N, Tudela 31500, Navarra, Spain								50							Sport Sciences	WOS:000407005600009	38	Article; Article		
J	Giannopoulos, Nikiforos; Vagenas, George; Noutsos, Konstantinos; Barzouka, Karolina; Bergeles, Nikolaos								Somatotype, Level of Competition, and Performance in Attack in Elite Male Volleyball								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				58	1			131	140		10.1515/hukin-2017-0082			SEP 2017	2017	This study investigated the relationship between somatotype, level of competition, and performance in attack in elite level male volleyball players. The objective was to test for the potential covariation of competition level (Division A1 vs. A2) and playing position (hitters vs. centers vs. opposites) considering performance in attack. Anthropometric, body composition and somatotype variables were measured according to the Heath-Carter method. The attack actions of 144 players from 48 volleyball matches were analyzed and their performance was rated using a 5-point numerical scale. Results showed that players of Division A1 were taller, heavier, more muscular, and less endomorphic compared to those of Division A2. MANOVA and follow-up discriminant function analysis revealed somatotype differences among playing positions with centers and opposites being endomorph-ectomorph and hitters being central. Centers performed constantly better than hitters and opposites regardless of the division and somatotype. Multiple linear regression analysis showed that variables defining ectomorph and endomorph players, centers, and players of Division A1 significantly determined the relative performance superiority and were able to explain the variation in performance by almost 25%. These results could be taken into account by coaches when assigning players to particular playing positions or when designing individualized position-specific training programs.		[Giannopoulos, Nikiforos; Noutsos, Konstantinos; Barzouka, Karolina; Bergeles, Nikolaos] Univ Athens, Sch Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Dept Sport Games, Athens, Greece; [Vagenas, George] Univ Athens, Sch Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Dept Theoret Sci, Sports Stat, Athens, Greece; [Giannopoulos, Nikiforos] Univ Athens, Sch Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Fac Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Dept Sport Games, Ethnikis Antistasis 41, Athens 17237, Greece								23							Sport Sciences	WOS:000407005600012	29	Article; Article		
J	Leonska-Duniec, Agata; Jastrzebski, Zbigniew; Zarebska, Aleksandra; Smolka, Wojciech; Cieszczyk, Pawel								Impact of the Polymorphism Near <i>MC4R</i> (rs17782313) on Obesity- and Metabolic-Related Traits in Women Participating in an Aerobic Training Program								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				58	1			111	119		10.1515/hukin-2017-0073			SEP 2017	2017	The C/T polymorphism (rs17782313) mapped 188 kb downstream of the melanocortin-4 receptor gene (MC4R) shows a strong relationship with an increased body mass index (BMI) and the risk of type 2 diabetes. However, the information on polymorphism's potential modifying effect on obesity-and metabolic-related traits achieved through training is still unknown. Therefore, we decided to check if selected body measurements observed in physically active participants would be modulated by the genotype. The genotype distribution was examined in a group of 201 Polish women measured for chosen traits before and after the completion of a 12 week moderate-intensive aerobic training program. A statistically significant relationship between the glucose level and the genotype was identified (p = 0.046). Participants with CC and CT genotypes had a higher glucose level during the entire study period compared with the TT genotype. However, our results did not confirm the relationship between the C allele and an increased BMI or other obesity-related traits. Additionally, we did not observe a near MC4R C/T polymorphism x physical activity interaction. However, our results revealed that majority of obesity-related variables changed significantly during the 12 week training program. The effect sizes (d) of these changes ranged from small to medium (d = 0.11-0.80), whereas the largest effect (d = 0.80; i.e. medium) was reported for the fat mass content (FM). We found a relationship between the near MC4R C/T polymorphism and an increased glucose level, and it is thus a candidate to influence type 2 diabetes. Interestingly, after the 12 week training program, participants with the C (risk) allele with fasting hyperglycemia had a normal glucose level. Although, this change was not statistically significant, it shows an important trend which needs further investigation.		[Leonska-Duniec, Agata] Univ Szczecin, Fac Phys Culture & Hlth Promot, Piastow 40B,Blok 6, PL-71065 Szczecin, Poland; [Jastrzebski, Zbigniew; Zarebska, Aleksandra] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, Fac Tourism & Recreat, Gdansk, Poland; [Smolka, Wojciech] Med Univ Silesia, Sch Med Katowice, Clin Dept Laryngol, Katowice, Poland; [Cieszczyk, Pawel] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, Fac Phys Educ, Gdansk, Poland; [Leonska-Duniec, Agata] Univ Szczecin, Fac Phys Culture & Hlth Promot, Piastow 40B,Blok 6, PL-71065 Szczecin, Poland								16							Sport Sciences	WOS:000407005600010	26	Article; Article		
J	Sherwin, Ian A.; Kenny, Ian C.								Putting movement and performance outcome using standard, belly and long putters								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				12	4			532	539		10.1177/1747954117717880			AUG 2017	2017	In golf, play on the green has a large impact on final score and a great amount of time is spent on coaching and practice greens to improve putting performance. The study purpose was to measure putting outcome performance when different length putters were used with an anchoring mechanism. Seventy-two skilled golfers each executed a total of 60 putts using standard, belly and long putters from two distances. Putting mechanics were assessed using SAM PuttLab. From 1.83m (6ft) participants holed 80.3% of putts with a standard length putter, dropping to 78.6 and 75.3% for belly and long-handled putters. At 3.66m (12ft) participants holed 51.7% of putts with a standard length putter, and 50.8 and 46.9% for belly and long-handled putters. Shot performance showed no significant differences between or within clubs. There were significant (p<0.05) but small effect size between-club differences for swing time, putter head rotation and putter face impact spot. Results show that while anchoring may reduce putter head rotation it does not prevent rotation. It has been ascertained for a large cohort of different handicap golfers not accustomed to using longer putters that using an anchored putter will not necessarily provide a scoring advantage over using a standard putter without an anchoring system. Practice may better focus on the individual golfer's specific technical weaknesses identified by the performer or by a coach.		[Sherwin, Ian A.; Kenny, Ian C.] Univ Limerick, Biomech Res Unit, Limerick, Ireland; [Kenny, Ian C.] Univ Limerick, Biomech Res Unit, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Limerick, Ireland								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000407468100018	19	Article; Article		
J	Lachaume, Charles-Mathieu; Trudeau, Francois; Lemoyne, Jean								Energy expenditure by elite midget male ice hockey players in small-sided games								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				12	4			504	513		10.1177/1747954117718075			AUG 2017	2017	The purpose of this study was to investigate the energy expenditure and heart rate responses elicited in elite male midget ice hockey players during small-sided games. Nine players (aged 15.89 +/- 0.33 years) participated in the study. Maximal progressive treadmill testing in the laboratory measured the relationship of oxygen consumption (<mml:mover>V</mml:mover>O2) to heart rate before on-ice assessments of heart rate during six different small-sided games: 1v1, 2v2, 2v2 with support player, 3v3 with support player, 3v3 with transitions, and 4v4 with two support players. Heart rate was recorded continuously in each game. 3v3 T small-sided game was the most intense for all four intensity markers. All six small-sided games reached 89% HRmax or more with heart rate peaks in active effort repetition. These findings demonstrate that such small-sided games are considered as high intensity games and are an effective training method for ice hockey players.		Univ Quebec Trois Rivieres, Dept Human Kinet, Appl Hlth Interdisciplinary Res Grp, Trois Rivieres, PQ, Canada; Univ Quebec Trois Rivieres, Exercise Physiol Lab, Trois Rivieres, PQ, Canada; [Trudeau, Francois] Univ Quebec Trois Rivieres, Dept Sci Act Phys, 3351 Boul Forges,CP 500, Trois Rivieres, PQ G9A 5H7, Canada								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000407468100015	30	Article; Article		
J	Mell, Florian; Saury, Jacques; Feliu, Francois; L'Hermette, Maxime; Seifert, Ludovic								What does the questioning of expert coaches reveal about the biomechanical knowledge of forward ice hockey skating?								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				12	4			461	469		10.1177/1747954117718076			AUG 2017	2017	Coaches and scientists share a preoccupation with understanding athletic performance. The aim of this study was to investigate coaches' practical knowledge about forward ice hockey skating with reference to the biomechanical research findings in order to improve understanding of the skating task and encourage the design of more representative research. For this purpose, 10 expert ice hockey coaches were interviewed. Semistructured interviews were transcribed and meanings units were selected and grouped to build the main categories after verbatim analysis. The qualitative analysis revealed that the coaches detailed forward skating based on three categories: posture, lower limb kinematics, and arm movements. They used performance indicators to specify their practical knowledge. These indicators were generally consistent with recent biomechanical research and when the coaches held different opinions, they expressed intuitive ideas that often suggested new research perspectives. This study illustrates how the interaction of scientists and coaches, via their respective knowledge, can supply new research perspectives.		[Mell, Florian; L'Hermette, Maxime; Seifert, Ludovic] Univ Rouen Normandy, CETAPS Lab, Mont St Aignan, France; [Saury, Jacques] Nantes Univ, Lab Movement Interact Performance, Nantes, France; [Feliu, Francois] Univ Rouen Normandy, Lab DySoLa, Mont St Aignan, France; [Mell, Florian] CETAPS Lab, Blvd Siegfried, F-76821 Mont St Aignan, France								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000407468100011	29	Article; Article		
J	Maffetone, Philip B.; Laursen, Paul B.								Reductions in training load and dietary carbohydrates help restore health and improve performance in an Ironman triathlete								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				12	4			514	519		10.1177/1747954117717873			AUG 2017	2017	While most endurance athletes and coaches recommend higher training loads and high-carbohydrate low-fat diets, some studies report benefits of lower intensity training for performance improvements and a low-carbohydrate high-fat eating plan. We present the case of a 38-year-old female professional/elite Ironman triathlete who presented with decreased performances, alongside severe gastrointestinal distress, excess fatigue, and severe daytime hunger. Training load was reduced from 30 to 18h before a gradual increase to 24h. Dietary recommendations included reducing carbohydrate and increasing dietary fat intake. Over a six-week period, daily carbohydrate content was gradually decreased from 73% (475g) to 12% (78g) of total calories, while fat content increased from 14% (40g) to 75% (217g), and protein levels remained constant at 13% (85g). Within two months, the athlete reported increased perception of daily energy during and between training sessions, less perceived hunger and fatigue, and reduced need for daytime naps. Cycling power output increased by 20W and run pace increased (12-15skm(-1)) at the same training heart rate (141 beat min(-1)), and with the exception of water, nutrition was no longer required during long duration training (approximate to 4h). Race calories consumed were reduced from approximate to 400kcalh(-1) in previous years to approximate to 175, 145, and 130kcalh(-1) over the course of the next three Ironman events. Signs and symptoms of gastrointestinal stress ceased to occur, and two of three races were personal best times, with the final event completed in 8h 52min. We conclude that reducing training load, and dietary carbohydrates and increasing dietary fat, markedly improved a variety of health functions, reduced exogenous nutrient requirements during training and racing, and increased performance in an elite triathlete.		[Laursen, Paul B.] AUT Univ, SPRINZ, Auckland, New Zealand; [Laursen, Paul B.] High Performance Sport New Zealand, POB 302 563, Auckland 0751, New Zealand; [Laursen, Paul B.] High Performance Sport New Zealand, POB 302 563, Auckland 0751, New Zealand								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000407468100016	29	Article; Article		
J	Ziel, Erica; Smith, Katie M.								Guidelines and Practical Tips for Training the Prenatal Client								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				39	4			55	63		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000320			AUG 2017	2017	PRENATAL AEROBIC AND RESISTANCE TRAINING CAN HAVE TREMENDOUS BENEFITS FOR MOTHER AND CHILD, IMPROVING DELIVERY AND POSTPARTUM RECOVERY. DAILY MOVEMENTS TO ENCOURAGE DEEP CORE STRENGTHENING, EMPHASIZING THE IMPORTANCE OF POSTURE, AND AVOIDING EXERCISES THAT CAUSE DISCOMFORT MAY MINIMIZE COMMON AILMENTS OF PREGNANCY MEANWHILE IMPROVING MOBILITY OF DAILY FUNCTION. A VIDEO ABSTRACT OF THIS ARTICLE CAN BE FOUND IN VIDEO, SUPPLEMENTAL DIGITAL CONTENT 1, HTTP://LINKS.LWW.COM/SCJ/A218.		[Ziel, Erica] Knocked Fitness & Core Athlet Inc, Ankeny, IA USA; [Smith, Katie M.] Simpson Coll, Dept Sport Sci & Hlth Educ, Indianola, IA 50125 USA; [Smith, Katie M.] Simpson Coll, Dept Sport Sci & Hlth Educ, Indianola, IA 50125 USA								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:000406931100008	20	Article; Article		
J	Martinez, Daniel B.								Consideration for Power and Capacity in Volleyball Vertical Jump Performance								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				39	4			36	48		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000297			AUG 2017	2017	CONSIDERATION FOR THE VOLLEYBALL ATHLETE'S DEVELOPMENT OF JUMPING POWER AND CAPACITY MUST BE PROVIDED TO ENSURE THESE QUALITIES ARE EFFECTIVELY AND EFFICIENTLY MEASURED AND INTEGRATED INTO PERFORMANCE. VERTICAL JUMP IN VOLLEYBALL IS A COMPLEX BIOMECHANICAL AND PHYSIOLOGICAL QUALITY AND TESTING THIS QUALITY NEEDS TO BE VALID, RELIABLE, AND INDICATE KEY PERFORMANCE CHARACTERISTICS. MONITORING THESE CHARACTERISTICS REQUIRES PRECISE COORDINATION ACROSS DEVELOPMENT. FURTHERMORE, SPORT AND STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING PROGRAMS' ORGANIZATION IS CRITICAL BECAUSE OF GENERAL AND SPECIFIC CONSTRAINTS WITHIN THE TEAM AND ATHLETE DEVELOPMENT FRAMEWORK. FOR A VIDEO ABSTRACT OF THIS ARTICLE, SEE SUPPLEMENTAL DIGITAL CONTENT 1, (SEE VIDEO, HTTP://LINKS.LWW.COM/SCJ/A205).		[Martinez, Daniel B.] Edith Cowan Univ, Sch Exercise Sci & Hlth, Perth, WA, Australia; [Martinez, Daniel B.] Edith Cowan Univ, Sch Exercise Sci & Hlth, Perth, WA, Australia								25							Sport Sciences	WOS:000406931100006	40	Article; Article		
J	Lockie, Robert G.; Moreno, Matthew R.								The Close-Grip Bench Press								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				39	4			30	35		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000307			AUG 2017	2017	THE CLOSE-GRIP BENCH PRESS HAS RECEIVED LIMITED ANALYSIS IN THE PROFESSIONAL LITERATURE. THEREFORE, THIS ARTICLE WILL REVIEW THE EXISTING LITERATURE THAT DOCUMENTS THE TECHNIQUE, MUSCLE ACTIVATION CHANGES THAT OCCUR WHEN PERFORMING THIS EXERCISE, AND THE RESULTING IMPLICATIONS. THIS RELATES TO POTENTIAL HYPERTROPHY AND STRENGTH ADAPTATIONS THAT MAY RESULT FOR MUSCLES INVOLVED IN ELBOW EXTENSION (E.G., TRICEPS BRACHII) AND ARM FLEXION (E.G., PECTORALIS MAJOR), AS WELL AS SPORT-SPECIFIC POWER ADAPTATIONS. THE BENEFITS OF USING A CLOSER GRIP DURING THE BENCH PRESS FOR CERTAIN INDIVIDUALS WILL BE ACKNOWLEDGED. LAST, THE EXECUTION OF THIS EXERCISE (STARTING POSITION, BAR DESCENT, AND BAR ASCENT) WILL BE DETAILED.		[Lockie, Robert G.] Calif State Univ Fullerton, Dept Kinesiol, Fullerton, CA 92634 USA; [Moreno, Matthew R.] Calif State Univ Northridge, Dept Kinesiol, Northridge, CA 91330 USA; [Lockie, Robert G.] Calif State Univ Fullerton, Dept Kinesiol, Fullerton, CA 92634 USA								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:000406931100005	43	Article; Article		
J	Potter, Shelby; Boyd, Joni M.								Bridging the Performance Gap: Interdisciplinary Collaboration With Sports Dietitians								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				39	4			4	9		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000296			AUG 2017	2017	ATHLETES AND COACHES ARE AWARE OF THE IMPORTANCE OF ADEQUATE NUTRITION FOR ATHLETIC PERFORMANCE; HOWEVER, MOST LACK ADEQUATE NUTRITION KNOWLEDGE. ATHLETES EXPRESS INTEREST IN LEARNING MORE ABOUT NUTRITION FOR PERFORMANCE BUT CONSISTENTLY CONSULT SOURCES WITH LITTLE NUTRITION KNOWLEDGE. SPORTS DIETITIANS CAN ASSIST ATHLETES IN MEETING NUTRITION NEEDS BUT ARE OFTEN UNDERUTILIZED FOR ATHLETIC PERFORMANCE. THIS ARTICLE DISCUSSES THE CURRENT NEEDS OF ATHLETES, DIFFERENCES IN NUTRITION TITLES, CURRENT STATE OF SPORTS DIETITIANS, AND THE BENEFIT OF USING A SPORTS DIETITIAN.		[Potter, Shelby] Wilson Med Ctr, Food Serv, Wilson, NC USA; [Potter, Shelby] Wilson Med Ctr, Nutr Serv, Wilson, NC USA; Winthrop Univ, Dept Phys Educ Sport & Human Performance, Rock Hill, SC 29733 USA								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:000406931100002	28	Article; Article		
J	Thomas, Christopher; Comfort, Paul; Jones, Paul A.; Dos'Santos, Thomas								Strength and Conditioning for Netball: A Needs Analysis and Training Recommendations								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				39	4			10	21		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000287			AUG 2017	2017	THERE IS A LACK OF STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING RESEARCH INTO THE DEMANDS AND THE SPECIFIC AREAS OF DEVELOPMENT REQUIRED TO OPTIMIZE PERFORMANCE AND REDUCE THE RISK OF COMMON INJURIES IN FEMALE NETBALL ATHLETES. NETBALL IS PREDOMINANTLY ANAEROBIC, CHARACTERIZED BY FREQUENT HIGH-INTENSITY MOVEMENTS THAT REQUIRE HIGH LEVELS OF STRENGTH, POWER, AND LOWER LIMB CONTROL. HOWEVER, THERE IS LIMITED RESEARCH IN THE PREPARATION OF FEMALE NETBALL PLAYERS FOR TRAINING AND COMPETITION. IN THIS REVIEW, WE PRESENT THE PHYSIOLOGICAL DEMANDS OF TRAINING AND COMPETITION, COMMON CAUSES OF INJURY, AND STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING TRAINING RECOMMENDATIONS TO ENHANCE PERFORMANCE AND REDUCE THE LIKELIHOOD OF INJURY IN FEMALE NETBALL PLAYERS.		[Thomas, Christopher; Comfort, Paul; Jones, Paul A.; Dos'Santos, Thomas] Univ Salford, Directorate Sport Exercise & Physiotherapy, Salford, Greater Manches, England; [Thomas, Christopher] Univ Salford, Directorate Sport Exercise & Physiotherapy, Salford, Greater Manches, England								32							Sport Sciences	WOS:000406931100003	99	Article; Article		
J	Murofushi, Koji; Babbitt, Donald; Ohta, Ken								Supplemental Exercises for Core Stability Which Utilize the Concept of Parametric Oscillation in the Hammer Throw								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				39	4			71	81		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000299			AUG 2017	2017	TRAINING FOR THE HAMMER THROW HAS TRADITIONALLY BEEN SEPARATED INTO 2 PARTS. THE PRIMARY TRAINING METHOD IS THROWING OF THE HAMMER, WHEREAS THE SECONDARY/SUPPLEMENTARY METHOD INVOLVES VARIOUS STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING EXERCISES TO IMPROVE THE ATHLETE'S FITNESS LEVELS FOR THROWING PERFORMANCE. THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SPECIAL STABILITY EXERCISES IN THE WEIGHT ROOM THAT USE THE PRINCIPLE OF PARAMETRIC OSCILLATION FOUND IN THE HAMMER THROW MAY BE AN EFFECTIVE WAY TO ENHANCE STABILIZATION SKILLS THAT MAY POTENTIALLY OPTIMIZE HAMMER THROWING PERFORMANCE. THESE ADVANCED MIDSECTION EXERCISES ALSO MIGHT PLAY A ROLE IN INJURY PREVENTION. FOR A VIDEO ABSTRACT OF THIS ARTICLE SEE SUPPLEMENTAL DIGITAL CONTENT 1 (SEE VIDEO, HTTP://LINKS.LWW.COM/SCJ/A206).		[Murofushi, Koji] Tokyo Med & Dent Univ, Dept Sport Sci, Natl Univ Corp, Tokyo, Japan; [Babbitt, Donald] Univ Georgia, Athlet Assoc, Athens, GA 30602 USA; [Ohta, Ken] Inst Syst Informat Technol & Nanotechnol, Fukuoka, Japan; [Babbitt, Donald] Univ Georgia, Athlet Assoc, Athens, GA 30602 USA								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:000406931100010	24	Article; Article		
J	Gearity, Brian; Moore, E. Whitney G.								National Strength and Conditioning Association's Endorsement of the National Collegiate Athletic Association Sport Science Institute's "Mental Health Best Practices: Inter-Association Consensus Document: Best Practices for Understanding and Supporting Student-Athlete Mental Wellness"								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				39	4			1	3		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000314			AUG 2017	2017	COLLEGIATE ATHLETES EXPERIENCE UNIQUE AND SIGNIFICANT STRESSORS THAT REQUIRE AN INFORMED, TEAM APPROACH TO SUPPORTING THEIR MENTAL HEALTH. AS INTEGRAL MEMBERS OF THE SUPPORT TEAM RESPONSIBLE FOR COLLEGIATE ATHLETES' HEALTH AND WELLBEING, STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING PROFESSIONALS SHOULD UNDERSTAND MENTAL HEALTH BEST PRACTICES AND APPLY THEM WITHIN THEIR SCOPE OF PRACTICE. THUS, THE NATIONAL STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING ASSOCIATION ENDORSES THE NATIONAL COLLEGIATE ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION'S DOCUMENT ENTITLED, "MENTAL HEALTH BEST PRACTICES: INTER-ASSOCIATION CONSENSUS DOCUMENT: BEST PRACTICES FOR UNDERSTANDING AND SUPPORTING STUDENT-ATHLETE MENTAL WELLNESS." THE FOLLOWING PROVIDES A BRIEF REVIEW OF THIS DOCUMENT AND ITS IMPLICATIONS FOR STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING PROFESSIONALS.		[Gearity, Brian] Univ Denver, Grad Sch Profess Psychol, Denver, CO USA; [Moore, E. Whitney G.] Wayne State Univ, Div Kinesiol Hlth & Sport Studies, Detroit, MI USA; [Gearity, Brian] Univ Denver, Grad Sch Profess Psychol, Denver, CO USA								7							Sport Sciences	WOS:000406931100001	0	Article; Article		
J	Depken, Craig A., II; Hood, Matthew; King, Ernest								Consistency and Momentum in NASCAR								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				18	6			601	621		10.1177/1527002515590441			AUG 2017	2017	Conventional wisdom in sports is that consistency is praiseworthy and that competitors should seek momentum. A small standard deviation is the simplest measure of consistency, and a positive autocorrelation is the simplest measure of momentum. With these statistical definitions, we find that consistency is predictable for Sprint Cup drivers, but momentum is not. Simulating seasons, we find consistency reduces the variability in season-ending performances and momentum increases them. Since drivers are ordinarily seeking unlikely occurrences, consistency is harmful and momentum is beneficial. Thus, consistency is obtainable but not desirable, and momentum is desirable but not obtainable in National Association for Stock Car Auto Racing.		[Depken, Craig A., II] Univ North Carolina Charlotte, Econ, Charlotte, NC USA; [Hood, Matthew] Texas State Univ, McCoy Coll Business Adm, Dept Finance & Econ, 601 Univ Dr, San Marcos, TX 78666 USA; [King, Ernest] Univ Southern Mississippi, Business Eth, Hattiesburg, MS USA; [Hood, Matthew] Texas State Univ, McCoy Coll Business Adm, Dept Finance & Econ, 601 Univ Dr, San Marcos, TX 78666 USA								4							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000405517800004	20	Article; Article		
J	Hlasny, Vladimir; Kolaric, Sascha								Catch Me If You Can: Referee-Team Relationships and Disciplinary Cautions in Football								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				18	6			560	591		10.1177/1527002515588955			AUG 2017	2017	The central hypothesis of this study is that relationships develop systematically between referees and teams and affect referees' decisions. Referees' travel distance to respective stadiums and count of matches refereed for respective teams are used to measure long-term relationships. We find some evidence that the count of referee-team interactions affects disciplinary cautions in lower divisions of the English Football League. This is less evident in higher divisions where, however, distances between referees' hometowns and stadiums appear to play a role. The influence of distance further increases with the extent of referees' experience with the respective teams.		[Hlasny, Vladimir] Ewha Womans Univ, Dept Econ, 401 Ewha Posco Bldg, Seoul 120750, South Korea; [Kolaric, Sascha] Tech Univ Darmstadt, Dept Business Adm Econ & Law, Darmstadt, Germany; [Hlasny, Vladimir] Ewha Womans Univ, Dept Econ, 401 Ewha Posco Bldg, Seoul 120750, South Korea								14							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000405517800002	26	Article; Article		
J	Rossi, Denise Martineli; Morcelli, Mary Hellen; Cardozo, Adalgiso Coscrato; Denadai, Benedito Sergio; Goncalves, Mauro; Navega, Marcelo Tavella								Rate of force development and muscle activation of trunk muscles in women with and without low back pain: A case-control study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				26				41	48		10.1016/j.ptsp.2016.12.007			JUL 2017	2017	Objective: To evaluate the rate of force development (RFD) and the rate of electromyography rise (RER) of global and local trunk muscles in women with and without low back pain. Design: Cross-sectional study. Setting: Laboratory setting. Participants: Twenty-eight women divided into low back pain (LBP, n = 14) and control groups (CG, n = 14) participated in this study. Main outcome measures: Subjects performed isometric contractions of trunk using an isokinetic dynamometer, and simultaneously the electromyography (EMG) signals were collected for global (rectus abdominis and longissimus thoracic) and local (internal oblique and multifidus) muscles. All variables were calculated using Matlab software. Results: Symptomatic subjects showed lower RFD during trunk extension and it was correlated to a reduced RER mainly in the trunk extensor musculature (p < 0.05). During trunk flexion, LBP exhibited a delayed time to reach peak RFD (p < 0.05) compared to CG. RER for global anterior muscle was higher than for local muscle (p < 0.05) and it was more persistent in asymptomatic women. CG also presented greater activation amplitude for both agonist and antagonist trunk muscles, mainly the global ones. Conclusion: Symptomatic women showed lower RFD and it was correlated to a reduced capacity of rapid muscle activation mainly in the trunk extensor musculature. (C) 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Rossi, Denise Martineli] Univ Sao Paulo, Ribeirao Preto Med Sch, Dept Biomech Med & Rehabil Locomotor, Bandeirantes Ave 3900, BR-14049900 Ribeirao Preto, SP, Brazil; [Morcelli, Mary Hellen; Navega, Marcelo Tavella] Sao Paulo State Univ, Dept Phys Therapy & Occupat Therapy, Marilia, SP, Brazil; [Cardozo, Adalgiso Coscrato; Denadai, Benedito Sergio; Goncalves, Mauro] Sao Paulo State Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Rio Claro, SP, Brazil; [Rossi, Denise Martineli] Univ Sao Paulo, Ribeirao Preto Med Sch, Dept Biomech Med & Rehabil Locomotor, Bandeirantes Ave 3900, BR-14049900 Ribeirao Preto, SP, Brazil								9							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000406725000007	34	Article; Article		
J	Cale-Benzoor, Maya; Maenhout, Annelies; Arnon, Michal; Tenenbaum, Gershon; Werrin, Mia; Cools, Ann								Quality assessment of shoulder plyometric exercises: Examining the relationship to scapular muscle activity								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				26				27	34		10.1016/j.ptsp.2017.05.002			JUL 2017	2017	Objectives: The purpose of the study was to evaluate performance quality of shoulder plyometric exercises, and examine the relationship to scapular muscle activation during an intense exercise bout. Design: Observational study. Setting: University laboratory. Participants: 32 healthy university students (male/female: 14/18) volunteers. Main outcome measures: Subjects performed 10 plyometric exercises. Surface EMG of upper (UT), middle (MT) and lower (LT) trapezius and serratus anterior (SA) was registered. A quality assessment questionnaire was administered at the beginning and end of the exercise bout. Muscle activation at the beginning and end was evaluated by t-test. Mixed repeated measures ANOVA was conducted to test the effects of criterion-quality, time, muscles, exercises, and their interactions. Results: Increased EMG activation was noted in 34/40 cases, (21/40 significant (p < 0.05) changes). Quality assessment revealed a decline in the ability to maintain initial position (43% of subjects), failure to keep a consistent and symmetrical arc of motion (62% of subjects), and performance with trick movements (48% of subjects). Inability to keep a consistent arc of motion was significant in 4 exercises. Conclusions: The novel questionnaire may aid quality assessment during plyometric exercises. Ability to keep a consistent arc of motion was the most sensitive marker of decline of performance quality. (C) 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Cale-Benzoor, Maya] Wingate Inst Phys Educ & Sports, Ribstein Ctr Sports Med & Res, IL-42902 Netanya, Israel; [Cale-Benzoor, Maya] Univ Haifa, Fac Social Welf & Hlth Sci, Phys Therapy Dept, Abba Hushi 199, IL-3498838 Haifa, Israel; [Maenhout, Annelies; Werrin, Mia; Cools, Ann] Univ Ghent, Dept Rehabil Med & Physiotherapy, Campus Heymans,De Pintelaan 185, B-9000 Ghent, Belgium; [Arnon, Michal] Wingate Inst Phys Educ & Sports, Zinman Coll Phys Educ & Sport Sci, IL-42902 Netanya, Israel; [Tenenbaum, Gershon] Florida State Univ, Dept Educ Psychol & Learning Syst, Tallahassee, FL 32306 USA; [Cale-Benzoor, Maya] 34 Vitkin St, IL-34755 Haifa, Israel								1							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000406725000005	33	Article; Article		
J	Jeong, Hyo-Jung; Cynn, Heon-Seock; Yi, Chung-Hwi; Yoon, Jang-Whon; Lee, Ji-Hyun; Yoon, Tae-Lim; Kim, Bo-Been								Stretching position can affect levator scapular muscle activity, length, and cervical range of motion in people with a shortened levator scapulae								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				26				13	19		10.1016/j.ptsp.2017.04.001			JUL 2017	2017	Objectives: Levator scapulae (LS) muscle stretching exercises are a common method of lengthening a shortened muscle; however, the appropriate stretching position for lengthening the LS in people with a shortened LS remains unclear. The purpose of this study was to compare the effects of different stretching exercise positions on the LS and introduce effective stretching exercise methods to clinicians. Participants: Twenty-four university students (12 men, 12 women) with a shortened LS were recruited. Methods: LS muscle activity, LS index (LSI), and cervical range of motion (ROM) were measured pre (baseline) and post three different stretching exercise positions (sitting, quadruped, and prone). Results: The LSI and cervical ROM exceeded the minimal detectable change and had significant changes. The LSI was greater in the sitting position than at the baseline (p = 0.01), quadruped position (p < 0.01); the LSI in the prone position presented a higher increase than the quadruped position (p = 0.01). The cervical ROM increased in the sitting position when compared to the baseline (p < 0.01) and quadruped position (p < 0.01). Conclusions: Stretching the LS in the sitting position was the most effective exercise for improving LS muscle length and cervical ROM. (C) 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Jeong, Hyo-Jung] Washington Univ, Movement Sci Program, Program Phys Therapy, Sch Med, 4444 Forest Pk Ave,Suite 1101, St Louis, MO 63108 USA; [Cynn, Heon-Seock; Lee, Ji-Hyun; Kim, Bo-Been] Yonsei Univ, Grad Sch, Dept Phys Therapy, Appl Kinesiol & Ergon Technol Lab, Baekwoon Kwan 1, Wonju, Gangwon Do, South Korea; [Yi, Chung-Hwi] Yonsei Univ, Coll Hlth Sci, Dept Phys Therapy, 1 Yonseidae Gil, Wonju, Gangwon Do, South Korea; [Yoon, Jang-Whon] Hoseo Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Art & Technol Bldg,79 Hoseoro, Asan, Chungnam, South Korea; [Yoon, Tae-Lim] Cheongju Univ, Coll Hlth Sci, Dept Phys Therapy, 298 Daeseongro, Cheongju, Chungbuk, South Korea; [Cynn, Heon-Seock] Yonsei Univ, Grad Sch, Dept Phys Therapy, Appl Kinesiol & Ergon Technol Lab, Baekwoon Kwan 1, Wonju, Gangwon Do, South Korea								4							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000406725000003	31	Article; Article		
J	Drew, Michael K.; Lovell, Gregory; Palsson, Thorvaldur S.; Chiarelli, Pauline E.; Osmotherly, Peter G.								Australian football players experiencing groin pain exhibit reduced subscale scores of Activities of Daily Living and Sport and Recreation on the HAGOS questionnaire: A case-control study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				26				7	12		10.1016/j.ptsp.2017.04.004			JUL 2017	2017	Objectives: To report normative responses to the HAGOS questionnaire for Australian football players and to determine whether any of the HAGOS questionnaire sub scales can differentiate players with and without groin pain. Design: Case-control. Setting: Clinical setting. Participants: Professional (n = 66) and semi-professional (n = 9) Australian football (AF) players with current groin pain (n = 16) and controls (n = 57) without current groin pain. Main outcome measure: The HAGOS subscales were compared between players with and without groin pain using the Wilcoxon rank-sum test with effect sizes (ES) calculated. Floor and ceiling effects were examined. A post-hoc factor analysis was undertaken. Results: Participants with current groin pain showed lower Physical Function of Daily Living (PFDL) and Physical Function in Sport and Recreation (PFSR) subscale scores (p < 0.05, ES: 0.77 and 0.90 respectively). Any groin pain (current and/or historical) lowered the Pain and Quality of Life (QOL) subscale scores (p < 0.05, ES: 0.38 and 0.72 respectively). Factor analysis showed 8 significant factors with one main factor identified representing items describing forceful activities (Eigenvalue = 18.02, Proportion = 0.49). Conclusions: The HAGOS can distinguish AF players with current groin pain in the PFDL and PFSR sub scales but not in the other four subscales. Any current or historical groin pain lowers scores on the QOL and Pain sub scales. (C) 2017 Published by Elsevier Ltd.		[Drew, Michael K.; Chiarelli, Pauline E.; Osmotherly, Peter G.] Univ Newcastle, Sch Hlth Sci, Fac Hlth & Med, Newcastle, NSW, Australia; [Drew, Michael K.] Australian Inst Sport, Dept Phys Therapies, Canberra, ACT, Australia; [Lovell, Gregory] Australian Inst Sport, Dept Sports Med, Canberra, ACT, Australia; [Palsson, Thorvaldur S.] Aalborg Univ, Fac Med, Dept Hlth Sci & Technol, Ctr Neuroplast & Pain CNAP,SMI, Aalborg, Denmark; [Drew, Michael K.] Australian Sports Commiss, Australian Inst Sport, Phys Therapies, Bruce, Australia								9							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000406725000002	17	Article; Article		
J	Caro, Cary A.; Elder, Adam								The relationship between spending and winning in college baseball: Is this the new "arms race' in college athletics?								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				12	3			381	397		10.1177/1747954117710504			JUN 2017	2017	College baseball has grown in popularity over the course of the last few years, as is evidenced by the increased national and regional broadcasts of games on television. For some schools, baseball is the third revenue-generating sport; however, the sport has not received much attention in the academic sports literature. This study seeks to fill the void in the extant literature and examines the rise in expenditures and revenues, and their impact on winning, using a sample of Power Five Conference baseball teams from 2007 to 2014. ANOVA, linear regression and logistic regression were used to find that there is a moderate, positive relationship between expenditures and success. Specifically, expenditures account for 18% of the variance in winning, and a 5% increase in win percentages is evidenced with every additional million-dollar investment in the sport. Additionally, the same investment increases the odds of qualifying for the National Collegiate Athletic Association tournament by 248%, for a Super Regional by 112%, and for the College World Series by 127%. The implications of these findings, as well as recommendations to frame decision-making at the administrative level are included here.		[Caro, Cary A.] Xavier Univ Louisiana, 1 Drexel Dr,Box 52, New Orleans, LA 70125 USA; [Elder, Adam] Louisiana State Univ, Baton Rouge, LA 70803 USA; [Caro, Cary A.] Xavier Univ Louisiana, 1 Drexel Dr,Box 52, New Orleans, LA 70125 USA								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000403152000011	63	Article; Article		
J	Cripps, Ashley J.; Joyce, Christopher; Woods, Carl T.; Hopper, Luke S.								Biological maturity and the anthropometric, physical and technical assessment of talent identified U16 Australian footballers								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				12	3			344	350		10.1177/1747954117710507			JUN 2017	2017	This study compared biological maturation, anthropometric, physical and technical skill measures between talent and non-talent identified junior Australian footballers. Players were recruited from the under 16 Western Australian Football League and classified as talent (state representation; n = 25, 15.7 +/- 0.3 y) or non-talent identified (non-state representation; n = 25, 15.6 +/- 0.4 y). Players completed a battery of anthropometric, physical and technical skill assessments. Maturity was estimated using years from peak height velocity calculations. Binary logistic regression was used to identify the variables demonstrating the strongest association with the main effect of 'status'. A receiver operating characteristic curve was used to assess the level of discrimination provided by the strongest model. Talent identified under 16 players were biologically older, had greater stationary and dynamic leaps and superior handball skill when compared to their non-talent identified counterparts. The strongest model of status included standing height, non-dominant dynamic vertical jump and handball outcomes (AUC = 83.4%, CI = 72.1%-95.1%). Biological maturation influences anthropometric and physical capacities that are advantageous for performance in Australian football; talent identification methods should factor biological maturation as a confound in the search for junior players who are most likely to succeed in senior competition.		[Cripps, Ashley J.; Joyce, Christopher] Univ Notre Dame Australia, Sch Exercise & Hlth Sci, Fremantle, WA, Australia; [Woods, Carl T.] James Cook Univ, Discipline Sport & Exercise Sci, Townsville, Qld, Australia; [Hopper, Luke S.] Edith Cowan Univ, Western Australian Acad Performing Arts, Perth, WA, Australia; [Cripps, Ashley J.] Univ Notre Dame Australia, Sch Exercise & Hlth Sci, Fremantle, WA, Australia								11							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000403152000007	22	Article; Article		
J	Kennedy, Michael D.; Knight, Camilla J.								Bench behaviour of ice hockey coaches: Psychophysiological and verbal responses to critical game incidents								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				12	3			303	311		10.1177/1747954117710509			JUN 2017	2017	The purpose of this study was to examine coaches' psychophysiological and verbal responses to different game situations. The in-game heart rate and verbal responses of three elite ice hockey coaches to four critical game incidents (Goals For/Against; Penalties Taken/Drawn) over four university women's games were assessed. Verbal comments were categorised using the Coach Behaviour Assessment System, and then comments and heart rate were sequenced to critical incidents recorded on video review. Overall, in-game heart rate was greater than rest and coaches were rarely silent. General encouragement and general commentary were the most common verbal comments. Two hundred and eight critical incident comments were recorded (Goals For/Against 34.6 %; Penalties Taken/Drawn 65.4%) associated with a 10bpm greater heart rate. Most common verbal responses to critical incidents were general commentary, silence and organisation. The type of comment was affected by the type of critical incident. In 78% of critical incidents, the type of comment made before incidents differed to type of comment after the incident, coaches rarely talked at the same time and silence was common. These novel findings are limited to ice hockey coaches given the small sample size. However, these results should encourage more research into the psychophysiological and verbal responses of coaches in other team sports real game situations to better understand in game coaching behaviour.		[Kennedy, Michael D.] Univ Alberta, Fac Phys Educ & Recreat, 4-230 Van Vliet Ctr, Edmonton, AB T6G 2H9, Canada; [Knight, Camilla J.] Swansea Univ, Appl Sport Technol Exercise & Med Res Ctr, Swansea, W Glam, Wales; [Kennedy, Michael D.] Univ Alberta, Fac Phys Educ & Recreat, 4-230 Van Vliet Ctr, Edmonton, AB T6G 2H9, Canada								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000403152000002	24	Article; Article		
J	Chen, Zuosong; Wang, Dong; Wang, Kun; Huang, Tao								Coaching style and attitudes toward doping in Chinese athletes: The mediating role of moral disengagement								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				12	3			312	318		10.1177/1747954117710505			JUN 2017	2017	Previous studies in Western countries indicated that coaching style had significant influence on athletes' attitudes toward doping. The purpose of this study was to investigate the association between coaching style and attitudes toward doping among Chinese athletes. The potential mediating role of moral disengagement was examined. Participants were 203 athletes (Mean age=19.0 years, 36.9% females) from the Fujian Provincial Sports Team, China. Athletes' perception of autonomy-supportive and controlling coaching style was assessed using the adapted Health Care Climate Questionnaire and the Coach Controlling Behaviors Scale, respectively. Moral disengagement in sport was assessed using a scale developed by the authors. The Performance Enhancement Attitude Scale was adapted to measure athletes' attitudes toward doping. Structural equation modelling was used to establish to assess the mediation effects. The results from structural equation model testing showed that autonomy-supportive coaching style had no direct effect on attitudes toward doping, and the indirect path through moral disengagement was also not significant. Controlling coaching style had an indirect and positive effect on attitudes toward doping through moral disengagement. Results indicated that controlling coaching style was positively associated with attitudes toward doping among Chinese athletes. The relationship was mediated by moral disengagement. Autonomy-supportive coaching style was not associated with attitudes toward doping. The findings provided evidence supporting the important role of moral disengagement in mediating the positive relationship between controlling coaching style and attitudes toward doping among Chinese athletes. The findings indicated that avoiding construction of controlling coaching climate and reducing moral disengagement in sport may be relevant for reducing athletes' pro-doping attitudes.		[Chen, Zuosong; Wang, Kun; Huang, Tao] Shanghai Jiao Tong Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Dongchuan Rd 800, Shanghai 200240, Peoples R China; [Wang, Dong] Fujian Normal Univ, Sch Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Fuzhou, Peoples R China; [Chen, Zuosong] Shanghai Jiao Tong Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Dongchuan Rd 800, Shanghai 200240, Peoples R China								17							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000403152000003	37	Article; Article		
J	Moore, Benjamin B.; Adams, Roger D.; O'Dwyer, Nicholas J.; Steel, Kylie A.; Cobley, Stephen								Laterality frequency, team familiarity, and game experience affect kicking-foot identification in Australian football players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				12	3			351	358		10.1177/1747954117710513			JUN 2017	2017	This study examined whether laterality frequency, team familiarity, and game experience affected preferred kicking foot identification in professional Australian Football players. Using a repeated-measures experimental design, 13 and 10 players, respectively, identified the kicking foot of 30 teammates and 30 opponents using static images in a randomised sequence. Accuracy (%), reaction time (RT ms), and discrimination capability indices were examined. Overall, participants were less accurate and had slower reaction times when identifying the kicking foot of opposing team players relative to the speed and accuracy of identifying teammates. Significantly lower discrimination accuracy was also evident in participants' capability to identify left-footed players from two different opposing teams. In moderating trends, opposing player game experience was correlated with accuracy and reduced reaction times, while participant game experience correlated with faster reaction times only. Laterality, (opposing) team familiarity, and game experience affect kicking foot identification in Australian Football with training and performance implications.		[Moore, Benjamin B.; O'Dwyer, Nicholas J.; Cobley, Stephen] Univ Sydney, Discipline Exercise & Sport Sci, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Adams, Roger D.] Univ Sydney, Discipline Physiotherapy, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Steel, Kylie A.] Western Sydney Univ, Sch Sci & Hlth, Penrith, NSW, Australia; [Cobley, Stephen] Univ Sydney, Fac Hlth Sci, Discipline Exercise & Sport Sci, Cumberland Campus,75 East St, Lidcombe, NSW, Australia								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000403152000008	34	Article; Article		
J	Cobley, Stephen P.; Till, Kevin								Participation trends according to relative age across youth UK Rugby League								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				12	3			339	343		10.1177/1747954117710506			JUN 2017	2017	Relative age effects in sports participation highlight the presence of a significant social and developmental inequality. To assess its prevalence, patterning, and size, this study examined participation trends of youth (ages 7-21 years) Rugby League players registered to local community clubs across the North of England (N = 23,943). Results showed that irrespective of relative age, participation growth occurred from U8 to U12s age categories. However, from U13 to U19s, participation became differentiated with the relatively younger showing earlier and progressively lowering participation proportions (e.g. Q4s - U13-U17 = 24-17%) and were up to 50% less likely to participate (i.e. Q4 vs. Q1 - U15-U16 OR = 0.48 and 0.50). Findings highlight the substantial earlier loss of participation for the relatively younger across youth ages. Player development systems containing inherent selection and differentiation during adolescence are presented as one key process affecting the decision to participate in youth Rugby League.		[Cobley, Stephen P.] Univ Sydney, Fac Hlth Sci, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Till, Kevin] Leeds Beckett Univ, Inst Sport Phys Act & Leisure, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England; [Cobley, Stephen P.] Univ Sydney, Fac Hlth Sci, Discipline Exercise & Sport Sci, Cumberland Campus,75 East St, Lidcombe, NSW, Australia								27							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000403152000006	35	Article; Article		
J	Kao, San-Fu; Hsieh, Ming-Hui; Lee, Po-Lun								Coaching competency and trust in coach in sport teams								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				12	3			319	327		10.1177/1747954117710508			JUN 2017	2017	This study examines the relationship between coaching competency as evaluated by athletes and their perceptions of trust in their coaches. The authors hypothesize that athletes' evaluation of four dimensions of coaching competency is positively related to their trust in their coaches, and that this relationship is stronger at the team level than at the individual level. In total, 438 basketball players (251 males and 187 females) from 34 teams completed the Coaching Competency Scale (CCS) and the trust in the coach questionnaire during the postseason. The hypotheses were tested through hierarchical linear modeling. The analyses revealed that individual- and group-level evaluations of the four-dimensional CCS (motivation, game-strategy, technique, and character-building competencies) positively predicted trust in the coach; furthermore, group-level coaching competency was the primary contributor to this relationship. Therefore, improving the psychological and tactical skills of coaches and their skill detection abilities and instruction at training together with a positive attitude toward sports may help improve the trust of athletes in their coaches.		[Kao, San-Fu] Natl Tsing Hua Univ, Hsinchu, Taiwan; [Hsieh, Ming-Hui] Natl Chengchi Univ, Taipei, Taiwan; [Lee, Po-Lun] Natl Taiwan Univ Arts, New Taipei, Taiwan; [Kao, San-Fu] Natl Tsing Hua Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Nan Da Rd, Hsinchu 30014, Taiwan								37							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000403152000004	52	Article; Article		
J	Bahia Loureiro, Luiz de Franca, Jr.; Costa Dias, Mario Oliveira; Cremasco, Felipe Couto; da Silva, Maicon Guimaraes; de Freitas, Paulo Barbosa								Assessment of Specificity of the Badcamp Agility Test for Badminton Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				57	1			191	198		10.1515/hukin-2017-0060			JUN 2017	2017	The Badcamp agility test was created to evaluate agility of badminton players. The Badcamp is a valid and reliable test, however, a doubt about the need for the use of this test exists as simpler tests could provide similar information about agility in badminton players. Thus, the aim of this study was to examine the specificity of the Badcamp, comparing the performance of badminton players and athletes from other sports in the Badcamp and the shuttle run agility test (SRAT). Sixty-four young male and female athletes aged between 14 and 16 years participated in the study. They were divided into 4 groups of 16 according to their sport practices: badminton, tennis, team sport (basketball and volleyball), and track and field. We compared the groups in both tests, the Badcamp and SRAT. The results revealed that the group of badminton players was faster compared to all other groups in the Badcamp. However, in the SRAT there were no differences among groups composed of athletes from open skill sports (e.g., badminton, tennis, and team sports), and a considerable reduction of the difference between badminton players and track and field athletes. Thus, we concluded that the Badcamp test is a specific agility test for badminton players and should be considered in evaluating athletes of this sport modality.		[Bahia Loureiro, Luiz de Franca, Jr.] Ctr Univ Catolica Quixada, Quixada, CE, Brazil; [Bahia Loureiro, Luiz de Franca, Jr.; Costa Dias, Mario Oliveira; Cremasco, Felipe Couto; da Silva, Maicon Guimaraes] Assoc Esport Viva Badminton, Campinas, SP, Brazil; [Bahia Loureiro, Luiz de Franca, Jr.; de Freitas, Paulo Barbosa] Univ Cruzeiro Sul, Interdisciplinary Grad Program Hlth Sci, Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil; [de Freitas, Paulo Barbosa] Univ Cruzeiro Sul, ICAFE, Rua Galvao Bueno 868, BR-01506000 Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil								14							Sport Sciences	WOS:000404979100019	24	Article; Article		
J	Taboada-Iglesias, Yaiza; Vernetta Santana, Mercedes; Gutierrez-Sanchez, Agueda								Anthropometric Profile in Different Event Categories of Acrobatic Gymnastics								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				57	1			169	179		10.1515/hukin-2017-0058			JUN 2017	2017	There is a specific anthropometric profile for each sport, which may be differentiated even in relation to the position, role or event category within each sport discipline. However, there are few studies on acrobatic gymnastics, and the goal of this work was to determine the anthropometric profile depending on the event category, as well as factors that predisposed to performance in these categories. The sample consisted of 150 gymnasts from Spain, divided into 8 groups according to the event category and the role played. The kinanthropometric measurements were taken through the procedures established by the International Society for the Advancement of Kineantropometry. The anthropometric characteristics, including body mass index, somatotype, body composition and proportionality using the Phantom stratagem were analyzed, and the results obtained from the different groups were compared. A regression analysis was performed with particular groups of gymnasts. No significant differences (p < 0.05) were observed between groups of female tops or male bases, although differences were found between female group bases and female pair bases. It could be suggested that higher values of body height, sitting height, the minimum abdominal circumference, percentage of fat and low biliocristal breadth predispose female bases to work in pairs rather than in groups. The conclusion is that the anthropometric measurements are not decisive when guiding a gymnast toward choosing one event category or another, except for female bases.		[Taboada-Iglesias, Yaiza; Gutierrez-Sanchez, Agueda] Univ Vigo, Galicia Hlth Res Inst IIS, Educ Phys Act & Hlth Res Grp DE3 Gies10, Dept Special Didact,Fac Educ & Sport Sci Educ, Vigo, Spain; [Vernetta Santana, Mercedes] Univ Granada, Fac Sports Sci, Dept Phys Educ, Granada, Spain; [Taboada-Iglesias, Yaiza] Univ Vigo, Fac Educ & Sport Sci, Dept Special Teaching, Campus A Xunqueira S-N, Pontevedra 36005, Spain								29							Sport Sciences	WOS:000404979100017	26	Article; Article		
J	Fisher, James; Clark, Thomas; Newman-Judd, Katherine; Arnold, Josh; Steele, James								Intra-Subject Variability of 5 Km Time Trial Performance Completed by Competitive Trained Runners								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				57	1			139	146		10.1515/hukin-2017-0055			JUN 2017	2017	Time-trials represent an ecologically valid approach to assessment of endurance performance. Such information is useful in the application of testing protocols and estimation of sample sizes required for research/magnitude based inference methods. The present study aimed to investigate the intra-subject variability of 5 km time-trial running performance in trained runners. Six competitive trained male runners (age = 33.8 +/- 10.1 years; stature = 1.78 +/- 0.01 m; body mass = 69.0 +/- 10.4 kg, VO2max = 62.6 +/- 11.0 ml.kg.min(-1)) completed an incremental exercise test to volitional exhaustion followed by 5 x 5 km time-trials (including a familiarisation trial), individually spaced by 48 hours. The time taken to complete each trial, heart rate, rating of perceived exertion and speed were all assessed. Intra-subject absolute standard error of measurement and the coefficient of variance were calculated for time-trial variables in addition to the intra-class correlation coefficient for time taken to complete the time-trial. For the primary measure time, results showed a coefficient of variation score across all participants of 1.5 +/- 0.59% with an intra-class correlation coefficient score of 0.990. Heart rate, rating of perceived exertion and speed data showed a variance range between 0.8 and 3.05%. It was concluded that when compared with related research, there was observed low intra-subject variability in trained runners over a 5 km distance. This supports the use of this protocol for 5 km time-trial performance for assessment of nutritional strategies, ergogenic aids or training interventions on endurance running performance.		[Fisher, James; Clark, Thomas; Newman-Judd, Katherine; Arnold, Josh; Steele, James] Southampton Solent Univ, Sch Sport Hlth & Social Sci, Southampton, Hants, England; [Fisher, James] Southampton Solent Univ, Sch Hlth Exercise & Social Sci, East Pk Terrace, Southampton SO14 0YN, Hants, England								6							Sport Sciences	WOS:000404979100014	37	Article; Article		
J	Brito, Ciro Jose; Miarka, Bianca; Diaz de Durana, Alfonso Lopez; Fukuda, David H.								Home Advantage in Judo: Analysis by the Combat Phase, Penalties and the Type of Attack								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				57	1			213	220		10.1515/hukin-2017-0062			JUN 2017	2017	Previous studies indicate positive home advantage in judo; however, the factors that influence home advantage have yet to be fully explored. This study investigated the potential differences in technical-tactical variables between home and visiting athletes. A total of 1411 video recorded matches were analyzed (123 home, 1288 away) from 36 international judo competitions contested in 2011-12. The matches were analyzed by the following criteria: combat phases (approach, gripping, attack, defense, groundwork and pause), penalties (by the athlete or the opponent) and the types of attacks (with or without a score). Elite judo athletes competing in their home country attacked more frequently using trunk/leg couple techniques (p < 0.011) and scored more frequently with arm/leg couple techniques (p < 0.001), while visiting judo athletes received fewer scores from penalties (p < 0.001) and engaged in more frequent pauses during competition (p < 0.01). The results of this study provide an outline of technical-tactical differences that may contribute to home advantage in judo.		[Brito, Ciro Jose; Miarka, Bianca] Univ Fed Juiz de Fora, Phys Educ Dept, Juiz De Fora, Brazil; [Diaz de Durana, Alfonso Lopez] Tech Univ Madrid, Phys Activ & Sports Fac, Sports Dept, Madrid, Spain; [Fukuda, David H.] Univ Cent Florida, Inst Exercise Physiol & Wellness, Orlando, FL 32816 USA; [Brito, Ciro Jose] FAEFID, Fac Educ Fis & Desporto, Jose Lourenco Kelmer st, BR-36036330 Juiz De Fora, MG, Brazil								36							Sport Sciences	WOS:000404979100021	38	Article; Article		
J	Knechtle, Beat; Nikolaidis, Pantelis T.; Rosemann, Thomas; Rust, Christoph A.								Performance Trends in Master Butterfly Swimmers Competing in the FINA World Championships								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				57	1			199	211		10.1515/hukin-2017-0061			JUN 2017	2017	Performance trends in elite butterfly swimmers are well known, but less information is available regarding master butterfly swimmers. We investigated trends in participation, performance and sex differences in 9,606 female and 13,250 male butterfly race times classified into five-year master groups, from 25-29 to 90-94 years, competing in the FINA World Masters Championships between 1986 and 2014. Trends in participation were analyzed using linear regression analysis. Trends in performance changes were investigated using mixed-effects regression analyses with sex, distance and a calendar year as fixed variables. We also considered interaction effects between sex and distance. Participation increased in master swimmers older than similar to 30-40 years. The men-to-women ratio remained unchanged across calendar years and master groups, but was lower in 200 m compared to 50 m and 100 m. Men were faster than women from 25-29 to 85-89 years (p < 0.05), although not for 90-94 years. Sex and distance showed a significant interaction in all master groups from 25-29 to 90-94 years for 200m (p < 0.05). For 50 m and 100 m, a significant sex x distance interaction was observed from 25-29 to 75-79 years (p < 0.05), but not in the older groups. In 50 m, women reduced the sex difference in master groups 30-34 to 60-64 years (p < 0.05). In 100 m, women decreased the gap to men in master groups 35-39 to 55-59 years (p < 0.05). In 200 m, the sex difference was reduced in master groups 30-34 to 40-44 years (p < 0.05). In summary, women and men improved performance at all distances, women were not slower compared to men in the master group 90-94 years; moreover, women reduced the gap to men between similar to 30 and similar to 60 years, although not in younger or older master groups.		[Knechtle, Beat] Gesundheitszentrum St Gallen, St Gallen, Switzerland; [Knechtle, Beat; Rosemann, Thomas; Rust, Christoph A.] Univ Zurich, Inst Primary Care, Zurich, Switzerland; [Nikolaidis, Pantelis T.] Hellen Army Acad, Dept Phys & Cultural Educ, Athens, Greece; [Knechtle, Beat] Gesundheitszentrum St Gallen, Facharzt FMH Allgemeinmed, Vadianstr 26, CH-9001 St Gallen, Switzerland								17							Sport Sciences	WOS:000404979100020	36	Article; Article		
J	Beenham, Mathew; Barron, David J.; Fry, John; Hurst, Howard H.; Figueirdo, Antonio; Atkins, Steve								A Comparison of GPS Workload Demands in Match Play and Small-Sided Games by the Positional Role in Youth Soccer								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				57	1			129	137		10.1515/hukin-2017-0054			JUN 2017	2017	The external demands of small-sided games (SSGs) according to the positional role are currently unknown. Using a Catapult Minimax X3 5 Hz GPS, with a 100 Hz tri-axial accelerometer, we compared the accumulated tri-axial player workload per min (PLacc.min(-1)) during friendly youth match play (MP) (11 vs. 11) and SSGs (2 vs. 2, 3 vs. 3, and 4 vs. 4). Significant differences existed between all SSGs and MP for PLacc.min(-1) (F = 21.91, p < 0.001, eta 2 = 0.38), and individual X (F = 27.40, p < 0.001, eta 2 = 0.43), Y (F = 14.50, p < 0.001, eta 2 = 0.29) and Z (F = 19.28, p < 0.001, eta 2 = 0.35) axis loads. Across all conditions, mean PLacc.min(-1) was greater for midfielders (p = 0.004, CI: 0.68, 4.56) and forwards (p = 0.037, CI: 0.08, 3.97) than central defenders. In all conditions, greater Y axis values existed for wide defenders (p = 0.024, CI: 0.67, 1.38), midfielders (p = 0.006, CI: 0.18, 1.50) and forwards (p = 0.007, CI: 0.17, 0.15) compared to central defenders. Midfielders reported greater Z axis values compared to central defenders (p = 0.002, CI: 0.40, 2.23). We concluded that SSGs elicited greater external loads than MP, and previous studies may have underestimated the demands of SSGs.		[Beenham, Mathew; Barron, David J.; Fry, John] Myerscough Coll, Ctr Res Sports Performance, Preston, Lancs, England; [Hurst, Howard H.; Figueirdo, Antonio; Atkins, Steve] Univ Cent Lancashire, Ctr Appl Sport & Exercise Sci, Preston, Lancs, England; [Barron, David J.] Myerscough Coll, Ctr Res Sports Performance, Preston, Lancs, England								40							Sport Sciences	WOS:000404979100013	43	Article; Article		
J	Nugent, Frank J.; Comyns, Thomas M.; Warrington, Giles D.								Quality Versus Quantity Debate in Swimming: Perceptions and Training Practices of Expert Swimming Coaches								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				57	1			147	158		10.1515/hukin-2017-0056			JUN 2017	2017	The debate over low-volume, high-intensity training versus high-volume, low-intensity training, commonly known as Quality versus Quantity, respectively, is a frequent topic of discussion among swimming coaches and academics. The aim of this study was to explore expert coaches' perceptions of quality and quantity coaching philosophies in competitive swimming and to investigate their current training practices. A purposeful sample of 11 expert swimming coaches was recruited for this study. The study was a mixed methods design and involved each coach participating in 1 semi-structured interview and completing 1 closed-ended questionnaire. The main findings of this study were that coaches felt quality training programmes would lead to short term results for youth swimmers, but were in many cases more appropriate for senior swimmers. The coaches suggested that quantity training programmes built an aerobic base for youth swimmers, promoted technical development through a focus on slower swimming and helped to enhance recovery from training or competition. However, the coaches continuously suggested that quantity training programmes must be performed with good technique and they felt this was a misunderstood element. This study was a critical step towards gaining a richer and broader understanding on the debate over Quality versus Quantity training from an expert swimming coaches' perspective which was not currently available in the research literature.		[Nugent, Frank J.; Comyns, Thomas M.; Warrington, Giles D.] Univ Limerick, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Limerick, Ireland; [Nugent, Frank J.] Univ Limerick, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Limerick, Ireland								47							Sport Sciences	WOS:000404979100015	34	Article; Article		
J	Morales, Anderson Pontes; Sampaio-Jorge, Felipe; da Cruz Rangel, Luiz Felipe; Menezes, Jackson de Souza; Leite, Tiago Costa; Ribeiro, Beatriz Goncalves								Cardiopulmonary Performance During Maximal Exercise in Soccer Players with Alterations in Renal Function								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				57	1			107	115		10.1515/hukin-2017-0052			JUN 2017	2017	The aim of this study was to evaluate the curves of cardiorespiratory variables during cardiopulmonary exercise testing (CPET) in soccer players who had acute alterations in the glomerular filtration rate (GFR) after performing the pre-season training protocol. Sixteen male professional soccer players (25 +/- 3 years; 179 +/- 2 cm; and 77 +/- 6 kg) were evaluated for oxygen uptake (VO2), heart rate (HR) and pulse relative oxygen (relative O-2 Pulse) curves with intervals corresponding to 10% of the total duration of CPET. Athletes were grouped according to the GFR and classified as decreased GFR (dGFR; n = 8) and normal GFR (nGFR; n = 8). Athletes from the dGFR group exhibited lower VO2 values (p < 0.05) when 90% (dGFR 49.8 +/- 4.0 vs. nGFR 54.4 +/- 6.1 ml.kg(-1.)min(-1)) and 100% (dGFR 52.6 +/- 4.1 vs. nGFR 57.4 +/- 5.9 ml.kg(-1).min(-1)) of the test was complete; HR high values (p < 0.05) when 90% (dGFR 183.7 +/- 5.1 vs. nGFR 176.6 +/- 4.8 bpm-1) and 100% (dGFR 188.1 +/- 5.0 vs. nGFR 180.8 +/- 4.8 bpm-1) of the test was complete; and lower relative O2 Pulse values (p < 0.05) when 70% (dGFR 25.6 +/- 8.4 vs. nGFR 27.9 +/- 9.7 ml.beat(-1).kg(-1)), 80% (dGFR 26.6 +/- 8.8 vs. nGFR 29.1 +/- 10.0 ml.beat(-1).kg(-1)), 90% (dGFR 27.1 +/- 9.0 vs. nGFR 30.8 +/- 10.6 ml.beat(-1).kg(-1)) and 100% (dGFR 28 +/- 9.2 vs. nGFR 31.8 +/- 10.9 ml.beat(-1).kg(-1)) of the test was complete. A correlation was found (r = -0.66, R-2 = 0.44, p = 0.00) between lower VO2 peak and elevated levels of urinary protein excretion. In conclusion, soccer players with reduced kidney function after performing the pre-season training protocol also presented alterations in cardiopulmonary variables. We suggest that monitoring of renal function may be used to identify less conditioned soccer players.		[Morales, Anderson Pontes; Sampaio-Jorge, Felipe; da Cruz Rangel, Luiz Felipe; Leite, Tiago Costa; Ribeiro, Beatriz Goncalves] Fed Univ Rio Janeiro UFRJ, Lab Res & Innovat Sports Sci, Macae, Brazil; [Morales, Anderson Pontes; Sampaio-Jorge, Felipe; da Cruz Rangel, Luiz Felipe] City Govt Macae SEMEL, Secretary Municipal Sport, Macae, Brazil; [Morales, Anderson Pontes; Sampaio-Jorge, Felipe] Higher Inst Educ CENSA ISECENSA, Lab Chem & Biomol, Campos Dos Goytacazes, Brazil; [Menezes, Jackson de Souza] Fed Univ Rio Janeiro UFRJ, Lab Integrated Biochem Hatisaburo Masuda, Macae, Brazil; [Morales, Anderson Pontes] Univ Fed Rio de Janeiro, Lab Res & Innovat Sports Sci, Macae Campus,159,Alcides de Conceicao, BR-27930560 Macae, RJ, Brazil								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:000404979100011	40	Article; Article		
J	Samuel, Roy David; Zavdy, Ofir; Levav, Miriam; Reuveny, Ronen; Katz, Uriel; Dubnov-Raz, Gal								The Effects of Maximal Intensity Exercise on Cognitive Performance in Children								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				57	1			85	96		10.1515/hukin-2017-0050			JUN 2017	2017	High intensity physical exercise has previously been found to lead to a decline in cognitive performance of adults. The aim of this study was to determine the effects of maximal intensity exercise on cognitive performance of children. Using a repeated-measures design, 20 children and adolescents aged 8-17 years completed a battery of tests measuring memory and attention. Forward and Backward Digit Span tests, the Rey Auditory-Verbal Learning Test (RAVLT) and the Digit Symbol Substitution Test (DSST) were performed at baseline, immediately after, and one hour after a maximal cardiopulmonary exercise test. Forward and Backward Digit Span scores significantly improved post-recovery compared with baseline measurements. There was a significant decrease in RAVLT scores post-exercise, which returned to baseline values after recovery. The DSST test scores were mildly elevated from post-exercise to after recovery. Maximal intensity exercise in children and adolescents may result in both beneficial and detrimental cognitive effects, including transient impairment in verbal learning. Cognitive functions applying short term memory improve following a recovery period. Parents, educators and coaches should consider these changes in memory and attention following high-intensity exercise activities in children.		[Samuel, Roy David] Kibbutzim Coll Educ Technol & Arts, Dept Phys Educ & Movement, Tel Aviv, Israel; [Samuel, Roy David] Florida State Univ, Dept Sport Management, Tallahassee, FL 32306 USA; [Zavdy, Ofir] Hebrew Univ Jerusalem, Hadassah Med Sch, Jerusalem, Israel; [Levav, Miriam] Edmond & Lily Safra Childrens Hosp, Sheba Med Ctr, Dept Pediat Rehabil, Tel Hashomer, Israel; [Reuveny, Ronen; Katz, Uriel] Edmond & Lily Safra Childrens Hosp, Sheba Med Ctr, Edmond J Safra Int Congenital Heart Ctr, Tel Hashomer, Israel; [Dubnov-Raz, Gal] Edmond & Lily Safra Childrens Hosp, Sheba Med Ctr, Exercise Nutr & Lifestyle Clin, Tel Hashomer, Israel; [Dubnov-Raz, Gal] Tel Aviv Univ, Sackler Fac Med, Tel Aviv, Israel; [Dubnov-Raz, Gal] Edmond & Lily Safra Childrens Hosp, Sheba Med Ctr, Exercise Nutr & Lifestyle Clin, Tel Hashomer, Israel								33							Sport Sciences	WOS:000404979100009	33	Article; Article		
J	Gago, Paulo; Arndt, Anton; Ekblom, Maria M.								Post Activation Potentiation of the Plantarflexors: Implications of Knee Angle Variations								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				57	1			29	38		10.1515/hukin-2017-0044			JUN 2017	2017	Flexing the knee to isolate the single joint soleus from the biarticular gastrocnemius is a strategy for investigating individual plantarflexor's post activation potentiation (PAP). We investigated the implications of testing plantarflexor PAP at different knee angles and provided indirect quantification of the contribution of gastrocnemius potentiation to the overall plantarflexor enhancements post conditioning. Plantarflexor supramaximal twitches were measured in ten male power athletes before and after a maximal isometric plantarflexion (MVIC) at both flexed and extended knee angles. Mean torque and soleus (SOLRMS) and medial gastrocnemius (MGRMS) activity were measured during the MVIC. The mean torque and MGRMS of the MVIC were lower (by 33.9 and 42.4%, respectively) in the flexed compared to the extended position, with no significant difference in SOLRMS. After the MVIC, twitch peak torque (PT) and the rate of torque development (RTR) potentiated significantly more (by 17.4 and 14.7% respectively) in the extended as compared to the flexed knee position, but only immediately (5 s) after the MVIC. No significant differences were found in the twitch rate of torque development (RTD) potentiation between positions. It was concluded that knee joint configuration should be taken into consideration when comparing studies of plantarflexor PAP. Furthermore, results reflect a rather brief contribution of the gastrocnemius potentiation to the overall plantarflexor twitch enhancements.		[Gago, Paulo; Arndt, Anton; Ekblom, Maria M.] GIH, Swedish Sch Sport & Hlth Sci, Lidingovagen 1, S-11433 Stockholm, Sweden; [Gago, Paulo] CIDESD, Res Ctr Sport Hlth & Human Dev, Vila Real, Portugal; [Arndt, Anton] Karolinska Inst, Dept CLINTEC, Stockholm, Sweden; [Ekblom, Maria M.] Karolinska Inst, Dept Neurosci, Stockholm, Sweden; [Gago, Paulo] GIH, Swedish Sch Sport & Hlth Sci, Lidingovagen 1, S-11433 Stockholm, Sweden								14							Sport Sciences	WOS:000404979100004	32	Article; Article		
J	Hildebrandt, Carolin; Mueller, Lisa; Heisse, Christian; Raschner, Christian								Trunk Strength Characteristics of Elite Alpine Skiers - A Comparison with Physically Active Controls								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				57	1			51	59		10.1515/hukin-2017-0046			JUN 2017	2017	Core muscle imbalances and weak trunk strength are relevant for injury prevention and performance. Information regarding core strength requirements and ideal flexion/extension ratios in alpine skiing is limited. We aimed to compare trunk strength capacities in elite alpine skiers with those of a matched control group. The concentric maximal trunk flexion and extension of 109 elite skiers and 47 active controls were measured at 150 degrees/s in a ballistic mode using the CON-TREX (R) TP 1000 test system. The relative flexion peak torque was higher in male ski racers (p = 0.003; 2.44 +/- 0.30 Nm/kg) than in the controls (2.32 +/- 0.42 Nm/kg). The relative peak torque for extension was 4.53 +/- 0.65 Nm/kg in ski racers and 4.11 +/- 0.52 Nm/kg in the controls (p = 0.001). Female athletes were significantly stronger in both, relative flexion force (p = 0.006; skiers 2.05 +/- 0.22 Nm/kg; controls 1.74 +/- 0.28 Nm/kg) and relative extension force (p = 0.001; skiers 3.55 +/- 0.53 Nm/kg; controls 3.14 +/- 0.48 Nm/kg). No significant differences were found in the ratios of flexion to extension forces in females and males. Ski racers are engaged in extensive strength training for both leg and trunk muscles, which explains the higher peak values. Both groups indicated a low ratio from 0.54-0.59, which represents high trunk extensor muscles strength relative to flexor muscles.		[Hildebrandt, Carolin; Mueller, Lisa; Heisse, Christian; Raschner, Christian] Univ Innsbruck, Dept Sport Sci, Fuerstenweg 185, A-6020 Innsbruck, Austria; [Hildebrandt, Carolin] Univ Innsbruck, Dept Sport Sci, Fuerstenweg 185, A-6020 Innsbruck, Austria								10							Sport Sciences	WOS:000404979100006	32	Article; Article		
J	Martins, Paulo; Rosado, Antonio; Ferreira, Vitor; Biscaia, Rui								Personal and Social Responsibility Among Athletes: the Role of Self-Determination, Achievement Goals and Engagement								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				57	1			39	50		10.1515/hukin-2017-0045			JUN 2017	2017	The purpose of this study was to assess the relationship between motivation, engagement and personal and social responsibility among athletes. Based on the literature, a survey was conducted including measures of motivation, considering task orientation and ego orientation, intrinsic and extrinsic motivation, and amotivation. We also measured the components of engagement (dedication, confidence, vigor and enthusiasm) and the components of personal and social responsibility. A total of 517 athletes from different types of sports participated in the study. The results gathered through a structural equation model revealed that task orientation had the strongest relationship with personal responsibility and social responsibility, followed by engagement. Self-determination levels were not associated with personal and social responsibility. These results suggest that monitoring of task orientation and engagement levels should be performed by coaches as a strategy to develop personal and social responsibility among their athletes. Moreover, findings from this study provide scholars with a tool to aid them in managing athletes' levels of personal and social responsibility.		[Martins, Paulo; Rosado, Antonio; Ferreira, Vitor] Univ Lisbon, Fac Motricidade Humana, Lisbon, Portugal; [Biscaia, Rui] Coventry Univ, London, England; [Martins, Paulo] Univ Lisbon, Fac Motricidade Humana, Estr Costa, P-1499002 Cruz Quebrada, Dafundo, Portugal								20							Sport Sciences	WOS:000404979100005	52	Article; Article		
J	Sun, Dong; Mei, Qichang; Baker, Julien S.; Jia, Xuewen; Gu, Yaodong								A Pilot Study of the Effect of Outsole Hardness on Lower Limb Kinematics and Kinetics during Soccer Related Movements								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				57	1			17	27		10.1515/hukin-2017-0043			JUN 2017	2017	The purpose of this study was to investigate the effect of different outsole hardness of turf cleats shoes on the lower limb kinematics and kinetics of soccer players playing on artificial turf. The participants were required to complete tasks of straight running and 45 degrees left sidestep cutting movements, respectively, at the speed of 4.5 +/- 0.2 m/s on artificial turf. They were asked to randomly select turf cleats shoes with a soft outsole (SO), medium hardness outsole (MO) and hard outsole (HO). During the stance phase of straight running, peak pressure and force-time integral in medial forefoot (MFF) of players wearing cleats shoes with MO were significantly higher than those wearing cleats shoes with SO. During the stance phase of a 45 degrees cutting maneuver, players wearing cleats shoes with SO showed significantly higher peak knee flexion and abduction angles than the HO group. Players wearing cleats shoes with SO also showed higher ankle dorsiflexion and inversion angles compared with those wearing cleats shoes with HO. The vertical average loading rate (VALR) as well as peak pressure and force-time integral in the heel (H) and lateral forefoot (LFF) regions of players wearing cleats shoes with HO were significantly higher than those wearing shoes with SO. On the contrary, peak pressure and force-time integral of players wearing shoes with SO were significantly higher than those wearing shoes with HO in MFF. A higher vertical loading rate and plantar pressure of some areas may increase the potential risk of metatarsal stress fractures and plantar fasciitis. Therefore, this finding about turf cleats shoes could give some theoretic support for the design of turf cleats shoes and material optimization in the future.		[Sun, Dong; Mei, Qichang; Gu, Yaodong] Ningbo Univ, Fac Sports Sci, 818 Fenghua Rd, Ningbo 315211, Zhejiang, Peoples R China; [Mei, Qichang; Gu, Yaodong] Ningbo Univ, Res Acad Grand Hlth Interdisciplinary, Ningbo, Zhejiang, Peoples R China; [Baker, Julien S.] Univ West Scotland, Sch Sci & Sport, Paisley, Renfrew, Scotland; [Jia, Xuewen] Ningbo First Hosp, Dept Orthopaed, Ningbo, Zhejiang, Peoples R China; [Gu, Yaodong] Ningbo Univ, Fac Sports Sci, 818 Fenghua Rd, Ningbo 315211, Zhejiang, Peoples R China								9							Sport Sciences	WOS:000404979100003	34	Article; Article		
J	Booth, Mark; Orr, Rhonda								Time-Loss Injuries in Sub-Elite and Emerging Rugby League Players								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				16	2			295	301					JUN 2017	2017	This study aimed to 1) investigate the incidence and characteristics of injuries in emerging rugby league players; and 2) explore the differences in injury incidence and characteristics between the various sub-elite competitions. An NRL emerging player development squad (n = 34) was observed from the beginning of pre-season until the finish of competition. Time-loss injury was defined as any physical pain or impairment sustained that resulted in players missing a match. Injuries were categorised according to circumstance, incidence, characteristics, playing position and competition level. Of a total of 196 injuries that were recorded, 45 were time-loss and 151 were transient. The total injury incidence was 7.9/1,000 playing hours. The most common sites for time-loss injuries were the shoulder, ankle/foot and knee. Ligament injuries accounted for the highest number of injuries by type. Forwards sustained the greatest number of injuries. However, backs suffered the greatest injury cost. The majority of time-loss injuries were sustained during competition matches. Injuries sustained during open age matches resulted in significantly higher injury cost to those received at NYC matches. NRL development and emerging rugby league players are exposed to high risk of injury. Lower limb and shoulder injuries to bone or connective tissue are prevalent as a result of contact during match play. Players at this developmental level feed into several different playing squads where disparities in physical development, maturation, playing intensity and training regimes are evident. This presents a challenge in matching physiological capabilities with playing demands for NRL development squads.		[Booth, Mark; Orr, Rhonda] Univ Sydney, Fac Hlth Sci, Discipline Exercise & Sport Sci, POB 170, Lidcombe, NSW 1825, Australia; [Booth, Mark] Univ Sydney, Fac Hlth Sci, Discipline Exercise & Sport Sci, POB 170, Lidcombe, NSW 1825, Australia								10							Sport Sciences	WOS:000402664500017	32	Article; Article		
J	Fiorilli, Giovanni; Iuliano, Enzo; Mitrotasios, Michalis; Pistone, Eugenio M.; Aquino, Giovanna; Di Costanzo, A.; Calcagno, Giuseppe; di Cagno, Alessandra								Are Change of Direction Speed and Reactive Agility Useful for Determining the Optimal Field Position for Young Soccer Players?								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				16	2			247	253					JUN 2017	2017	Change Of Direction Speed (CODS) and Reactive Agility (RA) are two determining factors in the ability of young soccer players. We aimed to verify if CODS and RA could be useful in order to establish the best young soccer player field position. Ninety-two elite soccer players (15.18 +/- 1.21 years, weight 59.18 +/- 9.93, height 1.72 +/- 0.08, BMI 19.76 +/- 2.22), belonging to two youth categories from the Italian First and Second Divisions, volunteered in this study. The participants included 32 defenders (15.06 +/- 0.80 years), 37 midfielders (15.11 +/- 0.84 years) and 23 forwards (15.48 +/- 1.16 years), and they underwent two tests, each one performed in two different ways: the Y-Agility Test, carried out in a planned and reactive mode (Y-PLAN and Y-REAC), and the Illinois for Change of Direction Test (ICODT) performed with and without the ball. REAC-INDEX, which represents the index of reactivity, was calculated as Y-REAC minus Y-PLAN. The difference between the two scores of ICODT (ICODT with the ball minus ICODT without the ball) represents the TECHN-INDEX. Multivariate Analysis of Variances (MANOVA) was used to evaluate significant differences among all position groups, for all the test scores. MANOVA showed no significant differences in test scores or in TECHN-INDEX among the groups, except for the forwards, who were significantly more reactive than the defenders (p < 0.05). The strong and significant Pearson's Correlation between ICODT with and without the ball (p < 0.01) demonstrated that physical and technical preparations have the same relevance in all positions. No significant differences were found among players in different field positions for CODS and RA performances, both with and without the ball. This study does not recommend to use RA and CODS as indicators to assign the players roles in youth soccer.		[Fiorilli, Giovanni] Univ Molise, Dept Med & Hlth Sci, Phys Educ, Campobasso, Italy; [Iuliano, Enzo; Aquino, Giovanna; Di Costanzo, A.; Calcagno, Giuseppe] Univ Molise, Dept Med & Hlth Sci, Via F De Sanctis 1, I-86100 Campobasso, Italy; [Pistone, Eugenio M.] Italian Univ Rome Foro Italico, Dept Motor Human & Hlth Sci, Natl Youth Sect Soccer, Rome, Italy; [di Cagno, Alessandra] Italian Univ Rome Foro Italico, Dept Motor Human & Hlth Sci, Rome, Italy; [Mitrotasios, Michalis] Univ Athens, Dept Sport Sci, Athens, Greece; [Fiorilli, Giovanni] Univ Molise, Dept Med & Hlth Sci, Via F De Sanctis 1, I-86100 Campobasso, Italy								48							Sport Sciences	WOS:000402664500011	38	Article; Article		
J	Gomez-Molina, Josue; Ogueta-Alday, Ana; Camara, Jesus; Stickley, Christoper; Rodriguez-Marroyo, Jose A.; Garcia-Lopez, Juan								Predictive Variables of Half-Marathon Performance for Male Runners								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				16	2			187	194					JUN 2017	2017	The aims of this study were to establish and validate various predictive equations of half-marathon performance. Seventy-eight half-marathon male runners participated in two different phases. Phase 1 (n = 48) was used to establish the equations for estimating half-marathon performance, and Phase 2 (n = 30) to validate these equations. Apart from half-marathon performance, training-related and anthropometric variables were recorded, and an incremental test on a treadmill was performed, in which physiological (VO2max, speed at the anaerobic threshold, peak speed) and biomechanical variables (contact and flight times, step length and step rate) were registered. In Phase 1, half-marathon performance could be predicted to 90.3% by variables related to training and anthropometry (Equation 1), 94.9% by physiological variables (Equation 2), 93.7% by biomechanical parameters (Equation 3) and 96.2% by a general equation (Equation 4). Using these equations, in Phase 2 the predicted time was significantly correlated with performance (r = 0.78, 0.92, 0.90 and 0.95, respectively). The proposed equations and their validation showed a high prediction of half-marathon performance in long distance male runners, considered from different approaches. Furthermore, they improved the prediction performance of previous studies, which makes them a highly practical application in the field of training and performance.		[Gomez-Molina, Josue; Ogueta-Alday, Ana; Camara, Jesus] Univ Basque Country, Fac Educ & Sport, UPV EHU, Lasarte 71, Vitoria 01007, Spain; [Ogueta-Alday, Ana; Rodriguez-Marroyo, Jose A.; Garcia-Lopez, Juan] Univ Leon, Fac Phys Act & Sports Sci FCAFD, Inst Biomed IBIOMED, Dept Phys Educ & Sports, Leon, Spain; [Stickley, Christoper] Univ Hawaii Manoa, Coll Educ, Dept Kinesiol & Rehabil Sci, Honolulu, HI 96822 USA; [Garcia-Lopez, Juan] Spanish Council Sports, High Sport Performance Ctr Leon CAR Leon, Madrid, Spain; [Gomez-Molina, Josue] Univ Basque Country, Fac Educ & Sport, UPV EHU, Lasarte 71, Vitoria 01007, Spain								46							Sport Sciences	WOS:000402664500004	46	Article; Article		
J	Mueller, Lisa; Hildebrandt, Carolin; Raschner, Christian								The Role of a Relative Age Effect in the 7th International Children's Winter Games 2016 and the Influence of Biological Maturity Status on Selection								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				16	2			195	202					JUN 2017	2017	The aim of this study was to analyse the role of a relative age effect (RAE) and to investigate the influence of biological maturity status on the RAE at the 7th International Children's Winter Games. The birth dates of all 572 participants (365 males, 207 females) were analysed, and the biological maturity status of 384 athletes (243 males, 141 females) was assessed by the age at peak height velocity (APHV) method. A RAE was present in the total sample (. x(2) = 67.81; p < 0.001), and among both male (x(2) = 49.02; p < 0.001) and female athletes (x(2) = 37.00; p < 0.001) as well as for strength-(x(2) = 56.46; p < 0.001), endurance-(x(2) = 20.48; p = 0.039) and technique-related types of sports (x(2) = 20.48; p = 0.041). No significant differences in biological maturity status were present between the male athletes of single relative age quarters. Among the female athletes a significant difference was present (F = 5.94, p < 0.001); relatively younger female athletes had significantly lower values in the APHV, which indicated that they were maturing earlier. However, when dividing the athletes into normal, early and late maturing athletes, it could be seen that among the relatively younger athletes, hardly any late maturing athletes were present. These findings revealed that relatively younger athletes seemed to only have a chance for selection if they were early maturing, whereas relatively older athletes had an increased likelihood for selection independent of their biological maturity status. In the future, the relative age and the biological maturity status should be considered in the talent development system for various types of winter sport, to contribute to more fairness and to not discriminate against relatively younger and less mature athletes.		[Mueller, Lisa; Hildebrandt, Carolin; Raschner, Christian] Univ Innsbruck, Dept Sport Sci, Fuerstenweg 185, A-6020 Innsbruck, Austria; [Mueller, Lisa] Univ Innsbruck, Dept Sport Sci, Fuerstenweg 185, A-6020 Innsbruck, Austria								10							Sport Sciences	WOS:000402664500005	24	Article; Article		
J	Williams, Mary; Squillante, Antonio; Dawes, Jay								The Single Leg Triple Hop for Distance Test								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				39	3			94	98		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000304			JUN 2017	2017	The single leg triple hop for distance test is an easy and inexpensive method of assessing a player's injury risk. this article provides a detailed description of how to perform and analyze the results of this test.		[Williams, Mary] Sam Houston State Univ, Athlet Training Program, Huntsville, TX 77340 USA; [Squillante, Antonio] Platoon Fitness Philadelphia, Philadelphia, PA USA; [Dawes, Jay] Univ Colorado, Strength & Conditioning, Colorado Springs, CO 80907 USA; [Dawes, Jay] Univ Colorado, Athlet Performance Serv, Colorado Springs, CO 80907 USA; [Williams, Mary] Sam Houston State Univ, Athlet Training Program, Huntsville, TX 77340 USA								18							Sport Sciences	WOS:000402549300013	32	Article; Article		
J	Burne, Graham; Tack, Christopher								Overhead Perturbation Training								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				39	3			87	93		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000280			JUN 2017	2017	Overhead physical performance of the upper limb is predicated on various factors including proprioception, kinesthesia, and muscle activity around the glenohumeral and scapulothoracic joints. Sustaining sufficient neuromuscular control allows optimal performance to occur, while reducing risk of injury. Conversely, both factors are reduced in the presence of an injury showing their importance in rehabilitation. Overhead perturbation training allows controlled exposure of the athlete to positions of vulnerability to allow facilitation of adaptive responses to improve response to external perturbations of limb position. This technique allows development of neuromuscular control patterns that may reduce injury.		[Burne, Graham] Wholelife Physiotherapy Ltd, London, England; [Tack, Christopher] All Powers Physiotherapy Rehabil & Conditioning, London, England; [Tack, Christopher] All Powers Physiotherapy Rehabil & Conditioning, London, England								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:000402549300012	26	Article; Article		
J	Kolber, Morey J.; Stull, Kyle R.; Cheatham, Scott W.; Hanney, William J.								The Influence of Hip Muscle Impairments on Squat Performance								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				39	3			66	73		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000305			JUN 2017	2017	The squat is a fundamental movement for weight lifting and sport performance. Beyond performance, both unilateral and bilateral squats are used to assess dynamic lower extremity control, and they may be of value for assessing injury risk and functional independence. The purpose of this column is to present an evidence-based discussion of the influence that hip muscle impairments may have on unilateral and bilateral squat performance. Specifically, the effects of hip muscle pain, fatigue, and tightness are presented. Practical applications are discussed within the context of recognizing changes attributed to muscle impairments and guiding safe exercise prescription.		[Kolber, Morey J.] Nova Southeastern Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Ft Lauderdale, FL 33314 USA; [Stull, Kyle R.] Natl Acad Sports Med, Chandler, AZ USA; [Cheatham, Scott W.] Calif State Univ Dominguez Hills, Carson, CA 90747 USA; [Hanney, William J.] Univ Cent Florida, Phys Therapy Program, Orlando, FL 32816 USA; [Kolber, Morey J.] Nova Southeastern Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Ft Lauderdale, FL 33314 USA								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:000402549300010	41	Article; Article		
J	Talpey, Scott W.; Siesmaa, Emma J.								Sports Injury Prevention: The Role of the Strength and Conditioning Coach								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				39	3			14	19		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000301			JUN 2017	2017	Prevention of sports injuries is a priority for sport stake-holders across the spectrum of training and competition. Achieving this objective requires a multi-disciplinary approach with strength and conditioning coaches playing an important role in the process. When considering sports injury prevention strategies, the role of the strength and conditioning coach can extend beyond observing exercise technique and prescribing training to develop a robust and resilient athlete. This paper provides strength and conditioning coaches with a broad overview of the sports injury prevention process and outlines examples of how strength and conditioning coaches can work to promote and improve athlete safety.		[Talpey, Scott W.; Siesmaa, Emma J.] Federat Univ Australia, Sch Hlth Sci & Psychol, Fac Hlth, Ballarat, Vic, Australia; [Talpey, Scott W.] Southern Connecticut State Univ, Exercise Sci Dept, New Haven, CT 06515 USA; [Talpey, Scott W.] Federat Univ Australia, Sch Hlth Sci & Psychol, Fac Hlth, Ballarat, Vic, Australia; [Talpey, Scott W.] Southern Connecticut State Univ, Exercise Sci Dept, New Haven, CT 06515 USA								26							Sport Sciences	WOS:000402549300003	34	Article; Article		
J	Mohney, Gretchen; Miller, Michael G.; Hanson, Nicholas								Strengthening the Figure Skater: Considerations for Injury Prevention and Performance								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				39	3			58	65		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000220			JUN 2017	2017	Athletes who participate in various figure skating disciplines could benefit from specific strengthening exercises targeting the trunk, hip, and lower extremity to prevent injury and enhance performance. Particular attention should be placed on strengthening the transverse abdominis, multifidus, and gluteal muscles followed by balance and power training. The exercise programs presented should also increase postural control and reduce the incidence of hip-related injury in skaters. In addition, these exercises can be completed during the entire training year, with reduced intensity and volume of work lower during specific competition periods.		[Mohney, Gretchen] Western Michigan Univ, Dept Human Performance & Hlth Educ, Undergrad Athlet Training Profess Program, Kalamazoo, MI 49008 USA; [Miller, Michael G.] Western Michigan Univ, Dept Human Performance & Hlth Educ, Post Profess Grad Athlet Training Program, Kalamazoo, MI 49008 USA; [Hanson, Nicholas] Western Michigan Univ, Dept Human Performance & Hlth Educ, Exercise Physiol, Kalamazoo, MI 49008 USA; [Mohney, Gretchen] Western Michigan Univ, Dept Human Performance & Hlth Educ, Undergrad Athlet Training Profess Program, Kalamazoo, MI 49008 USA								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:000402549300009	17	Article; Article		
J	Pena, Javier; Moreno-Doutres, Daniel; Borras, Xantal; Altarriba, Albert; Baiget, Ernest; Caparros, Antoni; Busca, Bernat								Patellar Tendinopathy in Team Sports: Preventive Exercises								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				39	3			20	30		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000303			JUN 2017	2017	Patellar tendinopathy is an overuse injury commonly known as "Jumper's Knee" that causes pain in the inferior region of the patella. This pathology is recurrent in team sports and has more impact on male athletes. Some anatomical intrinsic factors and several extrinsic factors seem to be key in triggering this condition that is also increasingly appearing in children and adolescents. The aim of this article is to provide coaches and practitioners with some useful practice-based exercises that can be helpful in preventing these disabling tendon injuries in sports such as volleyball, basketball, soccer, american football, and team handball.		[Pena, Javier; Borras, Xantal; Altarriba, Albert; Baiget, Ernest; Caparros, Antoni] Univ Vic Cent Univ Catalonia, Sport Performance Anal Res Grp, Barcelona, Spain; [Moreno-Doutres, Daniel] Club Joventut Badalona, Strength & Conditioning Dept, Barcelona, Spain; [Busca, Bernat] Ramon Llull Univ, FPCEE Blanquerna, Barcelona, Spain; [Pena, Javier] Univ Vic Cent Univ Catalonia, Sport Performance Anal Res Grp, Barcelona, Spain								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:000402549300004	69	Article; Article		
J	Silveira, Ricardo Peterson; Stergiou, Pro; Carpes, Felipe P.; Castro, Flavio A. de S.; Katz, Larry; Stefanyshyn, Darren J.								Validity of a portable force platform for assessing biomechanical parameters in three different tasks								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				16	2			177	186		10.1080/14763141.2016.1213875			JUN 2017	2017	The aim of this study was to determine the precision and accuracy of the vertical and anterior-posterior force components of the portable PASCO PS-2142 force plate. Impulse, peak force, and time to peak force were assessed and compared to a gold standard force plate in three different tasks: vertical jump, forward jump, and sprint start. Two healthy male participants performed ten trials for each task, resulting in 60 trials. Data analyses revealed good precision and accuracy for the vertical component of the portable force plate, with relative bias and root mean square (RMS) error values nearly the same in all tasks for the impulse, time to peak force, and peak force parameters. Precision and accuracy of the anterior-posterior component were lower for the impulse and time to peak force, with relative bias and RMS error values nearly the same between tasks. Despite the lower precision and accuracy of the anterior-posterior component of the portable force plate, these errors were systematic, reflecting a good repeatability of the measure. In addition, all variables presented good agreement between the portable and gold standard platforms. Our results provide a good perspective for using the aforementioned portable force plate in sports and clinical biomechanics.		[Silveira, Ricardo Peterson; Castro, Flavio A. de S.] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Sul, Sch Phys Educ, Aquat Sports Res Grp, Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil; [Silveira, Ricardo Peterson] Univ Verona, Dept Neurol Biomed & Movement Sci, Verona, Italy; [Stergiou, Pro] Univ Calgary, Ctr Video & Performance Anal, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Carpes, Felipe P.] Fed Univ Pampa, Lab Neuromech, Uruguaiana, RS, Brazil; [Katz, Larry] Univ Calgary, Fac Kinesiol, Sport Technol Res Lab, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Stefanyshyn, Darren J.] Univ Calgary, Human Performance Lab, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Silveira, Ricardo Peterson] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Sul, Sch Phys Educ, Aquat Sports Res Grp, Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil; [Silveira, Ricardo Peterson] Univ Verona, Dept Neurol Biomed & Movement Sci, Verona, Italy								46							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000399546500004	26	Article; Article		
J	Soncin, Rafael; Mezencio, Bruno; Ferreira, Jacielle Carolina; Rodrigues, Sara Andrade; Huebner, Rudolf; Serrao, Julio Cerca; Szmuchrowski, Leszek								Determination of a quantitative parameter to evaluate swimming technique based on the maximal tethered swimming test								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				16	2			248	257		10.1080/14763141.2016.1231836			JUN 2017	2017	The aim of this study was to propose a new force parameter, associated with swimmers' technique and performance. Twelve swimmers performed five repetitions of 25m sprint crawl and a tethered swimming test with maximal effort. The parameters calculated were: the mean swimming velocity for crawl sprint, the mean propulsive force of the tethered swimming test as well as an oscillation parameter calculated from force fluctuation. The oscillation parameter evaluates the force variation around the mean force during the tethered test as a measure of swimming technique. Two parameters showed significant correlations with swimming velocity: the mean force during the tethered swimming (r=0.85) and the product of the mean force square root and the oscillation (r=0.86). However, the intercept coefficient was significantly different from zero only for the mean force, suggesting that although the correlation coefficient of the parameters was similar, part of the mean velocity magnitude that was not associated with the mean force was associated with the product of the mean force square root and the oscillation. Thus, force fluctuation during tethered swimming can be used as a quantitative index of swimmers' technique.		[Soncin, Rafael; Mezencio, Bruno; Ferreira, Jacielle Carolina; Serrao, Julio Cerca] Univ Sao Paulo, Sch Phys Educ & Sport, Lab Biomech, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Rodrigues, Sara Andrade; Szmuchrowski, Leszek] Univ Fed Minas Gerais, Lab Load Evaluat, Belo Horizonte, Brazil; [Huebner, Rudolf] Univ Fed Minas Gerais, Lab Bioengn, Belo Horizonte, Brazil; [Soncin, Rafael] Univ Sao Paulo, Sch Phys Educ & Sport, Lab Biomech, Sao Paulo, Brazil								9							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000399546500010	29	Article; Article		
J	Sado, Natsuki; Yoshioka, Shinsuke; Fukashiro, Senshi								The three-dimensional kinetic behaviour of the pelvic rotation in maximal sprint running								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				16	2			258	271		10.1080/14763141.2016.1231837			JUN 2017	2017	The purpose of this study was to investigate the effect of lumbosacral kinetics on sprinting. Twelve male sprinters performed 50m sprints at maximal effort. Kinematic and ground reaction force data were recorded at approximately 40m from sprint commencement. A whole-body inverse dynamics approach was applied to calculate joint forces and torques at the hip and lumbosacral joints. The contribution of the hips and lumbosacral joint torques to pelvic rotation was subsequently calculated, with joint force powers indicating the rate of mechanical energy transfer between segments across joint centres calculated for both hip joints. The kinetic analysis indicated that the lumbosacral torsional torque contributed significantly to pelvic rotation. Additionally, the pelvic rotation exerted anterior-posterior joint forces on the hips, contributing to the large positive joint force power at the hip of the stance leg. These hip joint force powers assisted in motion recovery during sprinting. In conclusion, the lumbosacral torsional torque might contribute to the recovery motion in sprinting through application of the anterior-posterior joint forces at the hip joints via pelvic rotation.		[Sado, Natsuki; Yoshioka, Shinsuke; Fukashiro, Senshi] Univ Tokyo, Dept Life Sci, Tokyo, Japan; [Sado, Natsuki] Univ Tokyo, Dept Life Sci, Tokyo, Japan								25							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000399546500011	24	Article; Article		
J	Wu, Wen-Lan; Hsu, Hsiu-Tao; Chu, I-Hua; Tsai, Feng-Hua; Liang, Jing-Min								Selected plantar pressure characteristics associated with the skating performance of national in-line speed skaters								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				16	2			210	219		10.1080/14763141.2016.1222628			JUN 2017	2017	In order to help coaches analyse the techniques of professional in-line speed skaters for making the required fine adjustments and corrections in their push-off work, this study analysed the specific plantar pressure characteristics during a 300-m time-trial test. Fourteen elite in-line speed skaters from the national team were recruited in this study. The total completion time of the 300-m time-trial test, duration of each skating phase, and plantar pressure distribution were measured. The correlation between plantar pressure distribution and skating performance was assessed using Pearson correlation analyses. The results showed that the contact time of the total foot and force-time integral (FTI) in the medial forefoot were significantly correlated with the duration of the start phase, and the FTIs in the medial forefoot of the gliding (left) leg and lateral forefoot of the pushing (right) leg were significantly correlated with the duration of the turning phase. The maximum force in the medial heel, medial forefoot, and median forefoot and the FTI in the medial heel and medial forefoot were significantly correlated with the duration of the linear acceleration phase. The results suggest that a correct plantar loading area and push-off strategy can enhance the skating performance.		[Wu, Wen-Lan; Chu, I-Hua; Liang, Jing-Min] Kaohsiung Med Univ, Dept Sports Med, Kaohsiung, Taiwan; [Hsu, Hsiu-Tao; Tsai, Feng-Hua] Natl Sun Yat Sen Univ, Ctr Gen Educ, Kaohsiung, Taiwan; [Wu, Wen-Lan] Kaohsiung Med Univ, Dept Sports Med, Kaohsiung, Taiwan								9							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000399546500007	19	Article; Article		
J	Cheung, Roy T. H.; Wong, Rodney Y. L.; Chung, Tim K. W.; Choi, R. T.; Leung, Wendy W. Y.; Shek, Diana H. Y.								Relationship between foot strike pattern, running speed, and footwear condition in recreational distance runners								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				16	2			238	247		10.1080/14763141.2016.1226381			JUN 2017	2017	Compared to competitive runners, recreational runners appear to be more prone to injuries, which have been associated with foot strike patterns. Surprisingly, only few studies had examined the foot strike patterns outside laboratories. Therefore, this study compared the foot strike patterns in recreational runners at outdoor tracks with previously reported data. We also investigated the relationship between foot strike pattern, speed, and footwear in this cohort. Among 434 recreational runners analysed, 89.6% of them landed with rearfoot strike (RFS). Only 6.9 and 3.5% landed with midfoot and forefoot, respectively. A significant shift towards non-RFS was observed in our cohort, when compared with previously reported data. When speed increased by 1m/s, the odds of having forefoot strike and midfoot strike relative to RFS increased by 2.3 times and 2.6 times, respectively. Runners were 9.2 times more likely to run with a forefoot strike in minimalists compared to regular running shoes, although 70% of runners in minimalists continued to use a RFS. These findings suggest that foot strike pattern may differ across running conditions and runners should consider these factors in order to mitigate potential injury.		[Cheung, Roy T. H.; Wong, Rodney Y. L.; Chung, Tim K. W.; Choi, R. T.; Leung, Wendy W. Y.; Shek, Diana H. Y.] Hong Kong Polytech Univ, Dept Rehabil Sci, Gait & Mot Anal Lab, Hong Kong, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [Cheung, Roy T. H.] Hong Kong Polytech Univ, Dept Rehabil Sci, Gait & Mot Anal Lab, Hong Kong, Hong Kong, Peoples R China								32							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000399546500009	53	Article; Article		
J	Boey, Hannelore; Aeles, Jeroen; Schutte, Kurt; Vanwanseele, Benedicte								The effect of three surface conditions, speed and running experience on vertical acceleration of the tibia during running								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				16	2			166	176		10.1080/14763141.2016.1212918			JUN 2017	2017	Research has focused on parameters that are associated with injury risk, e.g. vertical acceleration. These parameters can be influenced by running on different surfaces or at different running speeds, but the relationship between them is not completely clear. Understanding the relationship may result in training guidelines to reduce the injury risk. In this study, thirty-five participants with three different levels of running experience were recruited. Participants ran on three different surfaces (concrete, synthetic running track, and woodchip trail) at two different running speeds: a self-selected comfortable speed and a fixed speed of 3.06m/s. Vertical acceleration of the lower leg was measured with an accelerometer. The vertical acceleration was significantly lower during running on the woodchip trail in comparison with the synthetic running track and the concrete, and significantly lower during running at lower speed in comparison with during running at higher speed on all surfaces. No significant differences in vertical acceleration were found between the three groups of runners at fixed speed. Higher self-selected speed due to higher performance level also did not result in higher vertical acceleration. These results may show that running on a woodchip trail and slowing down could reduce the injury risk at the tibia.		[Boey, Hannelore; Aeles, Jeroen; Schutte, Kurt; Vanwanseele, Benedicte] Katholieke Univ Leuven, Fac Kinesiol & Physiotherapy, Dept Kinesiol, Human Movement Biomech Res Grp, Leuven, Belgium; [Boey, Hannelore] Katholieke Univ Leuven, Biomech Sect, Dept Mech Engn, Fac Engn, Leuven, Belgium; [Schutte, Kurt] Univ Stellenbosch, Dept Sport Sci, Matieland, South Africa; [Vanwanseele, Benedicte] Fontys Univ Appl Sci, Hlth Innovat & Technol Chair, Eindhoven, Netherlands; [Boey, Hannelore] Katholieke Univ Leuven, Fac Kinesiol & Physiotherapy, Dept Kinesiol, Human Movement Biomech Res Grp, Leuven, Belgium; [Boey, Hannelore] Katholieke Univ Leuven, Biomech Sect, Dept Mech Engn, Fac Engn, Leuven, Belgium								54							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000399546500003	28	Article; Article		
J	Zambom-Ferraresi, Fabiola; Isabel Garcia-Cebrian, Lucia; Lera-Lopez, Fernando; Iraizoz, Belen								Performance Evaluation in the UEFA Champions League								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				18	5			448	470		10.1177/1527002515588135			JUN 2017	2017	This article aims to evaluate the sports performance of teams that have participated in the Union of European Football Associations (UEFA) Champions League (UCL) during the last 10 seasons (2004-2005 to 2013-2014). Technical efficiency is estimated using well-known data envelopment analysis (DEA) approaches and a bootstrapped DEA model. To solve the problem of measuring sporting results as output in knockout competitions, we propose the use of the coefficients applied by the UEFA from UCL revenue distribution. The results obtained show first that there is a high level of inefficiency in UCL over the period studied: Only 10% of the teams seem to be efficient. Also, the teams have many problems in maintaining their efficiency during the seasons. Second, the champion is always efficient. Third, we identify two sources of inefficiency: waste of sports resources and the selection of sporting tactics. Finally, from a methodological perspective, the output measure proposed seems to be suitable to represent reliably the sports results achieved by clubs in this qualifying competition type. Furthermore, our results are robust when applying alternative estimation methods. Regarding the results, some management implications are discussed and suggestions are made to boost the efficiency in inefficient clubs.		[Zambom-Ferraresi, Fabiola; Lera-Lopez, Fernando; Iraizoz, Belen] Univ Publ Navarra, Dept Econ, Arrosadia Campus Los Madronos Bldg, Pamplona 31006, Spain; [Isabel Garcia-Cebrian, Lucia] Univ Zaragoza, Dept Business Management & Org, Zaragoza, Spain; [Zambom-Ferraresi, Fabiola] Univ Publ Navarra, Dept Econ, Arrosadia Campus Los Madronos Bldg, Pamplona 31006, Spain								33							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000401013800002	39	Article; Article		
J	Murray, Andrew M.; Turner, Anthony P.; Sproule, John; Cardinale, Marco								Practices & attitudes towards recovery in elite Asian & UK adolescent athletes								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				25				25	33		10.1016/j.ptsp.2016.12.005			MAY 2017	2017	Objectives: Assess current practice and attitudes towards recovery in adolescent athletes. Design: Questionnaires were administered either via print or online questionnaire. Participants: Athletes and coaches from within Asia were surveyed (n = 112 & 53), with a comparative sample in the UK (n = 53 & 8). Main outcome measures: The approaches and attitudes to recovery in both training and competition. Results: Adolescent athletes perceive a variety of recovery modalities as important, though prioritise active recovery, nutrition and sleep. Attitudes towards recovery differed between athletes in Asia and the UK with respect to the perceived benefits of: sleep (96% believe in it in the UK v 69% in Asia, p < 0.01); nutrition (92 v 58%, p < 0.01); and active recovery (70 v 52%, p = 0.03). The number of recovery techniques used with Asian athletes was higher after training (p = 0.009) and competition (p < 0.01). Asian athletes rely more on 'feel' to justify interventions. Conclusions: There was a major disconnect amongst athletes' belief in particular strategies and their behaviours. The results of this study show the need for educating coaches and athletes. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Murray, Andrew M.; Cardinale, Marco] Aspire Acad, Sports Physiol Sport Sci, Doha, Qatar; [Murray, Andrew M.; Turner, Anthony P.; Sproule, John] Univ Edinburgh, Inst Sport PE & Hlth Sci, Edinburgh, Midlothian, Scotland; [Cardinale, Marco] UCL, Dept Comp Sci, London, England; [Cardinale, Marco] UCL, Inst Sport Exercise & Hlth, London, England; [Murray, Andrew M.] Aspire Acad, Sports Physiol Sport Sci, Doha, Qatar; [Murray, Andrew M.] Univ Edinburgh, Inst Sport PE & Hlth Sci, Edinburgh, Midlothian, Scotland								14							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000402946000005	36	Article; Article		
J	Knapman, Harry J.; Fallon, Tom; O'Connor, Matthew; Titmus, Lee A.; Choy, Sherrie T.; Hornsby, Claire; Marsden, Jon F.; Shum, Gary L.								The effect of elastic therapeutic taping on lumbar extensor isokinetic performance								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				25				9	14		10.1016/j.ptsp.2016.10.004			MAY 2017	2017	Objectives: To investigate the effects of elastic therapeutic tape when applied overlaying the lumbar extensors on different measures of muscle performance, compared to a placebo taping technique and a no-tape control. Design: A cross-sectional experimental study. Setting: A biomechanics laboratory. Participants: Twenty one participants received three taping conditions in a randomised order: elastic therapeutic tape, a placebo tape and a no-tape control. Peak torque, the time taken to reach peak torque and peak velocity were measured using an isokinetic dynamometer. Main outcome measures: Concentric lumbar extension peak torque at 60 /s, time taken to reach peak torque and peak velocity was measured using an isokinetic dynamometer. Friedman's test and post-hoc Wilcoxon signed-rank test were used to determine the statistical differences between the three taping conditions. Level of signicance was set at 0.05.fi. Results: A statistically significant improvement in peak lumbar extensor torque was observed when comparing elastic therapeutic tape with the no-tape control (p < 0.05). However, there was no significant differences in time taken to reach peak torque and peak velocity (p > 0.05). Conclusions: Results demonstrate that the application of elastic therapeutic tape overlaying the primary lumbar extensors significantly improves the maximal lumbar extension peak torque in healthy, asymptomatic adults. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Knapman, Harry J.; Fallon, Tom; O'Connor, Matthew; Titmus, Lee A.; Hornsby, Claire; Marsden, Jon F.] Plymouth Univ, Sch Hlth Prof, Plymouth, Devon, England; [Choy, Sherrie T.] NHS, Livewell Southwest, Plymouth, Devon, England; [Shum, Gary L.] Univ St Mark & St John, Fac Sport & Hlth Sci, Plymouth, Devon, England; [Shum, Gary L.] Univ St Mark & St John, Fac Sport & Hlth Sci, Plymouth, Devon, England								5							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000402946000002	30	Article; Article		
J	Driller, Matthew W.; Overmayer, Ryan G.								The effects of tissue flossing on ankle range of motion and jump performance								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				25				20	24		10.1016/j.ptsp.2016.12.004			MAY 2017	2017	Objectives: Tissue compression and partial vascular occlusion using band flossing results in re-perfusion of blood to the muscle tissue that may ultimately increase range of motion (ROM) and reduce risk of injury. However, the effect of band flossing on ankle ROM and jump performance is yet to be evaluated. Design: In a crossover design, participants performed a number of tests pre and post the application of a floss band to one ankle (FLOSS), with the contralateral ankle acting as the control (CON). Setting: University laboratory. Participants: 52 recreational athletes (29 male/23 female). Main outcome measures: Pre and post measures included a weight-bearing lunge test (WLBT), ankle dorsiflexion (DF) and plantarflexion (PF) ROM, and single leg vertical jump height and velocity. Results: FLOSS resulted in significant enhancements in all test measures pre to post (p < 0.01), with no significant changes pre to post for CON (p > 0.05). All pre to post changes were associated with small effect sizes for FLOSS compared to CON. Conclusion: Floss bands applied to the ankle increase dorsiflexion and plantarflexion ROM and improve single-leg jump performance in recreational athletes. The results from this study suggest that floss bands may be used for injury prevention and athletic performance. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Driller, Matthew W.; Overmayer, Ryan G.] Univ Waikato, Hamilton, New Zealand; [Driller, Matthew W.] Univ Waikato, Hamilton, New Zealand								68							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000402946000004	24	Article; Article		
J	Lee, Sun-Min; Lee, Jung-Hoon								The immediate effects of ankle balance taping with kinesiology tape on ankle active range of motion and performance in the Balance Error Scoring System								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				25				99	105		10.1016/j.ptsp.2016.08.013			MAY 2017	2017	Objectives: This study investigated the changes in ankle active range of motion (AROM) and performance on the Balance Error Scoring System (BESS) in cases in which no tape, placebo taping or ankle balance taping (ABT) with kinesiology tape was used. Design: Randomized cross-over trial. Setting: University laboratory. Participants: Fifteen physically active individuals (7 men, 8 women). Main outcome measurements: Postural control was assessed based on performances on the BESS. Active ankle flexibility was assessed by measuring the ankle AROM of both ankles under each taping condition in a random order at 1-week intervals. Results: The ankle AROM among the taping conditions were not significantly different. There were no significant differences in the error scores of single-leg and tandem stances on a firm surface among the taping conditions. Compared to those obtained in the absence of taping, the error scores of the single-leg and tandem stances on a foam surface were significantly lower with ABT, but they did not significantly differ from the placebo taping scores. Conclusions: This study showed that ABT with kinesiology tape immediately improved postural control on unstable surfaces without changes in ankle AROM. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Lee, Sun-Min] Daegu Univ, Coll Rehabil Sci, Dept Occupat Therapy, Daegu, South Korea; [Lee, Jung-Hoon] Dong Eui Univ, Coll Nursing & Healthcare Sci, Dept Phys Therapy, 176 Eomgwangno, Busan 614714, South Korea; [Lee, Jung-Hoon] Dong Eui Univ, Coll Nursing & Healthcare Sci, Dept Phys Therapy, 176 Eomgwangno, Busan 614714, South Korea								28							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000402946000016	43	Article; Article		
J	Swain, Christopher T. V.; Bradshaw, Elizabeth J.; Whyte, Douglas G.; Ekegren, Christina L.								Life history and point prevalence of low back pain in pre-professional and professional dancers								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				25				34	38		10.1016/j.ptsp.2017.01.005			MAY 2017	2017	Objectives: To investigate lifetime history and point prevalence of low back pain (LBP) in pre-professional and professional dancers and to identify any demographic or physical factors associated with LBP in dancers. Design: Cross-sectional study. Setting: One pre-professional ballet school, two pre-professional university dance programs, and a professional nationally touring ballet company. Participants: Male and female classical ballet and contemporary dancers aged 12 years old and above. Main outcome measures: Lifetime history and point prevalence of LBP. Results: A total of 110 (n = 19 male) dancers (mean (SD) 17.8 (2.9) years old) participated in the study, which represented 50% of the population invited to participate. A 74% lifetime prevalence of LBP was reported by dancers. Point and 12 month prevalence were 24 and 64%, respectively. No significant association was observed between LBP and any demographic or physical variables. Conclusion: Pre-professional and professional dancers have an increased vulnerability to LBP. The development of LBP within this population is complex and may not be associated with individual factors measured in this study. (C) 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Swain, Christopher T. V.; Bradshaw, Elizabeth J.; Whyte, Douglas G.] Australian Catholic Univ, Sch Exercise Sci, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Ekegren, Christina L.] Monash Univ, Dept Epidemiol & Prevent Med, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Swain, Christopher T. V.] Locked Bag 4115, Fitzroy, Vic 3065, Australia; [Swain, Christopher T. V.] Australian Catholic Univ, Sch Exercise Sci, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Swain, Christopher T. V.] Locked Bag 4115, Fitzroy, Vic 3065, Australia								22							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000402946000006	33	Article; Article		
J	Naaktgeboren, Kaitlin; Dorgo, Sandor; Boyle, Jason B.								Growth Plate Injuries in Children in Sports: A Review of Sever's Disease								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				39	2			59	68					APR 2017	2017	Sever's disease is a condition in children that may be the result of overuse. With sport involvement on the rise and an increasing number of training camps, facilities, and programs available for children overuse injuries have multiplied. The present article aims to review the characteristics of sever's disease through synthesizing available information, and to provide guidelines to recognize, treat, and prevent potential cases of sever's disease.		[Naaktgeboren, Kaitlin] Bells & Barbells, Dallas, TX USA; [Dorgo, Sandor; Boyle, Jason B.] Univ Texas El Paso, Dept Kinesiol, El Paso, TX 79968 USA; [Dorgo, Sandor] Univ Texas El Paso, Dept Kinesiol, El Paso, TX 79968 USA								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:000400010400008	58	Article; Article		
J	Cumming, Sean P.; Lloyd, Rhodri S.; Oliver, Jon L.; Eisennnann, Joey C.; Malina, Robert M.								Bio-banding in Sport: Applications to Competition, Talent Identification, and Strength and Conditioning of Youth Athletes								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				39	2			34	47					APR 2017	2017	Bio-banding is the process of grouping athletes on the basis of attributes associated with growth and maturation rather than chronological age. Children of the same age vary considerably in biological maturation with some individuals maturing in advance or delay of their peers. The timing of maturation has important implications for competition, talent identification, and training. Increased awareness and interest in the subject of maturation has sparked a renewed interest in the study and application of bio-banding. This overview describes the purpose and process of bio-banding, potential benefits and limitations, and describes some recent advances in its application in youth sports.		[Cumming, Sean P.] Univ Bath, Dept Hlth, Bath, Avon, England; [Lloyd, Rhodri S.; Oliver, Jon L.] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Youth Phys Dev Ctr, Cardiff, S Glam, Wales; [Lloyd, Rhodri S.; Oliver, Jon L.] Auckland Univ Technol, Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand, Auckland, New Zealand; [Eisennnann, Joey C.] Michigan State Univ, Coll Osteopath Med, E Lansing, MI 48824 USA; [Malina, Robert M.] Univ Texas Austin, Dept Kinesiol & Hlth Educ, Austin, TX 78712 USA; [Malina, Robert M.] Tarleton State Univ, Stephenville, TX USA; [Cumming, Sean P.] Univ Bath, Dept Hlth, Bath, Avon, England								337							Sport Sciences	WOS:000400010400006	87	Article; Article		
J	Barreiro, Joshua A.; Howard, Rick								Incorporating Unstructured Free Play into Organized Sports								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				39	2			11	19					APR 2017	2017	Play is an essential element of positive youth development. Youth should engage in all 3 types of play (unstructured, semistructured, and structured) to best promote physical literacy, motor skill proficiency and muscle strength, long-term athletic development, and fun. Unfortunately, however, emphasis is too often placed on structured play, such as playing on a sports team, potentially at the expense of motor skill mastery. Overuse, injury, and dropping out of sports are possible consequences of sports specialization. This article describes how play positively influences athleticism and lifetime participation in physical activity and recommends how to balance and integrate free play into sports practice.		[Barreiro, Joshua A.] West Chester Univ, Dept Kinesiol, W Chester, PA USA; [Howard, Rick] Rowan Univ, Dept Hlth & Exercise Sci, Glassboro, NJ 08028 USA; [Howard, Rick] West Chester Univ, Dept Exercise Sci, W Chester, PA 19382 USA; [Howard, Rick] Rowan Univ, Dept Hlth & Exercise Sci, Glassboro, NJ 08028 USA; [Howard, Rick] West Chester Univ, Dept Exercise Sci, W Chester, PA 19382 USA								15							Sport Sciences	WOS:000400010400003	84	Article; Article		
J	Jayanthi, Neeru A.; Dugas, Lara R.								The Risks of Sports Specialization in the Adolescent Female Athlete								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				39	2			20	26					APR 2017	2017	Single-sport specialized training has led to an emerging risk of overuse injury and burnout. However, much of the attention on this topic has focused on young male athletes with limited data available on females. The purpose of this article is to outline the potential risks and sports specific trends in the adolescent athletes, with an emphasis on sports specialization in females. There is emerging evidence of an increase in injuries and overuse injuries related to the degree of sports specialization in female athletes. Adolescent female athletes who specialize in a single sport and participate in individual sports should be monitored for potential increased risk of overuse injuries.		[Jayanthi, Neeru A.] Emory Sports Med Ctr, Johns Creek, GA 30097 USA; [Dugas, Lara R.] Loyola Univ Chicago, Stritch Sch Med, Dept Publ Hlth Sci, Maywood, IL USA; [Jayanthi, Neeru A.] Emory Sports Med Ctr, Johns Creek, GA 30097 USA								30							Sport Sciences	WOS:000400010400004	26	Article; Article		
J	Faigenbaum, Avery D.; Meadors, Larry								A Coach's Dozen: An Update on Building Healthy, Strong, and Resilient Young Athletes								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				39	2			27	33					APR 2017	2017	The "coach's dozen" is a collection of 12 principles that will help youth coaches, physical education teachers, and pediatric exercise specialists maintain inclusive, sustainable, and enjoyable participation in exercise and sport.		[Faigenbaum, Avery D.] Coll New Jersey, Dept Hlth & Exercise Sci, Ewing, NJ 08628 USA; [Meadors, Larry] Burnsville Publ Sch Syst, Burnsville, MN USA; [Faigenbaum, Avery D.] Coll New Jersey, Dept Hlth & Exercise Sci, Ewing, NJ 08628 USA								9							Sport Sciences	WOS:000400010400005	53	Article; Article		
J	Franceschini, Giordano; Terzini, Mara; Zanetti, Elisabetta M.								Learning curves of elite car racers								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				12	2			245	251		10.1177/1747954117694929			APR 2017	2017	This work is focused on racing cars driver's training. Nine different tracks are considered and six drivers. Each driver drives on every track and performs consecutive trial sessions on each track; each session is made of various laps, and lap times are fitted using an exponential model, yielding an estimate of the initial performance, the learning constant, and the asymptotic performance. According to results, the learning curve varies significantly among pilots and among tracks; all pilots reach their session asymptotic performance in less than nine laps. The asymptotic performance in consecutive trial sessions improves significantly, and it is strongly correlated to the initial session performance (r(2)>0.99). As a conclusion, it is more profitable to perform separated sessions made of few laps (less than 10) rather than performing a smaller number of longer sessions. Whenever the initial lap time stops decreasing systematically, trial sessions should end because the asymptotic performance is not likely to improve further.		[Franceschini, Giordano; Zanetti, Elisabetta M.] Univ Perugia, Dept Engn, Via Duranti 67, I-06125 Perugia, Italy; [Terzini, Mara] Politecn Torino, DIMEAS, Turin, Italy; [Zanetti, Elisabetta M.] Univ Perugia, Dept Engn, Via Duranti 67, I-06125 Perugia, Italy								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000399559000009	23	Article; Article		
J	Didymus, Faye F.; Fletcher, David								Organizational stress in high-level field hockey: Examining transactional pathways between stressors, appraisals, coping and performance satisfaction								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				12	2			252	263		10.1177/1747954117694737			APR 2017	2017	This study investigated transactional pathways between organizational stressors and their underpinning situational properties, appraisals, coping, perceived coping effectiveness and performance satisfaction in athletes. Ten high-level field hockey players were interviewed. Data relating to stressors, situational properties, appraisals and coping were analysed using directed content analysis. Mean perceived coping effectiveness scores were calculated and subjective performance satisfaction data were categorized as satisfied, neutral or dissatisfied. A variety of organizational stressors was reported, which were underpinned by five situational properties. Challenge, threat and harm/loss appraisals were experienced and problem solving was the most commonly reported family of coping. High perceived coping effectiveness was not always associated with performance satisfaction. Performance satisfaction was, however, linked to the appraisal experienced. A battery of stress management techniques and ways of coping is useful for optimizing appraisals and alleviating negative outcomes of stress.		[Didymus, Faye F.; Fletcher, David] Loughborough Univ, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England; [Didymus, Faye F.] Leeds Beckett Univ, Carnegie Res Inst, Headingley Campus, Leeds LS6 3QS, W Yorkshire, England								20							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000399559000010	39	Article; Article		
J	Michailov, Michail L.; Rokowski, Robert; Regwelski, Tomasz; Staszkiewicz, Robert; Brown, Lee E.; Szygula, Zbigniew								Physiological responses during two climbing tests with different hold types								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				12	2			276	283		10.1177/1747954117694740			APR 2017	2017	The purpose of this study was to investigate physiological responses to climbing with different hold types. Eight elite climbers (red-point achievements 8a - 9a, French grades) performed two climbing tests to failure which were steady in pace and uniform in wall inclination, distances between holds and hold deepness. Only the hold contact surface inclination was different. Duration of test 1 (111 +/- 54 s) was significantly (P=0.005) less than test 2 (255 +/- 127 s), but peak and average oxygen uptake (V.O-2), heart rate (HR) and post-climbing lactate concentrations were not different (P>0.05). Nevertheless, hold type had a greater impact on peak compared to average V.O-2 and HR. Peak V.O-2 and HR in test 1 and 2 were 34.1 +/- 4.8 versus 37 +/- 2.1 ml/min/kg and 166 +/- 16 versus 171 +/- 13 bpm, respectively. Average V.O-2 and HR were 28.2 +/- 2.7 versus 29.2 +/- 2.1 ml/min/kg and 154 +/- 15 versus 156 +/- 14 bpm. Duration of test 1 and percent lactate clearance were significantly correlated with red-point achievement (r=0.94, P=0.001 and r=0.75, P=0.033, respectively). Peak V.O-2 was significantly correlated with duration of test 1 (r=0.80, P=0.017) and average V.O-2 was significantly correlated with duration of test 2 (r=0.85, P=0.008). Different climbing hold types had no influence on either average or maximal V.O-2 and HR or on post-climbing lactate. Therefore, these variables could be used for performance evaluation but not as intensity indicators during training for sport climbing.		[Michailov, Michail L.] Natl Sports Acad, Dept Theory & Methodol Sports Training, Sofia, Bulgaria; [Michailov, Michail L.] Union Int Assoc Alpinisme UIAA MedCom, Med Commiss, Bern, Switzerland; [Rokowski, Robert; Regwelski, Tomasz] Univ Phys Educ Krakow, Dept Tourism & Recreat, Krakow, Poland; [Staszkiewicz, Robert] Univ Phys Educ Krakow, Dept Biomech, Krakow, Poland; [Brown, Lee E.] Calif State Univ Fullerton, Dept Kinesiol, 800 N State Coll Blvd, Fullerton, CA 92831 USA; [Szygula, Zbigniew] Univ Phys Educ, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Dept Sports Med & Human Nutr, Krakow, Poland; [Brown, Lee E.] Calif State Univ Fullerton, Dept Kinesiol, 800 N State Coll Blvd, Fullerton, CA 92831 USA								9							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000399559000012	40	Article; Article		
J	Lenten, Liam J. A.								A Formal Test for Asymmetry in the Uncertainty of Outcome Hypothesis								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				18	3			253	270		10.1177/1527002514567921			APR 2017	2017	The presence of asymmetry in the relation between attendances and competitive balance in the Australian Football League is tested, over the period 1945-2010. The results from the well-specified structural time-series model validate the uncertainty of outcome hypothesis, and the null of no asymmetry is rejected easily in the structural innovations of the series, although it is not rejected in the levels. The latter finding substantiates the reversibility (without net loss of demand) of league revenue-sharing and labor market policies that influence demand in professional sports leagues.		[Lenten, Liam J. A.] La Trobe Univ, Sch Econ, Bundoora, Vic 3086, Australia; [Lenten, Liam J. A.] La Trobe Univ, Sch Econ, Bundoora, Vic 3086, Australia								3							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000397189600003	28	Article; Article		
J	Jewell, R. Todd								The Effect of Marquee Players on Sports Demand: The Case of US Major League Soccer								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				18	3			239	252		10.1177/1527002514567922			APR 2017	2017	In 2007, Major League Soccer (MLS) changed its salary rules to allow teams to pay over the salary cap to sign high-priced talent. The first Designated Player was David Beckham. This study presents estimates of the influence of marquee players on MLS attendance using data from 2007 to 2012. The results indicate that few of the marquee signings drove higher attendance. Furthermore, these attendance effects tend to diminish over time. Specifically, only Beckham, Blanco, and Marquez generated excess fans in the games they played, with the largest effect in their first year. The results also give evidence of a superstar externality.		[Jewell, R. Todd] Texas State Univ, Dept Finance & Econ, 601 Univ Dr,McCoy Hall,Suite 504, San Marcos, TX 78666 USA; [Jewell, R. Todd] Texas State Univ, Dept Finance & Econ, 601 Univ Dr,McCoy Hall,Suite 504, San Marcos, TX 78666 USA								62							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000397189600002	24	Article; Article		
J	Kim, Eunkuk; Choi, Hokyung; Cha, Jung-Hoon; Park, Jong-Chul; Kim, Taegyu								Effects of Neuromuscular Training on the Rear-foot Angle Kinematics in Elite Women Field Hockey Players with Chronic Ankle Instability								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				16	1			137	146					MAR 2017	2017	The aims of this study were to investigate the ankle position, the changes and persistence of ankle kinematics after neuromuscular training in athletes with chronic ankle instability (CAI). A total of 21 national women's field hockey players participated (CAI = 12, control = 9). Ankle position at heel strike (HS), midstance (MS), and toe touch (TT) in the frontal plane during walking, running and landing were measured using 3D motion analysis. A 6-week neuromuscular training program was undertaken by the CAI group. Measurements of kinematic data for both groups were measured at baseline and the changes in kinematic data for CAI group were measured at 6 and 24 weeks. The kinematic data at HS during walking and running demonstrated that the magnitude of the eversion in the CAI group (-5.00 degrees and -4.21 degrees) was less than in the control group (-13.45 degrees and -9.62 degrees). The kinematic data at MS also exhibited less ankle eversion in the CAI group (-9.36 degrees and -8.18 degrees) than in the control group (-18.52 degrees and -15.88 degrees). Ankle positions at TT during landing were comparable between groups. Following the 6-week training, the CAI participants demonstrated a less everted ankle at HS during walking and running (-1.77 degrees and -1.76 degrees) compared to the previous positions. They also showed less ankle eversion at MS (-5.14 degrees and -4.19 degrees). Ankle orientation at TT changed significantly to an inverted ankle position (from -0.26 degrees to 4.11 degrees). The ankle kinematics were restored back to the previous positions at 24 weeks except for landing. It appeared that athletes with unstable ankle had a relatively inverted ankle position, and that 6-week neuromuscular training had an immediate effect on changing ankle orientation toward a less everted direction. The changed ankle kinematics seemed to persist during landing but not during walking and running.		[Kim, Eunkuk; Choi, Hokyung] Korea Natl Sport Univ, Dept Phys Educ, 1239 Yangjaedaero, Seoul, South Korea; [Cha, Jung-Hoon] Korea Natl Sport Univ, Dept Community Sports, Seoul, South Korea; [Park, Jong-Chul] Korea Inst Sport Sci, Dept Sport Sci, Seoul, South Korea; [Kim, Taegyu] Korean Olymp Comm, Taereung Natl Training Ctr, Dept Sports Med & Sci, Seoul, South Korea; [Choi, Hokyung] Korea Natl Sport Univ, Dept Phys Educ, 1239 Yangjaedaero, Seoul, South Korea								14							Sport Sciences	WOS:000395910900019	46	Article; Article		
J	McManus, Chris J.; Murray, Kelly A.; Parry, David A.								Applied Sports Nutrition Support, Dietary Intake and Body Composition Changes of a Female Athlete Completing 26 Marathons in 26 Days: A Case Study								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				16	1			112	116					MAR 2017	2017	The aim of this case study is to describe the nutrition practices of a female recreational runner (VO(2)max 48.9 ml.kg(-1).min(-1)) who completed 26 marathons (42.195 km) in 26 consecutive days. Information relating to the nutritional intake of female runners during multi-day endurance events is extremely limited, yet the number of people participating year-on-year continues to increase. This case study reports the nutrition intervention, dietary in take, body composition changes and performance in the lead-up and during the 26 days. Prior to undertaking the 26 marathon challenge, three consultations were held between the athlete and a sports nutrition advisor; planning and tailoring the general diet and race-specific strategies to the endurance challenge. During the marathons, the mean energy and fluid intake was 1039.7 +/- 207.9 kcal (607.1 - 1453.2) and 2.39 +/- 0.35 L (1.98 - 3.19). Mean hourly carbohydrate intake was 38.9 g.hr-1. 11 days following the completion of the 26 marathons, body mass had reduced by 4.6 kg and lean body mass increasing by 0.53 kg when compared with 20 days prior. This case study highlights the importance of providing general and event-specific nutrition education when training for such an event. This is particularly prudent for multi-day endurance running events.		[McManus, Chris J.; Murray, Kelly A.; Parry, David A.] Univ Essex, Ctr Sport & Exercise Sci, Colchester, Essex, England; [McManus, Chris J.] Univ Essex, Human Performance Unit, Room SC1-11,Wivenhoe Pk, Colchester CO4 3SQ, Essex, England								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:000395910900016	28	Article; Article		
J	Fort-Vanmeerhaeghe, Azahara; Montalvo, Alicia M.; Lloyd, Rhodri S.; Read, Paul; Myer, Gregory D.								Intra- and Inter-Rater Reliability of the Modified Tuck Jump Assessment								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				16	1			117	124					MAR 2017	2017	The Tuck Jump Assessment (TJA) is a clinician-friendly screening tool that was designed to support practitioners with identification of neuromuscular deficits associated with anterior cruciate ligament injury. This study aimed to evaluate the inter- and intra- rater reliability of the modified scoring (0 to 2) TJA to add an additional range of objectivity for each criterion. A total of 24 elite youth volleyball athletes (12 males and 12 females) were included in this study. Each participant's recorded performance of the TJA was scored independently by two raters across ten criteria using the modified scale. The two raters then scored the same videos one week later. Another investigator who was blind to the identity of the raters analyzed the scores from both raters for each participant. Kappa coefficient (k) and percentage of exact agreement (PEA) for both intra- and inter-rater reliability were analyzed for each item. Intraclass correlation coefficients (ICC) were calculated to determine intra-and inter-rater reliability of the modified TJA total score. Intra- and inter- rater k was good to excellent for most items (0.65- 0.91). Average PEA between the two raters and two sessions ranged from 83.3 to 100% in all scored items. The ICC for the total score was excellent in both inter- and inter- rater correlations (0.94- 0.96). This research demonstrated that the modified version of the TJA predominantly shows good to excellent intra- and inter-rater reliability in all analyzed criteria.		[Fort-Vanmeerhaeghe, Azahara] Univ Girona, Sch Hlth & Sport Sci EUSES, Salt, Spain; [Fort-Vanmeerhaeghe, Azahara] Univ Ramon Llull, Blanquerna Fac Psychol Educ Sci & Sport FPCEE, Barcelona, Spain; [Montalvo, Alicia M.] Florida Int Univ, Nicole Wertheim Coll Nursing & Hlth Sci, Dept Athlet Training, Miami, FL 33199 USA; [Lloyd, Rhodri S.] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Youth Phys Dev Unit, Cardiff, S Glam, Wales; [Lloyd, Rhodri S.] Auckland Univ Technol, SPRINZ, Auckland, New Zealand; [Lloyd, Rhodri S.] Waikato Inst Technol, Ctr Sport Sci & Human Performance, Hamilton, New Zealand; [Read, Paul] St Marys Univ, Sch Sport Hlth & Appl Sci, London, England; [Read, Paul] Aspetar Sports Med Hosp, Res Dept, Doha, Qatar; [Myer, Gregory D.] Cincinnati Childrens Hosp Med Ctr, Div Sports Med, Cincinnati, OH 45229 USA; [Myer, Gregory D.] Univ Cincinnati, Coll Med, Dept Pediat, Cincinnati, OH USA; [Myer, Gregory D.] Ohio State Univ, Med Ctr, Sports Hlth & Performance Inst, Sports Med, Columbus, OH 43210 USA; [Myer, Gregory D.] Micheli Ctr Sports Injury Prevent, Waltham, MA USA; [Fort-Vanmeerhaeghe, Azahara] Univ Girona, Sch Hlth & Sport Sci EUSES, Salt, Spain								37							Sport Sciences	WOS:000395910900017	33	Article; Article		
J	Montalvo, Alicia M.; Shaefer, Hilary; Rodriguez, Belinda; Li, Tan; Epnere, Katrina; Myer, Gregory D.								Retrospective Injury Epidemiology and Risk Factors for Injury in CrossFit								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				16	1			53	59					MAR 2017	2017	The objective of the study is to examine injury epidemiology and risk factors for injury in CrossFit athletes. A survey was administered to athletes at four owner-operated facilities in South Florida. Respondents reported number, location of injury, and training exposure from the preceding six months and answered questions regarding potential risk factors for injury. Fifty out of 191 athletes sustained 62 injuries during CrossFit participation in the preceding six months. The most frequently injured locations were the shoulder, knee, and lower back. Injury incidence was 2.3/1000 athlete training hours. Competitors were more likely to be injured (40% v 19%, p = 0.002) and had greater weekly athlete training hours (7.3 +/- 7.0 v 4.9 +/- 2.9, p < 0.001) than non-competitors. Athletes who reported injury also reported significantly higher values for the following risk factors: years of participation (2.7 +/- 1.8 v 1.8 +/- 1.5, p = 0.001), weekly athlete training hours (7.3 +/- 3.8 v 4.9 +/- 2.1, p = 0.020), weekly athlete-exposures (6.4 +/- 3.8 v 4.7 +/- 2.1, p = 0.003), height (1.72 +/- 0.09 m v 1.68 +/- 0.01 m, p = 0.011), and body mass (78.24 +/- 16.86 kg v 72.91 +/- 14.77 kg, p = 0.037). Injury rates during CrossFit and location of injuries were similar to those previously reported. Injury incidence was similar to related sports, including gymnastics and powerlifting. While being a competitor was related to injury, increased exposure and length of participation in CrossFit likely underlied this association. Specifically, increased exposure to training in the form of greater weekly athlete training hours and weekly participations may contribute to injury. Increased height and body mass were also related to injury which is likely reflective of increased load utilized during training. Further research is warranted to determine if biomechanical factors associated with greater height and ability to lift greater loads are modifiable factors that can be adapted to reduce the increase risk of injury during CrossFit.		[Montalvo, Alicia M.] Florida Int Univ, Athlet Training, Miami, FL 33199 USA; [Shaefer, Hilary; Rodriguez, Belinda] Florida Int Univ, Miami, FL 33199 USA; [Li, Tan; Epnere, Katrina] Florida Int Univ, Biostat, Miami, FL 33199 USA; [Li, Tan] Florida Int Univ, Integrated Biostat & Data Management Ctr, Miami, FL 33199 USA; [Myer, Gregory D.] Cincinnati Childrens Hosp Med Ctr, Res, Cincinnati, OH 45229 USA; [Myer, Gregory D.] Cincinnati Childrens Hosp Med Ctr, Human Performance Lab, Div Sports Med, Cincinnati, OH 45229 USA; [Montalvo, Alicia M.] Florida Int Univ, Nicole Wertheim Coll Nursing & Hlth Sci, Athlet Training Program, AHC 3-331, Miami, FL 33199 USA								79							Sport Sciences	WOS:000395910900008	25	Article; Article		
J	Mellick, Paul F.; Feger, Bryan J.; Oberlin, Douglas J.; Davis, Paul G.; Wideman, Laurie								High-Intensity Exercise and Carbohydrate Supplementation do not Alter Plasma Visfatin								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				16	1			69	76					MAR 2017	2017	The purpose of the study was to examine the effect of high-intensity exercise and carbohydrate supplementation (CHO) on plasma visfatin. On 2 separate days, 10 sprint-trained males (age = 26.4 +/- 5.3 yr; Ht = 1.77 +/- 0.03 m; Wt = 78.78 +/- 9.10 kg; BF% = 13.96 +/- 7.28%) completed 4, 3-min bouts of cycling at 50% mean anaerobic power, with 6 min of rest between bouts. On CHO day, subjects ingested 50g of CHO 30 min before exercise. On control day, subjects ingested a sugar-free drink (CON) 30 min before exercise. Blood was drawn before supplementation, 15 min before exercise, before and after each exercise bout, and 15 and 30 min post exercise. Visfatin, glucose, and insulin were determined. Truncal fat was assessed by dual energy x-ray. Visfatin was not significantly different between treatments (CHO vs CON) at any time point (p = 0.163), and was not significantly altered by exercise (p = 0.692). Insulin [25.65 vs 8.35 mU/l, CHO vs CON, respectively] and glucose [138.57 vs 98.10 mg/dl, CHO vs CON, respectively] were significantly elevated after CHO ingestion and remained elevated throughout the first half of exercise. Baseline visfatin was significantly correlated with truncal fat (r(2) = 0.7782, p < 0.05). Visfatin was correlated to truncal fat in sprint-trained males, but was not altered by exercise or CHO supplementation.		[Mellick, Paul F.] Univ St Thomas, Dept Hlth & Human Performance, St Paul, MN USA; [Feger, Bryan J.] Duke Univ, Med Ctr, Dept Psychiat & Behav Sci, Durham, NC USA; [Oberlin, Douglas J.; Davis, Paul G.; Wideman, Laurie] Univ North Carolina Greensboro, Dept Kinesiol, Greensboro, NC USA; [Mellick, Paul F.] Mail 4004,2115 Summit Ave, St Paul, MN 55105 USA								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:000395910900010	40	Article; Article		
J	Goods, Paul S. R.; Landers, Grant; Fulton, Sacha								Caffeine Ingestion Improves Repeated Freestyle Sprints in Elite Male Swimmers								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				16	1			93	98					MAR 2017	2017	The purpose of this investigation was to determine the efficacy of a moderate dose of caffeine to improve repeat-sprint performance in elite freestyle sprinters. Nine highly trained male swimmers performed 6 x 75 m freestyle sprints on two occasions 1-h after consuming either 3 mg.kg(-1) caffeine (CAF), or placebo, in a cross-over manner. Capillary blood samples for the analysis of blood lactate concentration and pH were collected after the 1(st), 3(rd), and 5(th) sprint, while heart rate and perceived exertion (RPE) were collected after every sprint. There was a moderate effect for improved mean sprint time in the CAF condition (0.52 s; 1.3%; d = 0.50). When assessed individually, there was a large effect for improved performance in sprints 3 (1.00 s; 2.5%; d = 1.02) and 4 (0.84 s; 2.1%; d = 0.84) in CAF compared to placebo, with worthwhile performance improvement found for each of the first 5 sprints. There was a significant treatment effect for higher blood lactate concentration for CAF (p = 0.029), and a significant treatment*time effect for reduced pH in the CAF condition (p = 0.004). Mean heart rate (167 +/- 9 bpm vs 169 +/- 7 bpm) and RPE (17 +/- 1 vs 17 +/- 1) were not different between placebo and CAF trials, respectively. This investigation is the first to demonstrate enhanced repeat-sprint ability in swimmers following acute caffeine ingestion. It appears likely that the combination of a moderate dose of caffeine (3-6 mg.kg(-1)) with trained athletes is most likely to enhance repeat-sprint ability in various athletic populations; however, the exact mechanism(s) for an improved repeat-sprint ability following acute caffeine ingestion remain unknown.		[Goods, Paul S. R.; Landers, Grant] Univ Western Australia, Sch Sport Sci Exercise & Hlth, Nedlands, WA, Australia; [Goods, Paul S. R.; Fulton, Sacha] Western Australian Inst Sport, Dept Physiol, Mt Claremont, WA, Australia; [Goods, Paul S. R.] Univ Western Australia, Sch Sport Sci Exercise & Hlth, Nedlands, WA, Australia								11							Sport Sciences	WOS:000395910900013	24	Article; Article		
J	Serefoglu, Abdullah; Sekir, Ufuk; Gur, Hakan; Akova, Bedrettin								Effects of Static and Dynamic Stretching on the Isokinetic Peak Torques and Electromyographic Activities of the Antagonist Muscles								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				16	1			6	13					MAR 2017	2017	The aim of this study was to investigate if static and dynamic stretching exercises of the knee muscles (quadriceps and hamstring muscles) have any effects on concentric and eccentric isokinetic peak torques and electromyographic amplitudes (EMG) of the antagonist muscles. Twenty healthy male athletes (age between 18-30 years) voluntarily participated in this study. All of the subjects visited the laboratory to complete the following intervention in a randomized order on 5 separate days; (a) non-stretching (control), (b) static stretching of the quadriceps muscles, (c) static stretching of the hamstring muscles, (d) dynamic stretching of the quadriceps muscles, and (e) dynamic stretching of the hamstring muscles. Static stretching exercises either for the quadriceps or the hamstring muscles were carried out at the standing and sitting positions. Subjects performed four successive repetitions of each stretching exercises for 30 seconds in both stretching positions. Similar to static stretching exercises two different stretching modes were designed for dynamic stretching exercises. Concentric and eccentric isokinetic peak torque for the non-stretched antagonist quadriceps or hamstring muscles at angular velocities of 60(omicron)/sec and 240(omicron)/sec and their concurrent electromyographic (EMG) activities were measured before and immediately after the intervention. Isokinetic peak torques of the non-stretched agonist hamstring and quadriceps muscles did not represent any significant (p > 0.05) differences following static and dynamic stretching of the antagonist quadriceps and hamstring muscles, respectively. Similarly, the EMG activities of the agonist muscles exhibited no significant alterations (p > 0.05) following both stretching exercises of the antagonist muscles. According to the results of the present study it is possible to state that antagonist stretching exercises either in the static or dynamic modes do not affect the isokinetic peak torques and the EMG activities of the non-stretched agonist quadriceps or hamstring muscles.		[Serefoglu, Abdullah; Sekir, Ufuk; Gur, Hakan; Akova, Bedrettin] Uludag Univ, Dept Sports Med, Sch Med, TR-16059 Bursa, Turkey; [Sekir, Ufuk] Uludag Univ, Dept Sports Med, Sch Med, TR-16059 Bursa, Turkey								27							Sport Sciences	WOS:000395910900002	31	Article; Article		
J	Dubois, Romain; Paillard, Thierry; Lyons, Mark; McGrath, David; Maurelli, Olivier; Prioux, Jacques								Running and Metabolic Demands of Elite Rugby Union Assessed Using Traditional, Metabolic Power, and Heart Rate Monitoring Methods								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				16	1			84	92					MAR 2017	2017	The aims of this study were (1) to analyze elite rugby union game demands using 3 different approaches: traditional, metabolic and heart rate-based methods (2) to explore the relationship between these methods and (3) to explore positional differences between the backs and forwards players. Time motion analysis and game demands of fourteen professional players (24.1 +/- 3.4 y), over 5 European challenge cup games, were analyzed. Thresholds of 14.4 km.h(-1), 20 W.kg(-1) and 85% of maximal heart rate (HRmax) were set for high-intensity efforts across the three methods. The mean % of HRmax was 80.6 +/- 4.3 % while 42.2 +/- 16.5% of game time was spent above 85% of HRmax with no significant differences between the forwards and the backs. Our findings also show that the backs cover greater distances at high-speed than forwards (% difference: +35.2 +/- 6.6%; p<0.01) while the forwards cover more distance than the backs (+26.8 +/- 5.7%; p<0.05) in moderate-speed zone (10-14.4 km.h(-1)). However, no significant difference in high-metabolic power distance was found between the backs and forwards. Indeed, the high-metabolic power distances were greater than high-speed running distances of 24.8 +/- 17.1% for the backs, and 53.4 +/- 16.0% for the forwards with a significant difference (+29.6 +/- 6.0% for the forwards; p<0.001) between the two groups. Nevertheless, nearly perfect correlations were found between the total distance assessed using the traditional approach and the metabolic power approach (r = 0.98). Furthermore, there is a strong association (r = 0.93) between the highspeed running distance (assessed using the traditional approach) and the high-metabolic power distance. The HR monitoring methods demonstrate clearly the high physiological demands of professional rugby games. The traditional and the metabolicpower approaches shows a close correlation concerning their relative values, nevertheless the difference in absolute values especially for the high-intensity thresholds demonstrates that the metabolic power approach may represent an interesting alternative to the traditional approaches used in evaluating the highintensity running efforts required in rugby union games.		[Dubois, Romain; Paillard, Thierry] Univ Pau & Pays Adour, Lab Phys Act Performance & Hlth EA 4445, Tarbes, France; [Lyons, Mark; McGrath, David] Univ Limerick, Dept Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Biomech Res Unit, Limerick, Ireland; [Maurelli, Olivier] Fac Picardie, Exercise Physiol & Rehabil Lab EA 3300 APERE, Rennes, France; [Prioux, Jacques] Fac Sport Sci, Movement Sport & Hlth Lab EA 1274, Rennes, France; [Dubois, Romain] CA Brive Correze Limousin Rugby Club, Rennes, France; [Dubois, Romain] Univ Pau & Pays Adour, Lab Phys Act Performance & Hlth EA 4445, Tarbes, France								41							Sport Sciences	WOS:000395910900012	37	Article; Article		
J	Rossi, Fabrcio Eduardo; Landreth, Andrew; Beam, Stacey; Jones, Taylor; Norton, Layne; Cholewa, Jason Michael								The Effects of a Sports Nutrition Education Intervention on Nutritional Status, Sport Nutrition Knowledge, Body Composition, and Performance during Off Season Training in NCAA Division I Baseball Players								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				16	1			60	68					MAR 2017	2017	This study investigated the effects of a sport nutrition education intervention (SNEI) on dietary intake, knowledge, body composition, and performance in NCAA Division I baseball players. Resistance trained NCAA Division I baseball players (82.4 +/- 8.2 kg; 1.83 +/- 0.06 m; 13.7 +/- 5 % body fat) participated in the study during 12 weeks of off-season training. Fifteen players volunteered for SNEI while 15 players matched for position served as controls (C) for body composition and performance. The nutrition intervention group (NI) received a 90 min SNEI encompassing energy intake (Kcal), carbohydrate (CHO), protein (PRO), fat, food sources, and hydration. Sport nutrition knowledge questionnaires were administered to NI pre and post. Nutritional status was determined by three-day dietary logs administered to NI pre and post. Body composition and performance (5-10-5 shuttle test, vertical jump, broad jump, 1 RM squat) were measured pre and post for C and NI. Knowledge increased in NI. Pro and fat, but not CHO intake increased in NI. FM decreased pre to post in NI (11.5 +/- 4.8 vs. 10.5 +/- 5.4 kg) but not C (11.3 +/- 4.7 vs. 11.9 +/- 4.5 kg). FFM increased pre to post with no differences between groups. The 5-10-5 shuttle times decreased significantly more in NI (4.58 +/- 0.15 vs. 4.43 +/- 0.13 sec) compared to C (4.56 +/- 0.18 vs. 4.50 +/- 0.16 sec). Jump and squat performance increased pre to post with no differences between groups. Our findings indicate that an off season SNEI is effective at improving sport nutrition knowledge and some, but not all, nutrient intakes and performance measures in Division I baseball players.		[Rossi, Fabrcio Eduardo; Landreth, Andrew; Beam, Stacey; Cholewa, Jason Michael] Coastal Carolina Univ, Dept Kinesiol, POB 261954,Williams Brice 101A,843-349-2041, Conway, SC 29528 USA; [Rossi, Fabrcio Eduardo] Univ Estadual Paulista, Dept Phys Educ, Inst Biosci, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Jones, Taylor] Coastal Carolina Univ, Strength Speed & Conditioning, Conway, SC USA; [Norton, Layne] BioLayne LLC, Lutz, FL USA; [Cholewa, Jason Michael] Coastal Carolina Univ, Dept Kinesiol, POB 261954,Williams Brice 101A,843-349-2041, Conway, SC 29528 USA								78							Sport Sciences	WOS:000395910900009	35	Article; Article		
J	Inglis, Paul; Bird, Stephen P.								Movement Demands and Running Intensities of Semi-Professional Rugby League Players during A 9's Tournament: A Case Study								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				16	1			22	26					MAR 2017	2017	The objective of the study was to describe the movement demands and running intensities of semi-professional rugby league players during a rugby league 9's (RL9's) tournament. Six semiprofessional rugby league players competed in a RL9's tournament over a two-day period comprising of six games. Movement demands and running intensities were recorded using Global Positioning System (GPS) devices providing data on distance and speeds. Data is presented as mean (95% Confidence Intervals) with changes (>= 75%) likely to exceed the smallest worthwhile change (0.2) considered practically important. Outside backs performed significantly (p < 0.05) more relative VHSR (3.9 m [3.5-4.3] vs 2.4 m [2.1-2.8]) absolute (97.7 m [81.3 - 114.1] vs 22.6m [15.8 - 29.3]) and relative (5.0 m center dot min(-1) [4.2 - 5.9] vs 1.2 m center dot min(-1) [0.8 - 1.6]) sprint distance than the forwards. Outside backs also performed significantly (p < 0.05) more absolute (97.7 m [81.3 - 114.1] vs 43.9 m [27.2 - 60.7]) and relative (5.0 m center dot min(-1) [4.2 - 5.9] vs 2.3 m center dot min(-1) [1.4 - 3.2]) sprint distance than the adjustables. Moderate (0.6 - 1.2) to very large (> 2.0) decreases in performance variables were observed over the two days. The biggest magnitude of change over the two days was seen with very large decreases in relative HSR (- 2.10) and sprint (- 2.14) distance. Between playing groups, the outside backs had the biggest decrease in running intensity with a very large (- 2.32) significant (p < 0.05) decrease in VHSR on day 2 (3.3 m center dot min(-1) [2.5 - 4.1]) compared to day 1 (4.9 m center dot min(-1) [4.4 - 5.4]). Running intensities are decreased during an intensified RL9's tournament in semiprofessional rugby league players. The observed decreases in running performances between playing groups are in agreement with previous research and may support the use of individualized player monitoring and recovery management during a RL9's tournament-style competition.		[Inglis, Paul; Bird, Stephen P.] James Cook Univ, Sport & Exercise Sci, Coll Healthcare Sci, Cairns, Qld, Australia; [Inglis, Paul; Bird, Stephen P.] Northern Pride Rugby League, High Performance Unit, Cairns, Qld, Australia; [Bird, Stephen P.] James Cook Univ, Coll Healthcare Sci, Sport & Exercise Sci High Performance Sport Initi, POB 6811, Cairns, Qld 4870, Australia								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:000395910900004	22	Article; Article		
J	Psaila, Matthew; Ranson, Craig								Risk factors for lower leg, ankle and foot injuries during basic military training in the Maltese Armed Forces								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				24				7	12		10.1016/j.ptsp.2016.09.004			MAR 2017	2017	Objectives: Basic military training is physically and psychologically demanding placing recruits at high risk of injury and premature discharge. This study aimed to identify risk factors for lower leg, ankle and foot injury in Maltese military recruits during basic training. Design: This was a prospective cohort study. Setting: An armed forces barracks. Participants: 127 recruits commencing one basic military training course agreed to participate in the study. The cohort comprised 114 males and 13 females with a mean age of 21.7 2.4 years. Main outcome measures: All injuries to the lower leg, ankle and foot were recorded using the Orchard Sports Injury Classification System. Injuries were analysed for associations with fitness scores, smoking status, body mass index and foot type. Results: A total of 34 (26.2%) recruits sustained at least one injury, with 10 recruits (7.9%) terminating their training prematurely (three due to musculoskeletal injury). Smoking history, body mass index and foot type were not associated with injury risk. Lower fitness levels at the commencement of basic military training compared with fitness levels measured six months prior, were associated with higher injury risk. Conclusions: Lower fitness at the commencement of basic training was associated with higher injury risk in army recruits. Thus, conditioning programmes aimed at improving recruit fitness should be considered within an injury prevention strategy. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Psaila, Matthew] Armed Forces Malta, Med Ctr, Luqa Barracks, Malta; [Ranson, Craig] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Cardiff Sch Sport, Sports Injury Res Grp, Cardiff, S Glam, Wales; [Psaila, Matthew] 16 Pjazza ES Tonna, Floriana, Malta								18							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000397833400002	43	Article; Article		
J	Roth, Ralf; Donath, Lars; Kurz, Eduard; Zahner, Lukas; Faude, Oliver								Absolute and relative reliability of isokinetic and isometric trunk strength testing using the IsoMed-2000 dynamometer								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				24				26	31		10.1016/j.ptsp.2016.11.005			MAR 2017	2017	Objectives: The present study aimed to assess the between day reliability of isokinetic and isometric peak torque (PT) during trunk measurement on an isokinetic device (IsoMed 2000). Design: Test-retest-protocol on five separate days. Participants: Fifteen healthy sport students (8 female and 7 male) aged 21 to 26. Main Outcome Measures: PT was assessed in isometric back extension and flexion as well as right and left rotation. Isokinetic strength was captured at a speed of 60 degrees/s and 150 degrees/s for all tasks. Results: For none of the assessed parameters a meaningful variation in PT during test days was observed. Relative reliability (ICC = 0.85-0.96) was excellent for all tasks. Estimates of absolute reliability as Coefficient of Variation (CoV) and Standard Error of Measurement (SEM in Nm/kg lean body mass) remained stable for isometric (6.9% < CoV < 9.4%; 0.15 < SEM < 0.23) and isokinetic mode (60 degrees/s: 3.7% < CoV < 8.6%; 0.08 < SEM < 0.24; 150 degrees/s: 6.9% < CoV < 12.4%; 0.10 < SEM < 031). In contrast, reliability between familiarization day and day 1 was lower (6.6% < CoV < 26.2%; 0.10 < SEM < 0.65). Conclusions: Trunk strength measurement in flexion and extension or trunk rotation in either isometric or isokinetic condition is highly reliable. Therefore, it seems possible to elucidate changes which are smaller than 10% due to intervention programs when a preceding familiarization condition was applied. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Roth, Ralf; Donath, Lars; Kurz, Eduard; Zahner, Lukas; Faude, Oliver] Univ Basel, Dept Sport Exercise & Hlth, Birsstr 320B, CH-4052 Basel, Switzerland; [Kurz, Eduard] Jena Univ Hosp, Div Motor Res Pathophysiol & Biomech, Clin Trauma Hand & Reconstruct Surg, Bachstr 18, D-07743 Jena, Germany; [Roth, Ralf] Univ Basel, Dept Sport Exercise & Hlth, Birsstr 320B, CH-4052 Basel, Switzerland								73							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000397833400005	37	Article; Article		
J	Azevedo, Renato R.; da Rocha, Emmanuel S.; Franco, Pedro S.; Carpes, Felipe P.								Plantar pressure asymmetry and risk of stress injuries in the foot of young soccer players								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				24				39	43		10.1016/j.ptsp.2016.10.001			MAR 2017	2017	Background: Asymmetries in the magnitude of plantar pressure are considered a risk factor for stress fracture of the fifth metatarsal in soccer athletes. Objective: To investigate the presence of plantar pressure asymmetries among young soccer athletes. Design: Observational. Setting: Laboratory. Participants: Thirty young adolescents divided into a soccer player group (n = 15) or a matched control group (n = 15). Main outcome measures: Mean plantar pressure was determined for seven different regions of the foot. Data were compared between the preferred and non-preferred foot, and between the groups, during barefoot standing on a pressure mat system. Results: Higher pressure was found in the hallux, 5th metatarsal and medial rearfoot of the non preferred foot in the young soccer players. These asymmetries were not observed in the control group. Magnitudes of plantar pressure did not differ between the groups. Conclusion: Young soccer players present asymmetries in plantar pressure in the hallux, 5th metatarsal and medial rearfoot, with higher pressure observed in the non-preferred foot. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Azevedo, Renato R.; da Rocha, Emmanuel S.; Franco, Pedro S.; Carpes, Felipe P.] Fed Univ Pampa, Appl Neuromech Res Grp, Fac Hlth Sci, Uruguaiana, RS, Brazil; [Azevedo, Renato R.; da Rocha, Emmanuel S.; Franco, Pedro S.; Carpes, Felipe P.] Univ Fed Santa Maria, Grad Program Phys Educ, Phys Educ & Sports Ctr, Santa Maria, RS, Brazil; [Carpes, Felipe P.] Fed Univ Pampa, Lab Neuromech, BR 472 Km 592, BR-97500970 Uruguaiana, RS, Brazil								34							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000397833400007	23	Article; Article		
J	Keenan, Karen A.; Akins, Jonathan S.; Varnell, Michelle; Abt, John; Lovalekar, Mita; Lephart, Scott; Sell, Timothy C.								Kinesiology taping does not alter shoulder strength, shoulder proprioception, or scapular kinematics in healthy, physically active subjects and subjects with Subacromial Impingement Syndrome								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				24				60	66		10.1016/j.ptsp.2016.06.006			MAR 2017	2017	Objective: To examine the effect of kinesiology tape (KT) on shoulder strength, proprioception, and scapular kinematics in healthy and Subacromial Impingement Syndrome (SAIS) subjects. Design: Placebo-controlled quasi-experimental study. Setting: Research laboratory. Participants: A total of 30 physically active subjects participated. Ten healthy subjects with no previous history of shoulder pathology received KT on the dominant shoulder. Twenty subjects with shoulder pain for a minimum of two weeks and presenting with clinical signs of impingement were allotted to receive KT (n = 10) or placebo taping (PT, n = 10) on the involved shoulder. Main outcome measures: All participants were tested pre- and post-application. Shoulder internal/external rotation (IR/ER) strength was assessed with isokinetic dynamometry (average peak torque/body weight). Shoulder IR/ER proprioception was assessed through threshold to detect passive motion (mean absolute error in degrees). Scapular position at 90 and 120 of shoulder abduction during arm raising/lowering were assessed using a 3D motion analysis system. Results: No significant within group or between group differences were demonstrated for any measure. Conclusions: Taping does not appear to aid/impair shoulder strength, shoulder proprioception, or scapular kinematics. Future research should explore if the effects of KT are time-dependent and similar in other pathologies. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Keenan, Karen A.; Lovalekar, Mita] Univ Pittsburgh, Dept Sports Med & Nutr, Neuromuscular Res Lab, 3830 South Water St, Pittsburgh, PA 15203 USA; [Akins, Jonathan S.] Widener Univ, Sch Engn, Dept Biomed Engn, Chester, PA 19013 USA; [Varnell, Michelle] Salem State Univ, Dept Sport & Movement Sci, Salem, MA 01970 USA; [Abt, John; Lephart, Scott] Univ Kentucky, Coll Hlth Sci, Sports Med Res Ctr, Jr Bldg, Lexington, KY 40536 USA; [Sell, Timothy C.] Duke Univ, Michael W Krzyzewski Human Performance Lab, DUMC 102916, Durharh, NC 27705 USA; [Keenan, Karen A.] Univ Pittsburgh, Dept Sports Med & Nutr, Neuromuscular Res Lab, 3830 South Water St, Pittsburgh, PA 15203 USA								37							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000397833400010	34	Article; Article		
J	Blache, Yoann; Creveaux, Thomas; Dumas, Raphael; Cheze, Laurence; Rogowski, Isabelle								Glenohumeral contact force during flat and topspin tennis forehand drives								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				16	1			127	142		10.1080/14763141.2016.1216585			MAR 2017	2017	The primary role of the shoulder joint in tennis forehand drive is at the expense of the loadings undergone by this joint. Nevertheless, few studies investigated glenohumeral (GH) contact forces during forehand drives. The aim of this study was to investigate GH compressive and shearing forces during the flat and topspin forehand drives in advanced tennis players. 3D kinematics of flat and topspin forehand drives of 11 advanced tennis players were recorded. The Delft Shoulder and Elbow musculoskeletal model was implemented to assess the magnitude and orientation of GH contact forces during the forehand drives. The results showed no differences in magnitude and orientation of GH contact forces between the flat and topspin forehand drives. The estimated maximal GH contact force during the forward swing phase was 3573 +/- 1383N, which was on average 1.25 times greater than during the follow-through phase, and 5.8 times greater than during the backswing phase. Regardless the phase of the forehand drive, GH contact forces pointed towards the anterior-superior part of the glenoid therefore standing for shearing forces. Knowledge of GH contact forces during real sport tasks performed at high velocity may improve the understanding of various sport-specific adaptations and causative factors for shoulder problems.		[Blache, Yoann; Creveaux, Thomas; Rogowski, Isabelle] Univ Claude Bernard Lyon, Inter Univ Lab Human Movement Biol, Lyon, France; [Dumas, Raphael; Cheze, Laurence] Univ Claude Bernard Lyon, Biomechan & Impact Mech Lab, Lyon, France; [Blache, Yoann] Univ Claude Bernard Lyon, Inter Univ Lab Human Movement Biol, Lyon, France								12							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000395034900011	40	Article; Article		
J	Imura, Akiko; Iino, Yoichi								Comparison of lower limb kinetics during vertical jumps in turnout and neutral foot positions by classical ballet dancers								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				16	1			87	101		10.1080/14763141.2016.1205122			MAR 2017	2017	The purpose of this study was to investigate the effect of hip external rotation (turnout) on lower limb kinetics during vertical jumps by classical ballet dancers. Vertical jumps in a turnout (TJ) and a neutral hip position (NJ) performed by 12 classical female ballet dancers were analysed through motion capture, recording of the ground reaction forces, and inverse dynamics analysis. At push-off, the lower trunk leaned forward 18.2 degrees and 20.1 degrees in the TJ and NJ, respectively. The dancers jumped lower in the TJ than in the NJ. The knee extensor and hip abductor torques were smaller, whereas the hip external rotator torque was larger in the TJ than in the NJ. The work done by the hip joint moments in the sagittal plane was 0.28J/(Body mass*Height) and 0.33J/(Body mass*Height) in the TJ and NJ, respectively. The joint work done by the lower limbs were not different between the two jumps. These differences resulted from different planes in which the lower limb flexion-extension occurred, i.e. in the sagittal or frontal plane. This would prevent the forward lean of the trunk by decreasing the hip joint work in the sagittal plane and reduce the knee extensor torque in the jump.		[Imura, Akiko; Iino, Yoichi] Univ Tokyo, Grad Sch Arts & Sci, Dept Sports Sci, Tokyo, Japan; [Imura, Akiko] Univ Tokyo, Grad Sch Arts & Sci, Dept Sports Sci, Tokyo, Japan								24							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000395034900008	27	Article; Article		
J	Bardella, Paolo; Carrasquilla Garcia, Irene; Pozzo, Marco; Tous-Fajardo, Julio; Saez de Villareal, Eduardo; Suarez-Arrones, Luis								Optimal sampling frequency in recording of resistance training exercises								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				16	1			102	114		10.1080/14763141.2016.1205652			MAR 2017	2017	The purpose of this study was to analyse the raw lifting speed collected during four different resistance training exercises to assess the optimal sampling frequency. Eight physically active participants performed sets of Squat Jumps, Countermovement Jumps, Squats and Bench Presses at a maximal lifting speed. A linear encoder was used to measure the instantaneous speed at a 200Hz sampling rate. Subsequently, the power spectrum of the signal was computed by evaluating its Discrete Fourier Transform. The sampling frequency needed to reconstruct the signals with an error of less than 0.1% was f(99.9) = 11.615 +/- 2.680Hz for the exercise exhibiting the largest bandwidth, with the absolute highest individual value being 17.467Hz. There was no difference between sets in any of the exercises. Using the closest integer sampling frequency value (25Hz) yielded a reconstruction of the signal up to 99.975 +/- 0.025% of its total in the worst case. In conclusion, a sampling rate of 25Hz or above is more than adequate to record raw speed data and compute power during resistance training exercises, even under the most extreme circumstances during explosive exercises. Higher sampling frequencies provide no increase in the recording precision and may instead have adverse effects on the overall data quality.		[Bardella, Paolo] Politecn Torino Univ, Elect & Telecommun Dept, Turin, Italy; [Carrasquilla Garcia, Irene; Saez de Villareal, Eduardo; Suarez-Arrones, Luis] Pablo de Olavide Univ, Sports Sch, Sports Dept, Seville, Spain; [Pozzo, Marco; Saez de Villareal, Eduardo; Suarez-Arrones, Luis] Pablo de Olavide Univ, Res Dept, Seville, Spain; [Pozzo, Marco] SmartCoach Europe AB, Stockholm, Sweden; [Tous-Fajardo, Julio] Italian Natl Football Team FIGC, Strength & Conditioning Dept, Florence, Italy; [Suarez-Arrones, Luis] Pablo de Olavide Univ, Sports Sch, Sports Dept, Seville, Spain; [Suarez-Arrones, Luis] Pablo de Olavide Univ, Res Dept, Seville, Spain								25							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000395034900009	28	Article; Article		
J	Laschowski, Brock; Hopkins, Cameron C.; de Bruyn, John R.; Nolte, Volker								Modelling the deflection of rowing oar shafts								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				16	1			76	86		10.1080/14763141.2016.1194890			MAR 2017	2017	The deflection of rowing oar shafts subjected to a static load was investigated. Two sets of sculling oars of different design stiffness were tested at three different lengths from 2.66 to 2.70m. Loads up to 201N were applied to the blade end of the oar shafts, and deflections were measured at six positions along the length of the shafts. The experimental results were compared with theoretical predictions obtained by modelling the oar shafts as homogenous end-loaded cantilever beams. The results show that the oar shafts are not uniform, in contradiction to the assumed model, but rather are most compliant near the sleeves and up to 80% stiffer towards the blades. The effect of oar shaft stiffness and length on the deflection angle at the blade end of the oar shaft was at most 1.18 +/- 0.01 degrees. The measured variation of stiffness along the shaft has implications for boat propulsion and rowing performance.		[Laschowski, Brock; Nolte, Volker] Univ Western Ontario, Sch Kinesiol, London, ON, Canada; [Hopkins, Cameron C.; de Bruyn, John R.] Univ Western Ontario, Dept Phys & Astron, London, ON, Canada; [Laschowski, Brock] Univ Western Ontario, Sch Kinesiol, London, ON, Canada								6							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000395034900007	16	Article; Article		
J	Stirn, Igor; Carruthers, Jamie; Sibila, Marko; Pori, Primoz								Frequent Immediate Knowledge of Results Enhances the Increase of Throwing Velocity in Overarm Handball Performance								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				56	1			197	205		10.1515/hukin-2017-0037			FEB 2017	2017	In the present study, the effect of frequent, immediate, augmented feedback on the increase of throwing velocity was investigated. An increase of throwing velocity of a handball set shot when knowledge of results was provided or not provided during training was compared. Fifty female and seventy-three male physical education students were assigned randomly to the experimental or control group. All participants performed two series of ten set shots with maximal effort twice a week for six weeks. The experimental group received information regarding throwing velocity measured by a radar gun immediately after every shot, whereas the control group did not receive any feedback. Measurements of maximal throwing velocity of an ordinary handball and a heavy ball were performed, before and after the training period and compared. Participants who received feedback on results attained almost a four times greater relative increase of the velocity of the normal ball (size 2) as compared to the same intervention when feedback was not provided (8.1 +/- 3.6 vs. 2.7 +/- 2.9%). The velocity increases were smaller, but still significant between the groups for throws using the heavy ball (5.1 +/- 4.2 and 2.5 +/- 5.8 for the experimental and control group, respectively). Apart from the experimental group throwing the normal ball, no differences in velocity change for gender were obtained. The results confirmed that training oriented towards an increase in throwing velocity became significantly more effective when frequent knowledge of results was provided.		[Stirn, Igor; Sibila, Marko; Pori, Primoz] Univ Ljubljana, Fac Sport, Gortanova 22, Ljubljana 1000, Slovenia; [Carruthers, Jamie] Al Attar Clin Phys Med & Rehabil & Sports Med, Doha, Qatar; [Stirn, Igor] Univ Ljubljana, Fac Sport, Gortanova 22, Ljubljana 1000, Slovenia								7							Sport Sciences	WOS:000396924300021	32	Article; Article		
J	Kutlu, Mehmet; Yapici, Hakan; Yilmaz, Abdullah								Reliability and Validity of a New Test of Agility and Skill for Female Amateur Soccer Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				56	1			219	227		10.1515/hukin-2017-0039			FEB 2017	2017	The aim of this study was to evaluate the Agility and Skill Test, which had been recently developed to assess agility and skill in female athletes. Following a 10 min warm-up, two trials to test the reliability and validity of the test were conducted one week apart. Measurements were collected to compare soccer players' physical performance in a 20 m sprint, a T-Drill test, the Illinois Agility Run Test, change-of-direction and acceleration, as well as agility and skill. All tests were completed following the same order. Thirty-four amateur female soccer players were recruited (age = 20.8 +/- 1.9 years; body height = 166 +/- 6.9 cm; body mass = 55.5 +/- 5.8 kg). To determine the reliability and usefulness of these tests, paired sample t-tests, intra-class correlation coefficients, typical error, coefficient of variation, and differences between the typical error and smallest worthwhile change statistics were computed. Test results showed no significant differences between the two sessions (p > 0.01). There were higher intra-class correlations between the test and retest values (r = 0.94-0.99) for all tests. Typical error values were below the smallest worthwhile change, indicating `good' usefulness for these tests. A near perfect Pearson correlation between the Agility and Skill Test (r = 0.98) was found, and there were moderate-to-large levels of correlation between the Agility and Skill Test and other measures (r = 0.37 to r = 0.56). The results of this study suggest that the Agility and Skill Test is a reliable and valid test for female soccer players and has significant value for assessing the integrative agility and skill capability of soccer players.		[Kutlu, Mehmet] Univ Istanbul Gelisim ISTANBUL, Sch Phys Educ & Sport, Istanbul, Turkey; [Yapici, Hakan] Kirikkale Univ, Sch Phys Educ & Sport, Kirikkale, Turkey; [Yilmaz, Abdullah] Kirikkale Univ, Art & Sci Fac, Dept Stat, Kirikkale, Turkey; [Kutlu, Mehmet] Univ Istanbul Gelisim ISTANBUL, Sch Phys Educ & Sport, Istanbul, Turkey								26							Sport Sciences	WOS:000396924300023	31	Article; Article		
J	Castillo, Daniel; Camara, Jesus; Castagna, Carlo; Yanci, Javier								Effects of the off-Season Period on Field and Assistant Soccer Referees' Physical Performance								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				56	1			159	166		10.1515/hukin-2017-0033			FEB 2017	2017	The evolution of referees' physical fitness has been studied over one or several seasons, however, the variation of the physical performance between the end of the competitive season (T1) and the start of the following pre-season (T2) has not been ascertained. Therefore, the aim of this study was to analyze the effects of the transition period on physical performance variables (i.e. linear straight sprint, change of direction ability and endurance) in National Soccer Division referees. Forty-five Spanish referees volunteered to participate in this study. Participants were classified according to competitive status, field referees (FR, n = 23) and assistant referees (AR, n = 22). A loss of performance (p < 0.05) was observed in the 20 and 30 m linear straight sprint between T1 and T2 in both FR (1.64-1.56%, d = 0.29 to 0.32) and AR (2.01-3.41%, d = 0.33 to 0.60). In T2 the FR significantly improved the distance covered (p < 0.05, 13.11%, d = 0.39) in the Yo-Yo Intermittent Recovery test (YYIR1). Besides, significant differences were observed between FR and AR in the distance covered (p < 0.05, -23.55%, d = -0.97) in the YYIR1 test in T2. More research may be necessary to focus on the off-season period in order to implement specific training programs and consequently reduce the loss of sprint ability in field and assistant referees and the decrease in cardiovascular fitness in assistant referees.		[Castillo, Daniel; Camara, Jesus; Yanci, Javier] Univ Basque Country, UPV, EHU, Fac Educ & Sport, Lasarte 71, Vitoria 01007, Spain; [Castagna, Carlo] Italian Football Federat FIGC, Tech Dept, Football Training & Biomech Lab, Coverciano, Florence, Italy; [Castillo, Daniel] Univ Basque Country, UPV, EHU, Fac Educ & Sport, Lasarte 71, Vitoria 01007, Spain								15							Sport Sciences	WOS:000396924300017	27	Article; Article		
J	Cipryan, Lukas								IL-6, Antioxidant Capacity and Muscle Damage Markers Following High-Intensity Interval Training Protocols								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				56	1			139	148		10.1515/hukin-2017-0031			FEB 2017	2017	The aim of this study was to investigate changes of interleukin-6 (IL-6), total antioxidant capacity (TAC) and muscle damage markers (creatine kinase (CK), myoglobin and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH)) in response to three different high-intensity interval training (HIIT) protocols of identical external work. Twelve moderately-trained males participated in the three HIIT trials which consisted of a warm-up, followed by 12 min of 15 s, 30 s or 60 s HIIT sequences with the work/rest ratio 1. The biochemical markers of inflammation, oxidative stress and muscle damage were analysed POST, 3 h and 24 h after the exercise. All HIIT protocols caused an immediate increase in IL-6, TAC, CK, myoglobin and LDH. The most pronounced between-trials differences were found for the POST-exercise changes in IL-6 (Effect size +/- 90% confidence interval: 1.51 +/- 0.63, 0.84 +/- 0.34 and 1.80 +/- 0.60 for the 15s/15s, 30s/30s and 60s/60s protocol, respectively) and myoglobin (1.11 +/- 0.29, 0.45 +/- 0.48 and 1.09 +/- 0.22 for the 15s/15s, 30s/30s and 60s/60s protocol, respectively). There were no substantial between-trial differences in other biochemical variables. In conclusion, the 15s/15s and 60s/60s protocols might be preferred to the 30s/30s protocols in order to maximize the training stimulus.		[Cipryan, Lukas] Univ Ostrava, Human Mot Diagnost Ctr, Ostrava, Czech Republic; [Cipryan, Lukas] Univ Ostrava, Varenska 40a, Ostrava 70200, Czech Republic								35							Sport Sciences	WOS:000396924300015	41	Article; Article		
J	Harvey, Leonie; Bousson, Matthew; McLellan, Chris; Lovell, Dale								The Effect of Previous Wingate Performance Using one Body Region on Subsequent Wingate Performance Using a Different Body Region								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				56	1			119	126		10.1515/hukin-2017-0029			FEB 2017	2017	The 30 second Wingate Anaerobic Test (WAnT) is the gold standard measure of anaerobic performance. The present investigation aimed to determine if a previous WAnT using one body region significantly affected a subsequent WAnT using a different body region. Twelve male university students (n = 12, 23 +/- 2 years, 84 +/- 16.1 kg, 178.5 +/- 7.4 cm) volunteered to complete two repeated WAnT protocols (either lower body WAnT followed by an upper body WAnT or vice versa) on two separate testing occasions. The upper body WAnT was conducted on a modified electromagnetically braked cycle ergometer using a flywheel braking force corresponding to 5% bodyweight. The lower body WAnT was conducted on an electronically braked cycle ergometer using a flywheel braking force corresponding to 7.5% bodyweight. Participants had a 1 minute rest period for transition between WAnTs. Data are reported as mean +/- standard deviation. No significant differences were identified in power indices for the lower body between 30 s WAnTs. When the upper body WAnT was performed 2nd, absolute peak power (p < 0.01), mean power (p < 0.001) and relative mean power (p < 0.001) were significantly lower compared to when the upper body WAnT was performed 1st. The value of maximum revolutions per minute was significantly lower (p < 0.001) when the upper body WAnT was performed after the lower body WAnT, compared to when it was performed 1st (193.3 +/- 11.4 1st vs 179.8 +/- 14.4 2nd). Previous upper body sprint exercise does not significantly affect lower body sprint exercise; however, previous lower body sprint exercise severely compromises subsequent upper body sprint performance.		[Harvey, Leonie; Bousson, Matthew; Lovell, Dale] Univ Sunshine Coast, Fac Sci Hlth & Educ, Sch Hlth & Sport Sci, 90 Sippy Downs Dr, Sippy Downs, Qld, Australia; [McLellan, Chris] Bond Univ, Fac Hlth Sci & Med, Robina, Qld, Australia; [Harvey, Leonie] Univ Sunshine Coast, Fac Sci Hlth & Educ, Sch Hlth & Sport Sci, 90 Sippy Downs Dr, Sippy Downs, Qld, Australia								7							Sport Sciences	WOS:000396924300013	37	Article; Article		
J	Cabral-Santos, Carolina; Gerosa-Neto, Jose; Inoue, Daniela S.; Rossi, Fabricio E.; Cholewa, Jason M.; Campos, Eduardo Z.; Panissa, Valeria L. G.; Lira, Fabio S.								Physiological Acute Response to High-Intensity Intermittent and Moderate-Intensity Continuous 5 km Running Performance: Implications for Training Prescription								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				56	1			127	137		10.1515/hukin-2017-0030			FEB 2017	2017	The aim of this study was to investigate the physiological responses to moderate-intensity continuous and high-intensity intermittent exercise. Twelve physically active male subjects were recruited and completed a 5-km run on a treadmill in two experimental sessions in randomized order: continuously (70% sVO(2max)) and intermittently (1: 1 min at sVO2max). Oxygen uptake, excess post-exercise oxygen consumption, lactate concentration, heart rate and rating of perceived exertion data were recorded during and after each session. The lactate levels exhibited higher values immediately post-exercise than at rest (High-Intensity: 1.43 +/- 0.25 to 7.36 +/- 2.78; Moderate-Intensity: 1.64 +/- 1.01 to 4.05 +/- 1.52 mmol.L-1, p = 0.0004), but High-Intensity promoted higher values (p = 0.001) than Moderate-Intensity. There was a difference across time on oxygen uptake at all moments tested in both groups (High-Intensity: 100.19 +/- 8.15L; Moderate-Intensity: 88.35 +/- 11.46, p < 0.001). Both exercise conditions promoted increases in excess post-exercise oxygen consumption (High-Intensity: 6.61 +/- 1.85 L; Moderate-Intensity: 5.32 +/- 2.39 L, p < 0.005), but higher values were observed in the High-Intensity exercise protocol. High-Intensity was more effective at modifying the heart rate and rating of perceived exertion (High-Intensity: 183 +/- 12.54 and 19; Moderate-Intensity: 172 +/- 8.5 and 16, respectively, p < 0.05). In conclusion, over the same distance, Moderate-Intensity and High-Intensity exercise exhibited different lactate concentrations, heart rate and rating of perceived exertion. As expected, the metabolic contribution also differed, and High-Intensity induced higher energy expenditure, however, the total duration of the session may have to be taken into account. Moreover, when following moderate-intensity training, the percentage of sVO2max and the anaerobic threshold might influence exercise and training responses.		[Cabral-Santos, Carolina; Gerosa-Neto, Jose; Inoue, Daniela S.; Rossi, Fabricio E.; Lira, Fabio S.] Univ Estadual Paulista UNESP, Dept Phys Educ, Exercise & Immunometab Res Grp, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Cholewa, Jason M.] Coastal Carolina Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Conway, SC USA; [Campos, Eduardo Z.] Univ Fed Pernambuco, Dept Phys Educ, Ave Prof Moraes Rego 1235, BR-5670901 Recife, PE, Brazil; [Panissa, Valeria L. G.] Univ Sao Paulo, Sch Phys Educ & Sports, Dept Sports, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Campos, Eduardo Z.] Univ Fed Pernambuco, Dept Phys Educ, Ave Prof Moraes Rego 1235, BR-5670901 Recife, PE, Brazil								10							Sport Sciences	WOS:000396924300014	36	Article; Article		
J	Higino, Wonder Passoni; Sorroche, Alex de Souza; de Mattos Falqueiro, Pedro Guilherme; Suzuki Lima, Yuri Cristina; Higa, Camila Lie								Determination of Aerobic Performance in Youth Soccer Players: Effect of Direct And Indirect Methods								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				56	1			109	118		10.1515/hukin-2017-0028			FEB 2017	2017	This study was conducted to correlate and compare values for variables determined in indirect tests with the values determined directly in youth soccer players. The study subjects were 27 youth soccer players (age 16.77 +/- 0.75 years; body mass 63.29 +/- 7.37 kg; body height 174.14 +/- 8.46 cm) playing in the basic categories of a first division team at the regional level of Brazilian soccer. Each subject was evaluated with the following tests: a) a treadmill test to directly determine values of VO2max and V-amax (Treadmill); b) an indirect Shuttle Run Test (SRT); c) an indirect Carminatti's test (TCar). VO2max showed significantly different values in the Treadmill and the SRT (59.21 +/- 5.88 and 50.67 +/- 3.58 ml.kg(-1).min(-1), respectively). Similarly, values obtained for V-Peak in the treadmill test and for Vamax in TCar were different from values for SRT VPeak (15.01 +/- 1.10, 14.92 +/- 0.87 and 12.64 +/- 0.62 km.h(-1), respectively). A correlation analysis showed a moderate relationship between values for VPeak TCar and VO2max determined on a treadmill (r = 0.46) and V-amax determined on a treadmill (r = 0.54). The analysis also showed a high correlation between values of VO2max determined on the treadmill and VO2max evaluated in the SRT (r = 0.69), as well as VPeak determined in the SRT and VO2max tested on the treadmill (r = 0.71), as well as between VPeak determined in the SRT and VO2max evaluated on the treadmill (r = 0.77). We concluded that the SRT underestimated values of VO2max and V-amax. Additionally, V-peak TCar showed no difference compared to Vamax, although it did show a low correlation with it. In addition the SRT, even with high correlations, did not seem to be a great predictor of aerobic fitness in youth soccer players.		[Higino, Wonder Passoni] Inst Fed Educ Ciencia & Tecnol Sul Minas Gerais, Curso Educ Fis, Campus Muzambinho, Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil; [Sorroche, Alex de Souza; de Mattos Falqueiro, Pedro Guilherme] Univ Estadual Paulista, Curso Educ Fis, Campus Bauru, Paulista, Brazil; [Suzuki Lima, Yuri Cristina] Ctr Univ Catolico Salesiano Auxilium, Curso Educ Fis, Campus Lins, Lins, SP, Brazil; [Higa, Camila Lie] Univ Estadual Paulista, Dept Educ Fis, Campus Rio Claro, Paulista, Brazil; [Higino, Wonder Passoni] Inst Fed Educ Ciencia & Tecnol Sul Minas Geraias, Curso Educ Fis, Rua Dinah 75 Bairro Jardim Canaa, BR-37890000 Muzambinho, MG, Brazil								11							Sport Sciences	WOS:000396924300012	29	Article; Article		
J	Pozarowszczyk, Beata; Pawlaczyk, Weronika; Smoter, Malgorzata; Zarzycki, Andrzej; Mroczek, Dariusz; Kumorek, Martyna; Witkowski, Kazimierz; Adam, Kawczynski								Effects of Karate Fights on Achilles Tendon Stiffness Measured by Myotonometry								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				56	1			93	97		10.1515/hukin-2017-0026			FEB 2017	2017	The aim of the study was to investigate the influence of karate fights on Achilles tendon stiffness in karate competitors. Eleven male karate fighters participated in the present study. A handheld MyotonPRO device (MyotonPRO, Myoton Ltd, Estonia) was applied to measure Achilles tendon stiffness in karate fighters. The Achilles tendon was tested 5 cm above the tuber calcanei. Stiffness measurements were performed before and after eight sparring fights. Each fight lasted 2 min and was separated by a 2 min rest period. Achilles tendon stiffness for the dominant leg increased significantly from before fights (751.57 +/- 123.493 N/m) to immediately after fights (809.43 +/- 160.425 N/m) (p = 0.012). Presented results should be used by strength and conditioning coaches in training programs as a way to decrease the risk of injury.		[Pozarowszczyk, Beata; Pawlaczyk, Weronika; Kumorek, Martyna; Adam, Kawczynski] Univ Sch Phys Educ, Dept Paralymp Sports, Wroclaw, Poland; [Mroczek, Dariusz] Univ Sch Phys Educ, Dept Athletes Motor Skills, Wroclaw, Poland; [Witkowski, Kazimierz] Univ Sch Phys Educ, Dept Sport Didact, Wroclaw, Poland; [Smoter, Malgorzata] Univ Sch Phys Educ, Dept Biostruct, Wroclaw, Poland; [Zarzycki, Andrzej] Wroclaw Univ Environm & Life Sci, Wroclaw, Poland; [Adam, Kawczynski] Univ Sch Phys Educ, Al IJ Paderewskiego 35, Wroclaw, Poland								30							Sport Sciences	WOS:000396924300010	19	Article; Article		
J	Farana, Roman; Jandacka, Daniel; Uchytil, Jaroslav; Zahradnik, David; Irwin, Gareth								Technique Selection 'the Coaches Challenge' Influencing Injury Risk During the First Contact Hand of the Round off Skill in Female Gymnastics								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				56	1			51	59		10.1515/hukin-2017-0022			FEB 2017	2017	The importance of technique selection on elbow injury risk has been identified for the key round off skill in female gymnastics, with a focus on the second contact limb. The aim of this study was to shift the focus to the first contact limb and investigate the biomechanical injury risk during parallel and T-shape round-off (RO) techniques. Seven international-level female gymnasts performed 10 trials of the RO to back-handspring with parallel and T-shape hand positions. Synchronized kinematic (3D motion analysis system; 247 Hz) and kinetic (two force plates; 1235 Hz) data were collected for each trial. The t-test with effect size statistics determined differences between the two techniques. No significant differences were found for vertical, anterior posterior and resultant ground reaction force, elbow joint kinematics and kinetics. Specifically, the results highlighted that change in technique in RO skills did not influence first contact limb elbow joint mechanics and therefore, injury risk. The findings of the present study suggest the injury potential of this skill is focused on the second limb during the parallel technique of this fundamental gymnastic skill.		[Farana, Roman; Jandacka, Daniel; Uchytil, Jaroslav; Zahradnik, David; Irwin, Gareth] Univ Ostrava, Human Mot Diagnost Ctr, Dept Human Movement Studies, Moravska Ostrava 70130, Czech Republic; [Irwin, Gareth] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Cardiff Sch Sport, Sport Biomech Res Grp, Cardiff, S Glam, Wales; [Farana, Roman] Univ Ostrava, Human Mot Diagnost Ctr, Dept Human Movement Studies, Moravska Ostrava 70130, Czech Republic								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:000396924300006	29	Article; Article		
J	Loturco, Irineu; Nakamura, Fabio Y.; Lopes-Silva, Joao P.; Silva-Santos, Jonatas F.; Pereira, Lucas A.; Franchini, Emerson								Physical and physiological traits of a double world karate champion and responses to a simulated kumite bout: A case study								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				12	1			138	147		10.1177/1747954116684395			FEB 2017	2017	This study aimed at describing the changes in physical and physiological performance of a two-time World Karate Federation Champion athlete immediately prior to and after a bout simulation. The karateka was submitted to: (a) squat and countermovement jumps, jump squat and bench throw and maximal isometric force tests (half-squat and bench press, pre and post-match); (b) one simulated karate match. Improvements of 1.1% and 2.9% were observed in the squat jump and countermovement jumps, respectively, after the combat simulation. For jump squat, an increase in power production was observed after the simulation (0.6-7.4%). Conversely, for the bench throw a decrease in power was detected after the match (0.5-8.3%). The maximal isometric force increased for the half-squat (10.5%) and bench press exercises (1.6%). The investigated athlete presented quite different characteristics when compared to similarly highly trained peers, and these traits can probably explain his outlier performance.		[Loturco, Irineu; Nakamura, Fabio Y.; Pereira, Lucas A.] Nucleus High Performance Sport NAR, Av Padre Jose Maria 555, BR-04753060 Santo Amaro, SP, Brazil; [Nakamura, Fabio Y.] Univ Estadual Londrina, Londrina, Brazil; [Lopes-Silva, Joao P.; Silva-Santos, Jonatas F.; Franchini, Emerson] Univ Sao Paulo, Sch Phys Educ & Sport, Sport Dept, Martial Arts & Combat Sports Res Grp, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Loturco, Irineu] Nucleus High Performance Sport NAR, Av Padre Jose Maria 555, BR-04753060 Santo Amaro, SP, Brazil								16							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000394964400028	31	Article; Article		
J	Todoroff, Max								Dynamic Deep Squat: Lower-Body Kinematics and Considerations Regarding Squat Technique, Load Position, and Heel Height								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				39	1			71	80		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000278			FEB 2017	2017	The dynamic deep squat is an important and widely used exercise by strength and conditioning, rehabilitation, and health care professionals. This article explores lumbar spine and lower extremity kinematics during the dynamic deep squat and considers squat technique, load position, and heel height influences. Better understanding of dynamic deep squat kinematics may help to prevent lumbar spine injuries related to squatting.		[Todoroff, Max] Manual Med Phys Therapy, Raleigh, NC 27601 USA; [Todoroff, Max] Manual Med Phys Therapy, Raleigh, NC 27601 USA								7							Sport Sciences	WOS:000393949300008	55	Article; Article		
J	Harrison, Jeffrey S.								Interval Training for the Senior Population								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				39	1			81	84		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000270			FEB 2017	2017	Interval training has been one of the hottest topics of discussion in fitness. Despite being an integral part of athletic training programs, it is not typically thought of as safe for all populations. This article looks into the considerations of adding interval training into senior training programs.		[Harrison, Jeffrey S.] Jeffrey S Harrison Fitness, Pottstown, PA 19464 USA; [Harrison, Jeffrey S.] Jeffrey S Harrison Fitness, Pottstown, PA 19464 USA								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:000393949300009	18	Article; Article		
J	Zweifel, Michael								Importance of Horizontally Loaded Movements to Sports Performance								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				39	1			21	26		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000272			FEB 2017	2017	The use of vertically loaded exercises, such as the back squat, deadlift, and olympicstyle lifts, are commonly prescribed by strength and conditioning professionals to enhance the physical qualities of athletes. These methods have been supported as effective means, mainly for novice subjects, but their effectiveness and transfer has been questioned in more advanced athletes and in transfer to specific physical qualities. The effectiveness of vertically loaded exercise to enhance sprinting speed and change of direction (cod) speed is equivocal in advanced athletes, and the use of horizontally loaded movement may have better transfer for sprinting speed and cod speed.		[Zweifel, Michael] Bldg Better Athletes, Dubuque, IA 52003 USA; [Zweifel, Michael] Bldg Better Athletes, Dubuque, IA 52003 USA								22							Sport Sciences	WOS:000393949300003	50	Article; Article		
J	Jin, Chang-Hyun								Retrospection and state of sports marketing and sponsorship research in <i>IJSMS</i> from 1999 to 2015								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				18	4			363	379		10.1108/IJSMS-04-2016-0002			2017	2017	Purpose-Based on the increasing significance and proliferation of sports marketing and sponsorship, it is important to explore the state of sports marketing and sponsorship research, assess the development of sponsorship-related research, and grasp its future directions. Thus, the purpose of this paper is to help scholars understand future research directions to improve our knowledge of sports marketing and sponsorship. Design/methodology/approach-This study used content analysis that incorporated three multidimensional measures and applied social network analysis in order to identify the knowledge structure of sponsorship research. The authors conducted content analysis to assess the status of the nature of sports marketing and sponsorship in the International Journal of Sports Marketing & Sponsorship (IJSMS). The authors coded 282 articles published in the IJSMS from 1999 through 2015 using three multidimensional measures. Findings-Analyzing research trends in specific academic fields helps improve and provide understanding of research practices and future research directions to improve knowledge, in this case about sports marketing and sponsorship. This study is the most up-to-date research trend study regarding sports marketing and sponsorship (December 2015). Compared with previous trend studies that have focused on research purpose, research perspective, statistical method, and subject area, this study offers a more detailed analysis based on a wider set of concepts such as game types, individual authors, affiliated organizations, countries of origin, etc. Furthermore, social network analysis was used to identify the knowledge structure of sponsorship research in the IJSMS. The study provides valuable insight into the challenges marketers and scholars face as they implement a more market-centric business strategy. Research limitations/implications-The study aims to highlight the knowledge structure of sports marketing and sponsorship using social networking analysis. In order to highlight specific research area trends, the process of development should be explored together with the intellectual structure of sports marketing and sponsorship research using "Author Co-citation Analysis". Such an analysis would provide the advantage of incorporating the development process into sports marketing and sponsorship research. Practical implications-Marketers and researchers have long explored the effects of sponsorship, an alternative marketing strategy to commercial advertising that involves placement of brand images and logos on athletes' uniform and equipment as well as on structural elements of sports venues. Sponsoring the Olympic Games or the World Cup enables marketers to leverage the exposure made possible at a global sporting event, producing favorable responses to sponsoring companies. From a marketing communication perspective, this study makes a valuable contribution to the literature by reviewing the diversity of articles and the knowledge structure of those articles. The results should benefit marketing studies by offering crucial strategic implications for marketers seeking to adopt future sponsorship strategies. Originality/value-The results provide valuable insights that can improve the understanding of the knowledge structure of sports marketing and sponsorship and suggest planning and directions for research on similar topics. This study's findings provide insight into the challenges marketers and managers of corporate sports marketing firms face as they implement a more market-centric business strategy.		[Jin, Chang-Hyun] Kyonggi Univ, Dept Business Adm, Suwon, South Korea; [Jin, Chang-Hyun] Kyonggi Univ, Dept Business Adm, Suwon, South Korea								14							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000418194400003	36	Article; Article		
J	Xue, Hanhan; Mason, Dan								Stakeholder influence strategies in China: the case of Beijing's MasterCard Center								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				18	4			400	417		10.1108/IJSMS-05-2016-0025			2017	2017	Purpose-The purpose of this paper is to examine influence strategies in organization-stakeholder relationships, by examining the National Basketball Association (NBA) and Anschutz Entertainment Group's (AEG) involvement in the operations of MasterCard Center in Beijing, China. Design/methodology/approach-Using Frooman's model of stakeholder influence strategies, a case study of AEG and the NBA China was undertaken, relying on archival sources and interviews with key stakeholders. Findings-The study produced two major findings. First, Bloomage employed different influence strategies to press the NBA and AEG to further reduce their involvement in the MasterCard Center's operations. Second, Bloomage used cultural differences to justify the need to reduce its reliance on the NBA and AEG. Originality/value-The study adds to the literature on stakeholder theory and sport organizations by examining organizations establishing themselves in foreign markets, and the influence strategies employed by key local stakeholders.		Florida State Univ, Dept Sport Management, Tallahassee, FL 32306 USA; [Mason, Dan] Univ Alberta, Dept Phys Educ & Recreat, Edmonton, AB, Canada; [Mason, Dan] Univ Alberta, Dept Phys Educ & Recreat, Edmonton, AB, Canada								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000418194400005	70	Article; Article		
J	Welk, Gregory J.								The Intersections of Science and Practice: Examples From FitnessGram® Programming								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				88	4			391	400		10.1080/02701367.2017.1377485			2017	2017	The FitnessGram (R) program has provided teachers with practical tools to enhance physical education programming. A key to the success of the program has been the systematic application of science to practice. Strong research methods have been used to develop assessments and standards for use in physical education, but consideration has also been given to ensure that programming meets the needs of teachers, students, parents, and other stakeholders. This essay summarizes some of these complex and nuanced intersections between science and practice with the FitnessGram (R) program. The commentaries are organized into 5 brief themes: science informing practice; practice informing science; balancing science and practice; promoting evidence-based practice; and the integration of science and practice. The article draws on personal experiences with the FitnessGram (R) program and is prepared based on comments shared during the 37th Annual C. H. McCloy Research Lecture at the 2017 SHAPE America - Society of Health and Physical Educators Convention.		[Welk, Gregory J.] Iowa State Univ, Ames, IA 50011 USA; [Welk, Gregory J.] Iowa State Univ, Dept Kinesiol, 103E Forker Bldg,534 Wallace Ave, Ames, IA 50011 USA								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000416537900003	43	Article; Article		
J	Moore, E. Whitney G.; Fry, Mary D.								Physical Education Students' Ownership, Empowerment, and Satisfaction With PE and Physical Activity								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				88	4			468	478		10.1080/02701367.2017.1372557			2017	2017	Individuals experiencing a highly caring, task-involving, and low ego-involving exercise climate have reported greater ownership in exercise class and empowerment to exercise in general. Purpose: This study examined the relationship between ownership and empowerment in exercise, with 2 context-specific outcomes, satisfaction with physical education (PE) and physical activity, respectively. Given the mission of PE to foster individuals' lifelong physical activity habit, the perceptions of high school students were collected for this study. Ownership in exercise was hypothesized to be significantly, positively correlated with students reporting satisfaction in PE more than their satisfaction in physical activity, whereas empowerment in exercise was hypothesized to be more strongly, positively correlated with students' physical activity satisfaction. A second purpose of this study was to test the measurement quality of the updated Empowerment in Exercise Scale (EES; now 13 items). Method: High school students (N = 502, 43% female) in a Midwestern U.S. school district completed a survey. Results: Confirmatory factor analysis supported the internal measurement structure of the EES (lambda = .62-.91; McDonald's omega = .89) across student gender (strong invariance). Additionally, the structural equation modeling analysis revealed only 1 parameter moderated by the students' gender (latent mean of ownership). The hypotheses were supported, such that ownership in exercise was more strongly correlated with PE satisfaction (r = .87) and empowerment in exercise had a stronger correlation with physical activity satisfaction (r = .92). Conclusion: These results support the beneficial effect a satisfying experience in PE can have on students' satisfaction with physical activity outside of school.		[Moore, E. Whitney G.] Wayne State Univ, Detroit, MI 48202 USA; [Fry, Mary D.] Univ Kansas, Lawrence, KS 66045 USA; [Moore, E. Whitney G.] Wayne State Univ, Div Kinesiol Hlth & Sport Studies, 656 W Kirby St,FAB 2160, Detroit, MI 48202 USA								30							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000416537900010	35	Article; Article		
J	Raedeke, Thomas D.; Dlugonski, Deirdre								High Versus Low Theoretical Fidelity Pedometer Intervention Using Social-Cognitive Theory on Steps and Self-Efficacy								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				88	4			436	446		10.1080/02701367.2017.1368976			2017	2017	Purpose: This study was designed to compare a low versus high theoretical fidelity pedometer intervention applying social-cognitive theory on step counts and self-efficacy. Method: Fifty-six public university employees participated in a 10-week randomized controlled trial with 2 conditions that varied in theoretical fidelity. Participants in the high theoretical fidelity condition wore a pedometer and participated in a weekly group walk followed by a meeting to discuss cognitive-behavioral strategies targeting self-efficacy. Participants in the low theoretical fidelity condition met for a group walk and also used a pedometer as a motivational tool and to monitor steps. Step counts were assessed throughout the 10-week intervention and after a no-treatment follow-up (20 weeks and 30 weeks). Self-efficacy was measured preintervention and postintervention. Results: Participants in the high theoretical fidelity condition increased daily steps by 2,283 from preintervention to postintervention, whereas participants in the low fidelity condition demonstrated minimal change during the same time period (p = .002). Individuals attending at least 80% of the sessions in the high theoretical fidelity condition showed an increase of 3,217 daily steps (d = 1.03), whereas low attenders increased by 925 (d = 0.40). Attendance had minimal impact in the low theoretical fidelity condition. Follow-up data revealed that step counts were at least somewhat maintained. For self-efficacy, participants in the high, compared with those in the low, theoretical fidelity condition showed greater improvements. Conclusion: Findings highlight the importance of basing activity promotion efforts on theory. The high theoretical fidelity intervention that included cognitive-behavioral strategies targeting self-efficacy was more effective than the low theoretical fidelity intervention, especially for those with high attendance.		[Raedeke, Thomas D.; Dlugonski, Deirdre] East Carolina Univ, Greenville, NC 27858 USA; [Raedeke, Thomas D.] East Carolina Univ, Dept Kinesiol, 175 Minges Coliseum, Greenville, NC 27858 USA								9							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000416537900007	35	Article; Article		
J	Gouttebarge, Vincent; Aoki, Haruhito; Lambert, Michael; Stewart, William; Kerkhoffs, Gino								A history of concussions is associated with symptoms of common mental disorders in former male professional athletes across a range of sports								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				45	4			443	449		10.1080/00913847.2017.1376572			2017	2017	Objective: Recent reports suggest that exposure to repetitive concussions in sports is associated with an increased risk of symptoms of distress, anxiety and depression, sleep disturbance or substance abuse/dependence (typically referred as symptoms of common mental disorders[CMD]) and of later development of neurodegenerative disease, in particular chronic traumatic encephalopathy (CTE). The primary aim of this study was to explore the relationship between sports career-related concussions and the subsequent occurrence of symptoms of CMD among former male professional athletes retired from football (soccer), ice hockey and rugby (union).Methods: Cross-sectional analyses were performed on baseline electronic questionnaires from three prospective cohort studies among former male professional athletes retired from football (soccer), ice hockey and rugby (union). The number of confirmed concussions was examined through a single question, while symptoms of distress, anxiety and depression, sleep disturbance and adverse alcohol use were assessed using validated questionnaires.Results: From 1,957 former professional athletes contacted, a total of 576 (29%) completed the questionnaire. Of these, 23% had not incurred a concussion during their career, 34% had two or three, 18% four or five, and 11% six or more concussions. The number of sports career-related concussions was a predictor for all outcome measures (=0.072-0.109; P0.040). Specifically, former professional athletes who reported a history of four or five concussions were approximately 1.5 times more likely to report symptoms of CMD, rising to a two- to five-fold increase in those reporting a history of six or more sports career-related concussions.Conclusions: These data demonstrate an association between exposure to sports concussion and subsequent risk of symptoms of CMD in former professional athletes across a range of contact sports. Further work to explore the association between sports concussion and symptoms of CMD is required; in the meanwhile, strategies for effective risk reduction and improved management appear indicated.		[Gouttebarge, Vincent; Kerkhoffs, Gino] Acad Med Ctr, Acad Ctr Evidence Based Sports Med ACES, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Gouttebarge, Vincent] World Players Union FIFPro, Hoofddorp, Netherlands; [Gouttebarge, Vincent; Lambert, Michael] Univ Cape Town, Div Exercise Sci & Sports Med ESSM, Cape Town, South Africa; [Aoki, Haruhito] St Marianna Univ, Sch Med, Kawazaki, Japan; [Stewart, William] Queen Elizabeth Hosp, Dept Neuropathol, Glasgow, Lanark, Scotland; [Kerkhoffs, Gino] Vrije Univ Amsterdam, Med Ctr, Acad Med Ctr, ACHSS, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Gouttebarge, Vincent] Acad Med Ctr, Acad Ctr Evidence Based Sports Med ACES, Amsterdam, Netherlands								57							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000415966600013	34	Article; Article		
J	Myrdal, Caitlyn N.; Huang, Shuang; Beach, Holly N.; Waterbrook, Anna L.								Comparison of knowledge, perception and attitudes of concussion in previously concussed versus non-concussed youth soccer players								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				45	3			286	292		10.1080/00913847.2017.1345569			2017	2017	Objectives: To examine if history of concussion is correlated with a difference in knowledge, attitude, and perception of concussive injuries in youth soccer players. Methods: A convenience sample of youth soccer athletes aged 14 to 18 years completed a survey assessing prior history of concussive injury, knowledge of concussive injury, self-reporting attitudes, and perception of the injury. The survey consists of 16 knowledge questions (eleven on a scale of 1-2, and five on a scale of 1-4) and 12 attitude questions (seven on a scale of 1-4, and five on a scale of 1-5). The primary outcomes are the total scores calculated by summing the standardized raw scores for all knowledge questions and attitude questions, respectively. Linear regression was used to estimate the mean difference in the primary outcomes between previously concussed and non-concussed athletes (calculated as previously concussed - non-concussed). Results: Surveys were obtained from 90 athletes, with 32 (36%) previously sustaining at least one concussion. Thirty-one out of these 32 concussions were diagnosed by a medical provider. On average, the mean total raw scores of all knowledge questions are 34.6 (82.2% of 42 possible points) and 33.7 (80.2% of 42 total points) for previously concussed and non-concussed athletes, respectively, and the mean total raw scores of all attitude questions are 38.7 (72.9% of 53 possible points) and 39.6 (74.7% of 53 possible points), respectively. Mean differences estimated from univariate linear regression in the standardized total scores of knowledge questions and attitude questions are 1.56(95% confidence interval: -1.52-4.65) and -1.23 (%95 confidence interval: -4.64-2.19), respectively. Adjusting for age and years of playing soccer gave similar results. Conclusion: Although we did not find significant differences between previously concussed and non-concussed athletes in either the knowledge or the attitude questions as measured by their total scores, this study showed a high level of awareness of concussion in youth soccer players, while still highlighting a need for education. Limited distinctions were made among subgroups of players, suggesting directions of future research in investigating the role that outside factors may have on knowledge and perception of concussion.		[Myrdal, Caitlyn N.] Univ Arizona, Coll Med, Tucson, AZ USA; [Huang, Shuang] Univ Arizona, Dept Epidemiol, Mel & Enid Zuckerman Coll Publ Hlth, Tucson, AZ USA; [Huang, Shuang] Univ Arizona, Dept Biostat, Mel & Enid Zuckerman Coll Publ Hlth, Tucson, AZ USA; [Beach, Holly N.] Univ Arizona, Dept Family & Community Med, Tucson, AZ USA; [Waterbrook, Anna L.] Univ Arizona, Dept Emergency Med, Tucson, AZ 85721 USA; [Waterbrook, Anna L.] Univ Arizona, Dept Emergency Med, Tucson, AZ 85721 USA								9							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000416502100011	19	Article; Article		
J	Xu, Zhongwei; Zhang, Hua; Luo, Jiao; Zhou, Aiguo; Zhang, Jian								Preemptive analgesia by using celecoxib combined with tramadol/APAP alleviates post-operative pain of patients undergoing total knee arthroplasty								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				45	3			316	322		10.1080/00913847.2017.1325312			2017	2017	Objective: This study was aimed to evaluate the efficacy of preemptive analgesia (PA) by using celecoxib combined with low-dose tramadol/acetaminophen (tramadol/APAP) in treating post-operative pain of patients undergoing unilateral total knee arthroplasty (TKA). Methods: A total of 132 patients scheduled for TKA were included in this study. Three-day pre-operative medication was administrated in PA group with subsequent effective intra- and post-operative multimodal analgesia, while control patients received multimodal analgesia without PA. Visual analog scale (VAS) was utilized to assess the pain intensity at rest and during movement. VAS scores of participants were recorded 3 days before surgery, 1 day, 3 days, 1 week, 3 weeks, 6 weeks, 3 months, 6 months, and 12 months postoperatively. Moreover, the length of hospital stay, expense of hospitalization, C-reactive protein (CRP) values during hospitalization, and complications during medication were also recorded. Results: PA showed superiority over control at 3 weeks (P = 0.013) and 6 weeks (P = 0.046) in resting pain, and 1 week (P = 0.015), 3 weeks (P = 0.003), 6 weeks (P = 0.003) and 3 months (P = 0.012) postoperatively in movement pain. There was no statistically significant difference in the length of hospital stay, total expense, CRP values, as well as complications. Conclusions: Based on satisfactory intra- and post-operative analgesia, PA by 3-day administration of celecoxib and low-dose tramadol/APAP might be an effective and safe therapy regarding patients undergoing TKA in terms of alleviating post-operative pain.		[Xu, Zhongwei; Zhang, Hua; Zhou, Aiguo; Zhang, Jian] Chongqing Med Univ, Affiliated Hosp 1, Dept Orthopaed, 1 Youyi Rd, Chongqing 400016, Peoples R China; [Luo, Jiao] Sichuan Univ, West China Sch Publ Hlth, Chengdu, Sichuan, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Jian] Chongqing Med Univ, Affiliated Hosp 1, Dept Orthopaed, 1 Youyi Rd, Chongqing 400016, Peoples R China								14							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000416502100015	47	Article; Article		
J	Gouttebarge, Vincent; Kerkhoffs, Gino M. M. J.								A prospective cohort study on symptoms of common mental disorders among current and retired professional ice hockey players								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				45	3			252	258		10.1080/00913847.2017.1338497			2017	2017	Objectives: Scientific knowledge about symptoms of common mental disorders in professional ice hockey is lacking. Consequently, the primary aims of the study were to (i) determine the prevalence, comorbidity and 6-month incidence of symptoms of common mental disorders (distress, anxiety/ depression, sleep disturbance, adverse alcohol use, eating disorders) among current and retired professional ice hockey players and (ii) evaluate their potential relation with potential stressors (severe musculoskeletal injuries, surgeries, recent life events, career dissatisfaction). Methods: A prospective cohort study with a 6-month follow-up period was conducted. Using validated questionnaires to assess symptoms of common mental disorders (thus not clinically diagnosed) as well as several stressors, an electronic questionnaire was set up and distributed by the national ice hockey players' unions from Denmark, Finland, Norway and Switzerland. Results: Prevalence ranged from 8% for adverse alcohol use to 24% for anxiety/depression among current professional ice hockey players, and from 12% for distress to 29% for adverse alcohol among retired professional ice hockey players. Six-month incidence reached up to 22% for eating disorders among current players and 25% for sleep disturbance among retired players. Especially a higher number of surgeries, a higher number of recent life events and higher level of career dissatisfaction was related to symptoms of common mental disorders. Conclusions: Our findings indicate that adequate interventions should be developed to improve not only awareness and psychological resilience of both current and retired ice hockey players but also their performance and quality-of-life. An interdisciplinary approach should be applied in the medical care of ice hockey players by including psychologists/psychiatrists who can provide psychotherapeutic or clinical interventions.		[Gouttebarge, Vincent; Kerkhoffs, Gino M. M. J.] Acad Med Ctr, Acad Ctr Evidence Based Sports Med ACES, Meibergdreef 9, NL-1105 AZ Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Gouttebarge, Vincent; Kerkhoffs, Gino M. M. J.] Vrije Univ Amsterdam, Med Ctr, Acad Med Ctr, ACHSS, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Gouttebarge, Vincent; Kerkhoffs, Gino M. M. J.] Acad Med Ctr, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Gouttebarge, Vincent] Univ Cape Town, Div Exercise Sci & Sports Med, Cape Town, South Africa; [Gouttebarge, Vincent] Acad Med Ctr, Acad Ctr Evidence Based Sports Med ACES, Meibergdreef 9, NL-1105 AZ Amsterdam, Netherlands								32							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000416502100006	23	Article; Article		
J	Wyatt, Ronald W. B.; Inacio, Maria C. S.; Bellevue, Kate D.; Schepps, Alan L.; Maletis, Gregory B.								Isolated ACL versus multiple knee ligament injury: associations with patient characteristics, cartilage status, and meniscal tears identified during ACL reconstruction								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				45	3			323	328		10.1080/00913847.2017.1321460			2017	2017	Objectives: The objectives of this study were to determine (1) if patients undergoing reconstruction of an isolated anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) tear had different characteristics (age, gender, body mass index [BMI]) than patients undergoing ACL reconstruction (ACLR) with multiple knee ligament (MKL) tears and (2) whether there was a difference in prevalence of articular cartilage injury and meniscus tears between these two groups. Methods: Patients undergoing primary ACLR between February 2005 and June 2013 were identified through an ACLR registry. Patients were grouped by whether they had an isolated ACL tear or an ACL tear associated with another knee ligament tear. The study cohort was analyzed to identify differences in patient characteristics and cartilage/meniscus injury patterns between the groups. Results: Of the 21,377 ACLR cases enrolled in the registry during the study period, 2.5% (n = 549) had MKL tears. The MKL group had more males (73.2% vs. 62.8%, p < 0.001) than the isolated ACL group. The MKL group also had a higher percentage of patients with a BMI greater than 30 (31.1% vs. 22.7%, p = 0.0002). When adjusting for these variables, any articular cartilage injury was equal in the two groups (OR = 1.01, CI 0.82-1.25, p = 0.922), while medial femoral condyle injury was less common in the MKL group (OR = 0.73, CI = 0.56-0.07, p = 0.28). The likelihood of any meniscus tear was lower in the MKL group (OR = 0.56, CI = 0.47-0.67, p < 0.001) as was the likelihood of medial meniscus tears (OR = 0.53, CI = 0.44-0.65, p < 0.001). Conclusions: When comparing patients with MKL tears versus isolated ACL tears at ACLR, there was a higher percentage of males and patients with BMI over 30 in the MKL group. Medial femoral condyle articular cartilage injury, any meniscus tear, and medial meniscus tears were less common in patients with MKL injury compared to patients with isolated ACL tears.		[Wyatt, Ronald W. B.] Permanente Med Grp Inc, Dept Orthoped Surg, Walnut Creek, CA 94596 USA; [Inacio, Maria C. S.] Univ South Australia, Med & Devices Surveillance Ctr Res Excellence Ade, Adelaide, SA, Australia; [Bellevue, Kate D.] Univ Washington, Dept Orthoped & Sports Med, Seattle, WA 98195 USA; [Schepps, Alan L.] Kaiser Permanente, Dept Surg Outcomes & Anal, San Diego, CA USA; [Maletis, Gregory B.] Southern Calif Permanente Med Grp, Dept Orthoped Surg, Baldwin Pk, CA USA; [Wyatt, Ronald W. B.] Permanente Med Grp Inc, Dept Orthoped Surg, Walnut Creek, CA 94596 USA								16							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000416502100016	50	Article; Article		
J	Staynor, Jonathan M. D.; Nicholas, Joanna C.; Weir, Gillian; Alderson, Jacqueline A.; Donnelly, Cyril J.								Targeting associated mechanisms of anterior cruciate ligament injury in female community-level athletes								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				16	4			501	513		10.1080/14763141.2016.1246597			2017	2017	This study aims to determine if biomechanically informed injury prevention training can reduce associated factors of anterior cruciate ligament injury risk among a general female athletic population. Female community-level team sport athletes, split into intervention (n=8) and comparison groups (n=10), completed a sidestepping movement assessment prior to and following a 9-week training period, in which kinetic, kinematic and neuromuscular data were collected. The intervention group completed a biomechanically informed training protocol, consisting of plyometric, resistance and balance exercises, adjunct to normal training, for 15-20min twice a week. Following the 9-week intervention, total activation of the muscles crossing the knee (n=7) decreased for both the training ( -15.02%, d=0.45) and comparison ( -9.68%, d=0.47) groups. This decrease was accompanied by elevated peak knee valgus ( +27.78%, d=-0.36) and internal rotation moments ( +37.50%, d=-0.56) in the comparison group, suggesting that female community athletes are at an increased risk of injury after a season of play. Peak knee valgus and internal rotation knee moments among athletes who participated in training intervention did not change over the intervention period. Results suggest participation in a biomechanically informed training intervention may mitigate the apparent deleterious effects of community-level sport participation.		[Staynor, Jonathan M. D.; Nicholas, Joanna C.; Weir, Gillian; Alderson, Jacqueline A.; Donnelly, Cyril J.] Univ Western Australia, Fac Sci, Sch Sport Sci Exercise & Hlth, Crawley, Australia; [Donnelly, Cyril J.] Univ Western Australia, Fac Sci, Sch Sport Sci Exercise & Hlth, Crawley, Australia								18							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000409212900006	43	Article; Article		
J	Walker, Cherie; Sinclair, Peter; Graham, Kenneth; Cobley, Stephen								The validation and application of Inertial Measurement Units to springboard diving								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				16	4			485	500		10.1080/14763141.2016.1246596			2017	2017	Inertial Measurement Units (IMUs) may offer an ecologically valid, reliable, and practical method for biomechanical performance analysis. With such potential in mind, Part 1 of this study examined the accuracy of IMUs gyroscopes with an optical system (Cortex 3.3). A calibration formula standardised the IMUs angular velocity output with the optical system. The percentage differences between the two measures=0.5% (p<0.05), suggest IMU's efficacy for application. In Part 2, the aim was to examine and understand how dive flight angular velocity time series plots change and increase according to dive degree of difficulty. With IMUs attached to three competitive divers performing forward somersault dives, dive flight kinematics were assessed. Biomechanically, a 41/2 tuck somersault dive differed to lower degree of difficulty dives in terms of: (1) a rotational delay immediately after takeoff (to gain greater vertical translation); (2) increased total time of flight; (3) greater muscle effort to resist increased centrifugal forces produced by the increased angular velocity (1,090 degrees/s); and (4) greater eccentric control during deceleration allow a safe and vertical entry into the water. IMUs can be effectively utilised and integrated into contexts such as springboard diving for performance analysis and optimisation purposes.		[Walker, Cherie; Sinclair, Peter; Cobley, Stephen] Univ Sydney, Fac Hlth Sci, Lidcombe, Australia; [Walker, Cherie; Graham, Kenneth] New South Wales Inst Sport, Appl Res Program, Sydney Olympic Pk, Australia; [Walker, Cherie] Univ Sydney, Fac Hlth Sci, Lidcombe, Australia; [Walker, Cherie] New South Wales Inst Sport, Appl Res Program, Sydney Olympic Pk, Australia								13							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000409212900005	32	Article; Article		
J	Liu, Dongfeng								Development of a scale measuring the psychic income associated with hosting the Olympic Games								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				18	3			298	313		10.1108/IJSMS-08-2017-098			2017	2017	Purpose - The purpose of this paper is to develop a scale to measure the legacy of psychic income associated with the Olympic Games. Design/methodology/approach - Using the 2008 Beijing Games as an example, data were collected from Beijing residents through structured questionnaires. A scale of measuring psychic income (SPI) was developed through conducting a confirmatory factor analysis (CFA) based on a sample of 375. Findings - In the CFA estimation, a seven-factor SPI was identified with 24 pertinent items retained. This seven-factor model displays good fit to the data, construct validity, and reliability. Originality/value - Despite the importance of psychic income widely recognized in the existing literature, there has been a lack of valid scales to measure major sports events psychic income in general and Olympic psychic income in particular. This paper develops a multidimensional scale from the host community perspective, which can provide academics and local organizers with a reliable and valid tool to assess Olympic psychic income.		[Liu, Dongfeng] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Econ & Management, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Liu, Dongfeng] Shanghai Univ Sport, INSEEC Business Sch, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Liu, Dongfeng] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Econ & Management, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Liu, Dongfeng] Shanghai Univ Sport, INSEEC Business Sch, Shanghai, Peoples R China								10							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000408474200005	61	Article; Article		
J	Kim, Doyeop; Walker, Matthew; Heo, Jun; Koo, Gi-Yong								Sport league website: an effective marketing communication tool for corporate sponsors								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				18	3			314	327		10.1108/IJSMS-08-2017-097			2017	2017	Purpose - Although high-profile sport league website sponsorships have increased in popularity over the last decade, academic research on the topic has not kept pace, resulting in little knowledge of ways to improve the effectiveness of this sponsorship type. This paper aims to discuss this issue. Design/methodology/approach - The current study examined the influence of three website-related variables (i.e. website interactivity, website fit, and website credibility), while controlling for a sponsor-related variable (i.e. sponsor familiarity), on consumer attitude toward the sponsor ad and willingness to click on its banner ad. Hierarchical multiple regression analyses indicated three main effects. Practical implications are discussed with limitations and suggestions for future research. Findings - This study found three important things. First, website interactivity played an important role in attitude toward the ad and willingness to click on the banner ad. Second, website fit influenced attitude toward the ad and willingness to click on the banner ad. Third, website credibility influenced attitude toward the ad. Originality/value - The findings suggest that in order to maximize online sports sponsorship outcomes, companies must keep in mind that the interactivity between the web users and the site should be regarded as the most pragmatic result which could come from the online sports sponsorship territory.		[Kim, Doyeop] Troy Univ, Troy, AL 36082 USA; [Walker, Matthew] Texas A&M Univ, Dept Hlth & Kinesiol, College Stn, TX USA; [Heo, Jun] Louisiana State Univ, Manship Sch Mass Commun, Baton Rouge, LA 70803 USA; [Koo, Gi-Yong] Troy Univ, Sch Hospitality Sport & Tourism Management, Troy, AL USA; [Kim, Doyeop] Troy Univ, Troy, AL 36082 USA								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000408474200006	43	Article; Article		
J	Lee, Woo-Young; Hur, Youngjin; Kim, Dae Yeon; Brigham, Christopher								The effect of endorsement and congruence on banner ads on sports websites								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				18	3			263	280		10.1108/IJSMS-08-2017-096			2017	2017	Purpose - The purpose of this paper is to examine the effects of congruity and endorsement on consumer attitudes toward sports website advertisements (Aad), the advertising brand (Abr), and consumers' future intentions (FI). Design/methodology/approach - The current study followed a 2 x 3 between-subjects experimental design. Sports celebrity (or the presence or absence of a sports celebrity in a banner ad) and the level of congruity between the website and banner ad (high congruity - soccer, medium congruity - snowboard, and low congruity - computer) were the primary independent variables. Data were collected in two stages. An initial pilot study (n = 40) established the reliability and validity of the scaled measures guiding this test. The second phase of data collection, the main study, was conducted over a five-day period. A random assignment of treatment conditions (i.e. exposure to one of six banner ad manipulations) was followed by a series of short surveys designed to measure the dependent variables of subjects' cognitive ad responses (i.e. Aad, Abr, and FI). Findings - The results indicated that participants who viewed the ad with the endorsement showed a more positive Aad than those who viewed the ad without it. The participants with a high congruity condition reported a more positive Abr and higher FI than those with low or medium congruity. Originality/value - This study extends the application of congruity theory to banner advertisements, thereby aiding our understanding of consumers' perceptions of advertising.		[Lee, Woo-Young; Kim, Dae Yeon] Univ Cent Missouri, Dept Nutr & Kinesiol, Warrensburg, MO USA; [Hur, Youngjin] Konkuk Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Seoul, South Korea; [Brigham, Christopher] City Gear LLC, Memphis, TN USA; [Hur, Youngjin] Konkuk Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Seoul, South Korea								12							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000408474200003	78	Article; Article		
J	Koopmann, Till; Steggemann-Weinrich, Yvonne; Baumeister, Jochen; Krause, Daniel								Mental Rotation of Tactical Instruction Displays Affects Information Processing Demand and Execution Accuracy in Basketball								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				88	3			365	370		10.1080/02701367.2017.1324602			2017	2017	Purpose: In sports games, coaches often use tactic boards to present tactical instructions during time-outs (e.g., 20 s to 60 s in basketball). Instructions should be presented in a way that enables fast and errorless information processing for the players. The aim of this study was to test the effect of different orientations of visual tactical displays on observation time and execution performance. High affordances in visual-spatial transformation (e.g., mental rotation processes) might impede information processing and might decrease execution performance with regard to the instructed playing patterns. Method: In a within-subjects design with 1 factor, 10 novice students were instructed with visual tactical instructions of basketball playing patterns with different orientations either showing the playing pattern with low spatial disparity to the players' on-court perspective (basket on top) or upside down (basket on bottom). Results: The self-chosen time for watching the pattern before execution was significantly shorter and spatial accuracy in pattern execution was significantly higher when the instructional perspective and the real perspective on the basketball court had a congruent orientation. Conclusion: The effects might be explained by interfering mental rotation processes that are necessary to transform the instructional perspective into the players' actual perspective while standing on the court or imagining themselves standing on the court. According to these results, coaches should align their tactic boards to their players' on-court viewing perspective.		[Koopmann, Till; Steggemann-Weinrich, Yvonne; Baumeister, Jochen; Krause, Daniel] Paderborn Univ, Paderborn, Germany; [Krause, Daniel] Paderborn Univ, Human Movement & Exercise Sci, Dept Exercise & Hlth, Fac Sci, Warburgerstr 100, D-33098 Paderborn, Germany								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000407593700014	17	Article; Article		
J	Pickett, Andrew C.; Cunningham, George B.								Creating Inclusive Physical Activity Spaces: The Case of Body-Positive Yoga								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				88	3			329	338		10.1080/02701367.2017.1335851			2017	2017	Purpose: Within the modern cultural climate, those in larger bodies face high levels of weight stigma, particularly in sport and physical activity spaces, which serves as a strong barrier to their participation. However, given the strong link between physical activity and general health and well-being for participants, it is important to explore strategies that encourage participation of these individuals. Thus, the current research examined strategies that physical activity instructors use to develop inclusive exercise spaces for all body sizes. Method: This study employed a series of semistructured qualitative interviews (n = 9) with instructors of body-inclusive yoga classes to explore the ways in which they encourage participation for those in larger bodies. Results: Emergent themes from the current study suggested support for 6 factors for creating bodyinclusive physical activity spaces: authentic leadership, a culture of inclusion, a focus on health, inclusive language, leader social activism, and a sense of community. Conclusion: This study revealed that leaders must intentionally cultivate inclusion in their spaces to encourage those in nonconforming bodies to participate. These findings have important health and management implications for the sport and physical activity context and provide a basic outline of practical strategies that practitioners can use to foster inclusion in their spaces.		[Pickett, Andrew C.] Univ South Dakota, Vermillion, SD 57069 USA; [Cunningham, George B.] Texas A&M Univ, College Stn, TX 77843 USA; [Pickett, Andrew C.] Univ South Dakota, Dept Kinesiol & Sport Management, Sanford Coyote Sports Ctr A311H, 414 E Clark St, Vermillion, SD 57069 USA								27							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000407593700009	42	Article; Article		
J	Katch, Rachel K.; Scarneo, Samantha E.; Adams, William M.; Armstrong, Lawrence E.; Belval, Luke N.; Stamm, Julie M.; Casa, Douglas J.								Top 10 Research Questions Related to Preventing Sudden Death in Sport and Physical Activity								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				88	3			251	268		10.1080/02701367.2017.1342201			2017	2017	Participation in organized sport and recreational activities presents an innate risk for serious morbidity and mortality. Although death during sport or physical activity has many causes, advancements in sports medicine and evidence-based standards of care have allowed clinicians to prevent, recognize, and treat potentially fatal injuries more effectively. With the continual progress of research and technology, current standards of care are evolving to enhance patient outcomes. In this article, we provided 10 key questions related to the leading causes and treatment of sudden death in sport and physical activity, where future research will support safer participation for athletes and recreational enthusiasts. The current evidence indicates that most deaths can be avoided when proper strategies are in place to prevent occurrence or provide optimal care.		[Katch, Rachel K.; Scarneo, Samantha E.; Armstrong, Lawrence E.; Belval, Luke N.; Casa, Douglas J.] Univ Connecticut, Storrs, CT 06269 USA; [Adams, William M.] Univ North Carolina Greensboro, Greensboro, NC USA; [Stamm, Julie M.] Univ Wisconsin Madison, Madison, WI USA; [Katch, Rachel K.] Univ Connecticut, Dept Kinesiol, Korey Stringer Inst, 2095 Hillside Rd,U-1110, Storrs, CT 06269 USA								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000407593700003	147	Article; Article		
J	Ennis, Catherine D.								Educating Students for a Lifetime of Physical Activity: Enhancing Mindfulness, Motivation, and Meaning								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				88	3			241	250		10.1080/02701367.2017.1342495			2017	2017	For many years, pedagogical scholars and physical education (PE) teachers have worked to enhance effective teaching and learning environments. Yet for some children, youth, and young adults, many of the benefits associated with a physically active lifestyle remain elusive. Enhancing programming and performance to meet physical activity goals may require moving programs beyond "effective." It will require teachers and program leaders to focus programmatic attention on strategies to actually increase students' out-of-class physical activity behavior. Transformative PE provides physical activity content within a nurturing and motivating environment that can change students' lives. It focuses on PE students' role in cognitive decision making, self-motivation, and their search for personal meaning that can add connection and relevance to physical activities. In this SHAPE America -Society of Health and Physical Educators Research Quarterly for Exercise and Sport Lecture, I have synthesized the research on these topics to emphasize useful findings applicable to teachers' everyday planning and teaching. Using sport, physical activity, dance, and adventure activities as the means to an end for personal and social growth, we can meet our commitment to effective standards-based education while preparing students for a lifetime of physical activity.		[Ennis, Catherine D.] Univ North Carolina Greensboro, Greensboro, NC 27412 USA; [Ennis, Catherine D.] Univ North Carolina Greensboro, Dept Kinesiol, Sch Hlth & Human Sci, 254 Coleman Bldg,1408 Walker Ave, Greensboro, NC 27412 USA								117							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000407593700002	64	Article; Article		
J	Laukkanen, Arto; Pesola, Arto J.; Finni, Taija; Saakslahti, Arja								Parental Support and Objectively Measured Physical Activity in Children: A Yearlong Cluster-Randomized Controlled Efficacy Trial								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				88	3			293	306		10.1080/02701367.2017.1329924			2017	2017	Purpose: We studied whether physical activity (PA) counseling for parents influenced the level of parental support of children's PA and leisure-time PA in children of different levels of initial parental support. We hypothesized that the initial level of parental support would moderate the intervention efficacy. Method: Children (n = 44, M-age = 6.09 +/- 1.17 years) and their parents (n = 61) randomly assigned to an intervention group received counseling for 6 months. Children in the control group (n = 47, M-age = 6.12 +/- 1.11 years) and their parents (n = 63) did not receive any counseling. Parental support was assessed using the Family Physical Activity Environment Questionnaire, and children's leisure-time PA was recorded using triaxial accelerometers at baseline, at 6 months, and at 12 months. The efficacy of the intervention was tested by linear mixedeffects modeling adjusted for confounding variables (Model 1) and additionally for children's participation in organized PA or sports (Model 2). Results: Parents within the lowest initial parental support intervention tertile significantly increased their support, and their children's mean level of leisure-time PA significantly improved compared with the corresponding controls during the counseling period. On the other hand, intervention was found to have an unfavorable influence especially in the PA of children of initially highly supportive parents. Conclusion: Targeting PA counseling for parents with low support of their children's PA could contribute to better family-based PA counseling efficacy.		[Laukkanen, Arto] Univ Jyvaskyla, Jyvaskyla, Finland; [Laukkanen, Arto] Univ Jyvaskyla, Dept Sport Sci, Fac Sport & Hlth Sci, POB 35, FI-40014 Jyvaskyla, Finland								17							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000407593700006	38	Article; Article		
J	Kawamura, Katsue; Shinya, Masahiro; Kobayashi, Hirofumi; Obata, Hiroki; Kuwata, Masumi; Nakazawa, Kimitaka								Baseball pitching accuracy: an examination of various parameters when evaluating pitch locations								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				16	3			399	410		10.1080/14763141.2017.1332236			2017	2017	This study evaluated baseball pitching accuracy using a variety of parameters to quantify pitching errors and analysed the validity of the accuracy measurements by comparing the outcomes of two small groups of pitchers. Several professional (n=5) and high school (n=8) pitchers threw 30 pitches each, including 20 fastballs and 10 breaking balls. To assess pitching accuracy, pitch locations relative to the catcher's mitt (as the target) were evaluated with various parameters, including major/minor radius, an area of 95% confidence ellipse, absolute error, constant error and pitch location trajectory. Compared to the high school pitchers, the professional pitchers exhibited shorter major and minor radii in their 20 fastball pitches (p<0.05), more accurate control in the lateral direction (p<0.05), and shorter pitch location trajectories (p<0.05). The evaluation methods presented in this study can objectively assess pitching accuracy and may thus provide useful coaching feedback with visual information.		[Kawamura, Katsue; Shinya, Masahiro; Kobayashi, Hirofumi; Obata, Hiroki; Kuwata, Masumi; Nakazawa, Kimitaka] Univ Tokyo, Grad Sch Arts & Sci, Dept Life Sci, Tokyo, Japan; [Shinya, Masahiro; Kobayashi, Hirofumi; Obata, Hiroki; Kuwata, Masumi; Nakazawa, Kimitaka] Japan Sci & Technol Agcy, CREST, Tokyo, Japan; [Kawamura, Katsue] Univ Tokyo, Grad Sch Arts & Sci, Dept Life Sci, Tokyo, Japan								23							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000407059400009	7	Article; Article		
J	Rodriguez, Elizabeth C. Pickering; Watsford, Mark L.; Bower, Rob G.; Murphy, Aron J.								The relationship between lower body stiffness and injury incidence in female netballers								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				16	3			361	373		10.1080/14763141.2017.1319970			2017	2017	The aim of this study was to provide contemporary information on injury rates in an elite and sub-elite netball population and to explore the relationship between lower body stiffness and lower body injuries. One elite and two sub-elite teams of female netballers (n=29) performed the vertical hop test to assess active lower body stiffness (K-vert) and myometry to assess quasi-static stiffness. Lower body injuries were monitored via self-reporting and liaison with physiotherapists. Twelve lower body non-contact injuries were sustained by 10 players, equating to 11.29 lower body injuries per 1,000 exposure hours. The most commonly injured sites were the calf (33%) and ankle (25%). No significant differences between K-vert of injured and non-injured players were reported, however, injured elite players recorded significantly higher season mean quasi-static stiffness in the soleus (p=0.037) and Achilles (p=0.004) than non-injured elite players. Elite and sub-elite netball players recorded a higher injury incidence than previous reports of injuries in recreational netballers. Within the constraints of the study, relatively high stiffness of the soleus and Achilles appears to be related to lower body non-contact injury incidence in female netballers, particularly at the elite level. These results provide a basis for development of injury prevention strategies.		[Rodriguez, Elizabeth C. Pickering; Watsford, Mark L.; Bower, Rob G.] Univ Technol Sydney, Fac Hlth, Moore Pk, Australia; [Murphy, Aron J.] Univ New England, Sch Sci & Technol, Armidale, NSW, Australia; [Rodriguez, Elizabeth C. Pickering] Univ Technol Sydney, Fac Hlth, Moore Pk, Australia								65							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000407059400006	38	Article; Article		
J	O'Reilly, Martin A.; Whelan, Darragh F.; Ward, Tomas E.; Delahunt, Eamonn; Caulfield, Brian								Classification of lunge biomechanics with multiple and individual inertial measurement units								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				16	3			342	360		10.1080/14763141.2017.1314544			2017	2017	Lunges are a common, compound lower limb resistance exercise. If completed with aberrant technique, the increased stress on the joints used may increase risk of injury. This study sought to first investigate the ability of inertial measurement units (IMUs), when used in isolation and combination, to (a) classify acceptable and aberrant lunge technique (b) classify exact deviations in lunge technique. We then sought to investigate the most important features and establish the minimum number of top-ranked features and decision trees that are needed to maintain maximal system classification efficacy. Eighty volunteers performed the lunge with acceptable form and 11 deviations. Five IMUs positioned on the lumbar spine, thighs, and shanks recorded these movements. Time and frequency domain features were extracted from the IMU data and used to train and test a variety of classifiers. A single-IMU system achieved 83% accuracy, 62% sensitivity, and 90% specificity in binary classification and a five-IMU system achieved 90% accuracy, 80% sensitivity, and 92% specificity. A five-IMU set-up can also detect specific deviations with 70% accuracy. System efficiency was improved and classification quality was maintained when using only 20% of the top-ranked features for training and testing classifiers.		[O'Reilly, Martin A.; Whelan, Darragh F.; Caulfield, Brian] Univ Coll Dublin, Insight Ctr Data Analyt, Dublin, Ireland; [O'Reilly, Martin A.; Whelan, Darragh F.; Delahunt, Eamonn; Caulfield, Brian] Univ Coll Dublin, Sch Publ Hlth Physiotherapy & Sports Sci, Dublin, Ireland; [Ward, Tomas E.] Maynooth Univ, Insight Ctr Data Analyt, Maynooth, Kildare, Ireland; [O'Reilly, Martin A.] Univ Coll Dublin, Insight Ctr Data Analyt, Dublin, Ireland; [O'Reilly, Martin A.] Univ Coll Dublin, Sch Publ Hlth Physiotherapy & Sports Sci, Dublin, Ireland								30							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000407059400005	36	Article; Article		
J	Challoumas, Dimitrios; Dimitrakakis, Georgios								Insights into the epidemiology, aetiology and associations of infraspinatus atrophy in overhead athletes: a systematic review								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				16	3			325	341		10.1080/14763141.2017.1306096			2017	2017	Infraspinatus atrophy (IA) is much more prevalent in overhead sports compared with the general population. Its exact aetiology in this group of athletes remains unclear and definitive associations with pathology and performance have not yet been reached. The aim of this systematic review is to present the evidence on IA in overhead athletes focussing on the proposed mechanisms of suprascapular neuropathy and its associations with shoulder pathology and performance. A thorough literature search via Medline, EMBASE and Scopus was performed. From the nine articles identified, the majority of authors propose suprascapular nerve (SN) injury at the spinoglenoid notch; however, the suprascapular notch has also been suggested as a potential site of injury. With regard to the exact mechanism of suprascapular neuropathy, the majority of authors propose repeated traction of the nerve during extreme shoulder abduction and horizontal adduction and/or eccentric contractions of the infraspinatus. In the limited relevant literature, convincing links between IA and performance or shoulder pathology have not been identified. IA in overhead sports is most likely of multi-factorial aetiology. Important questions about IA and its significance in overhead sports remain unanswered and more biomechanical and prospective studies are warranted to provide further insights into this athletic injury.		[Challoumas, Dimitrios] Univ Cambridge, Dept Physiol Dev & Neurosci, Human Anat Teaching Grp, Downing Site, Cambridge, England; [Dimitrakakis, Georgios] Univ Hosp Wales, Dept Cardiothorac Surg, Cardiff, S Glam, Wales; [Challoumas, Dimitrios] Univ Cambridge, Dept Physiol Dev & Neurosci, Human Anat Teaching Grp, Downing Site, Cambridge, England								15							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000407059400004	45	Article; Article		
J	Popp, Nels; McEvoy, Chad; Watanabe, Nicholas								Do college athletics marketers convert social media growth into ticket sales?								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				18	2			212	227		10.1108/IJSMS-05-2017-090			2017	2017	Purpose - The purpose of this paper is to examine the relationship between growth in social media engagement, as defined by annual percentage increase in Facebook Likes and Twitter Followers, of US college athletics departments and outcome metrics of attendance and ticket revenue. Design/methodology/approach - Regression models were developed to determine the amount of variance in dependent variables (attendance and ticket revenue) could be explained by several independent variables, including team success, team history, conference affiliation, Facebook Likes, and Twitter Followers. Four years of data were collected for each variable. Findings - The regression models predicted between 53 and 88 percent of the variance among dependent variables. Social media measures, however, were not statistically significant predictors of attendance or ticket revenue. Research limitations/implications - The number of Facebook Likes and Twitter Followers were used as a proxy measure of social media engagement. While growth in Likes and Followers are a popular and convenient gauge of social media engagement, they represent a single measure of a multi-faceted construct. Also, data were limited to public university athletics departments, which are required to disclose annual ticket revenue. Findings may not be generalizable to other sport organizations. Originality/value - While numerous studies have examined the impact of social media on sport organizations, no prior studies have attempted to draw empirical connections between social media marketing efforts and revenue measures within sport organizations. This study represents the first to begin to examine this relationship.		[Popp, Nels] Univ N Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC 27599 USA; [McEvoy, Chad] Northern Illinois Univ, Dept Kinesiol & Phys Educ, De Kalb, IL USA; [Watanabe, Nicholas] Univ Mississippi, Dept Hlth Exercise Sci & Recreat Management, Oxford, MS USA; [Popp, Nels] Univ N Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC 27599 USA								13							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000402917000006	57	Article; Article		
J	Wang, Michael Chih-Hung								Investigating the different congruence effects on sports sponsor brand equity								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				18	2			196	211		10.1108/IJSMS-05-2017-089			2017	2017	Purpose - The purpose of this paper is to empirically investigate the following relationships in the Asian sports sponsorship context: first, the influence of self-congruity and perceived congruence on sponsor brand identification and sponsor credibility, respectively; second, the influence of sponsor brand identification and sponsor credibility on sponsor brand equity; and third, the mediating effect of sponsor brand identification and sponsor credibility on the relationship that self-congruity and perceived congruence each have with sponsor brand equity. Design/methodology/approach - A field study was conducted in Taiwan, where 410 questionnaires were collected from baseball fans of the Chinese Professional Baseball League (the local professional baseball league). Findings - The findings support all of the hypotheses and reveal that self-congruity and perceived congruence leverage sponsor brand equity through sponsor brand identification and sponsor credibility, respectively. Both sponsor brand identification and sponsor credibility partially mediate the relationship that self-congruity and perceived congruence each have with sponsor brand equity. Originality/value - The conceptual model investigated both direct and indirect (i.e. mediated) effects by providing different theoretical explanations to explore how self-congruity and perceived congruence leverage sponsor brand equity in the Asian sports sponsorship context.		[Wang, Michael Chih-Hung] Feng Chia Univ, Dept Business & Adm, Taichung, Taiwan; [Wang, Michael Chih-Hung] Feng Chia Univ, Dept Business & Adm, Taichung, Taiwan								22							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000402917000005	63	Article; Article		
J	Armstrong, Neil								Top 10 Research Questions Related to Youth Aerobic Fitness								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				88	2			130	148		10.1080/02701367.2017.1303298			2017	2017	Peak oxygen uptake ((V) over dotO(2)) is internationally recognized as the criterion measure of youth aerobic fitness, but despite pediatric data being available for almost 80 years, its measurement and interpretation in relation to growth, maturation, and health remain controversial. The trainability of youth aerobic fitness continues to be hotly debated, and causal mechanisms of training-induced changes and their modulation by chronological age, biological maturation, and sex are still to be resolved. The daily physical activity of youth is characterized by intermittent bouts and rapid changes in intensity, but physical activity of the intensity and duration required to determine peak (V) over dotO(2) is rarely (if ever) experienced by most youth. In this context, it may therefore be the transient kinetics of pulmonary (V) over dotO(2) that best reflect youth aerobic fitness. There are remarkably few rigorous studies of youth pulmonary (V) over dotO(2) kinetics at the onset of exercise in different intensity domains, and the influence of chronological age, biological maturation, and sex during step changes in exercise intensity are not confidently documented. Understanding the trainability of the parameters of youth pulmonary (V) over dotO(2) kinetics is primarily based on a few comparative studies of athletes and nonathletes. The underlying mechanisms of changes due to training require further exploration. The aims of the present article are therefore to provide a brief overview of aerobic fitness during growth and maturation, increase awareness of current controversies in its assessment and interpretation, identify gaps in knowledge, raise 10 relevant research questions, and indicate potential areas for future research.		[Armstrong, Neil] Univ Exeter, Exeter, Devon, England; [Armstrong, Neil] Univ Exeter, Childrens Hlth & Exercise Res Ctr, St Lukes Campus, Exeter EX1 2LU, Devon, England								32							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000401116500002	128	Article; Article		
J	Bruner, Mark W.; Balish, Shea M.; Forrest, Christopher; Brown, Sarah; Webber, Kristine; Gray, Emily; McGuckin, Matthew; Keats, Melanie R.; Rehman, Laurene; Shields, Christopher A.								Ties That Bond: Youth Sport as a Vehicle for Social Identity and Positive Youth Development								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				88	2			209	214		10.1080/02701367.2017.1296100			2017	2017	An emerging area of research has focused on understanding how the group dynamics of a sport team influence positive youth development (PYD). The identities that youth form through their membership in sport teams (i.e., social identities) have been found to influence teammate behavior and team performance. Yet, minimal work exists on social identity and PYD in youth sport. Purpose: The purpose of this study was to investigate the relationship between social identity and PYD in sport. Method: Youth engaged in recreational sport (N = 219; M-age = 11.61 years, SD = 1.39 years) completed measures of social identity and PYD in sport. The social identity measure assessed 3 dimensions including ingroup ties (IGT; perceptions of similarity, bonding, belongingness), cognitive centrality (importance of being a team member), and ingroup affect (IGA; feelings associated with group membership). A regression analysis was performed separately for 4 PYD outcomes (personal and social skills, goal setting, initiative, negative experiences) with the 3 dimensions of social identity entered as predictors. Results: Regression analyses revealed that IGT and IGA were positively associated with personal and social skills (R-2 Adj. =.29). Further, IGT predicted initiative (R-2 Adj. = .16), whereas IGA was positively associated with goal setting (R-2 Adj. = .17) and negatively associated with negative experiences (R-2 Adj. = .08). Conclusion: The findings extend previous research highlighting the benefits of social identity on teammate behavior and team performance and demonstrate how social identity may contribute to PYD through sport.		[Bruner, Mark W.; Forrest, Christopher; McGuckin, Matthew] Nipissing Univ, North Bay, ON, Canada; [Balish, Shea M.; Webber, Kristine; Keats, Melanie R.; Rehman, Laurene] Dalhousie Univ, Halifax, NS, Canada; [Brown, Sarah; Gray, Emily; Shields, Christopher A.] Acadia Univ, Wolfville, NS, Canada; [Bruner, Mark W.] Nipissing Univ, Sch Phys & Hlth Educ, 100 Coll Dr,Box 5002, North Bay, ON P1B 8L7, Canada								83							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000401116500008	35	Article; Article		
J	Lozano-Berges, Gabriel; Gomez-Bruton, Alejandro; Matute-Llorente, Angel; Julian-Almarcegui, Cristina; Gomez-Cabello, Alba; Gonzalez-Aguero, Alejandro; Casajus, Jose A.; Vicente-Rodriguez, German								Assessing Fat Mass of Adolescent Swimmers Using Anthropometric Equations: A DXA Validation Study								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				88	2			230	236		10.1080/02701367.2017.1284976			2017	2017	Purpose: The aim of the present study was to determine which of the published anthropometric equations is the most appropriate to estimate body-fat percentage (BF%) in adolescent swimmers. Method: Eighty-eight swimmers (45 boys, 43 girls) participated in this study. Following the recommendations of the International Society of the Advancement of Kinanthropometry, biceps, triceps, subscapular, iliac-crest, supraspinale, front-thigh, and medial calf skinfold thicknesses were measured. Waist, hip, midthigh, calf, relaxed arm, and arm flexed and tensed girths were also registered. BF% was measured with dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA) to obtain the reference value. Existing anthropometric equations were applied, and BF% results obtained from anthropometric equations were compared to DXA BF% results with the modified Bland-Altman. Results: The Flavel, Durnin-Rahaman-Siri, and Durnin-Rahaman-Brozek were the only equations that did not demonstrate statistically significant differences when compared with DXA. Conclusion: The present study showed that the best anthropometric equation from existing literature to estimate BF% in swimmers is that proposed by Durnin-Rahaman (independently of applying the Siri or Brozek equation).		[Lozano-Berges, Gabriel; Gomez-Bruton, Alejandro; Matute-Llorente, Angel; Julian-Almarcegui, Cristina; Gomez-Cabello, Alba; Gonzalez-Aguero, Alejandro; Casajus, Jose A.; Vicente-Rodriguez, German] Univ Zaragoza, Zaragoza, Spain; [Lozano-Berges, Gabriel; Gomez-Bruton, Alejandro; Matute-Llorente, Angel; Julian-Almarcegui, Cristina; Gonzalez-Aguero, Alejandro; Casajus, Jose A.; Vicente-Rodriguez, German] AgriFood Inst Aragon IA2, Zaragoza, Spain; [Gomez-Cabello, Alba] Def Univ Ctr, Zaragoza, Spain; [Vicente-Rodriguez, German] Univ Zaragoza, Fac Hlth & Sport Sci, GENUD Growth Exercise Nutr & Dev Res Grp, C Pedro Cerbuna 12, E-50009 Zaragoza, Spain								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000401116500011	29	Article; Article		
J	Schairer, William W.; Nwachukwu, Benedict U.; Lyman, Stephen; Gulotta, Lawrence V.								Arthroplasty treatment of proximal humerus fractures: 14-year trends in the United States								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				45	2			92	96		10.1080/00913847.2017.1311199			2017	2017	Objectives: Proximal humerus fractures are a common injury in the elderly population that can usually be managed non-operatively. However, arthroplasty has become increasingly utilized for complex fractures and poor bone quality. We evaluated national trends in treatment, specifically looking at the adoption of reverse total shoulder arthroplasty. Methods: The incidence of proximal humerus fractures was calculated from the Nationwide Emergency Department Database (NEDD) from 2006 to 2012. The Nationwide Inpatient Sample (NIS) was used to select patients from 2000 to 2013 with proximal humerus fractures treated with open reduction and internal fixation (ORIF), total shoulder arthroplasty (TSA), reverse total shoulder arthroplasty (RSA), and hemiarthroplasty (HSA). RSA and TSA shared the same ICD-9 code until 2010. Results: The incidence of proximal humerus fracture was stable from 2006 to 2012. Hemiarthroplasty was the majority treatment choice for arthroplasty in the early 2000's. However, in 2008, there was a large decrease in utilization, to 51.3% in 2013. During this period, utilization of TSA greatly increased, coinciding with a large increase of RSA. By 2013, RSA made up 45.1% of arthroplasty procedures. Conclusion: The rate of proximal humerus fracture appears stable, while we observed both an overall increase in operative intervention. RSA appears to be increasingly chosen over HSA for arthroplasty treatment of proximal humerus fractures, an observation more pronounced in older patients. While clinical results appear promising, it is important to remember that most proximal humerus fractures may be treated successfully with conservative management, and rapid adoption of new technology should be watched carefully to ensure appropriate use.		[Schairer, William W.; Nwachukwu, Benedict U.; Lyman, Stephen; Gulotta, Lawrence V.] Hosp Special Surg, Dept Orthopaed Surg, 535 E 70th St, New York, NY 10021 USA; [Schairer, William W.] Hosp Special Surg, 535 E 70th St, New York, NY 10021 USA								25							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000400001300005	25	Article; Article		
J	Bruce, Casey M.; Gribble, Phillip A.; Turner, Michael J.; Hubbard-Turner, Tricia; Simon, Janet E.; Thomas, Abbey C.								Number of knee and ankle injuries is associated with poor physical but not mental health								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				45	2			82	86		10.1080/00913847.2017.1301194			2017	2017	The knee and ankle are among the most commonly injured joints in the body. Long-term strength and neuromuscular control deficits are common following these injuries, yielding lifelong disability and poor quality of life. However, it is unknown how the number of injuries sustained influences quality of life. Objectives: Determine the association between the number of ankle or knee injuries sustained and physical and mental quality of life. Methods: A total of 806 ankle-injured (age: 45.2 +/- 15.3 yrs; body mass index [BMI]: 28.6 +/- 7.4 kg/m(2)), 658 knee-injured (age:49.3 +/- 16.1 yrs; BMI:28.4 +/- 7.4 kg/m(2)), and 996 uninjured (age:43.4 +/- 16.1 yrs; BMI: 26.9 +/- 6.5 kg/m(2)) adults completed the SF-8 survey to determine the physical (PCS) and mental (MCS) contributions to quality of life. Respondents were categorized by injury history (ankle, knee, none) and number of injuries (0, 1, 2, or 3 or more [3+]) to the same joint. Backward linear regression models were used to determine the association between quality of life, age, and injury history separately for SF-8 PCS and MCS, as well as ankle versus knee injury. Results: Reporting 1, 2, or 3+ ankle injuries along with age predicted SF-8 PCS (P < 0.001). Further, 1 or 2 ankle injuries and age (P < 0.001) predicted SF-8 MCS. Reporting 1, 2, or 3+ knee injuries along with age significantly predicted SF-8 PCS (P < 0.001). Age, but not knee injury history, significantly predicted SF-8 MCS (P < 0.001). Conclusion: Current age and history of sustaining at least one injury negatively impact physical quality of life following either a knee or ankle injury. However, mental quality of life was predicted most consistently by age. Efforts to reduce injuries should be employed to improve quality of life, but more research is needed to determine what other factors contribute to quality of life across the lifespan.		[Bruce, Casey M.; Hubbard-Turner, Tricia; Thomas, Abbey C.] Univ N Carolina, Biodynam Res Lab, Dept Kinesiol, Charlotte, NC 28223 USA; [Gribble, Phillip A.] Univ Kentucky, Dept Rehabil Sci, Lexington, KY USA; [Turner, Michael J.] Univ N Carolina, Lab Syst Physiol, Dept Kinesiol, Charlotte, NC 28223 USA; [Simon, Janet E.] Ohio Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Athens, OH 45701 USA; [Thomas, Abbey C.] 9201 Univ City Blvd,231 Belk Gym, Charlotte, NC 28223 USA								8							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000400001300003	18	Article; Article		
J	Havenetidis, Konstantinos; Paxinos, Thrasivoulos; Kardaris, Dionysios; Bissas, Athanassios								Prognostic potential of body composition indices in detecting risk of musculoskeletal injury in army officer cadet profiles								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				45	2			114	119		10.1080/00913847.2017.1298977			2017	2017	Objectives: High values in most of the body composition indices have been related to musculoskeletal injuries, but limited data exists on the accuracy of these diagnoses when detecting musculoskeletal injuries in military populations. Methods: The suitability of body fat percentage, body mass index, fat mass index and fat free mass index to identify injury risk was examined in a group of army officer recruits. All body composition diagnoses were measured in 268 male army officer recruits prior to the commencement of basic combat training. Musculoskeletal injury was identified using codes from the International Classification of Diseases. The area under the curve, in the receiver operating characteristic curve, was used to quantify the overall ability to discriminate between those who were injured and those who were not. Results: The statistics indicated that all indices, apart from body mass index, had a significant possibility to detect musculoskeletal injury potential (p < 0.05; 61%-63%). The respective cut-off points used to classify individuals as injured were for body fat percentage >22, for fat mass index >6.5 and for fat free mass index <16.5. Conclusion: Body mass index values can not similarly detect the possibility of occurrence of musculoskeletal injuries in army officer recruits, just as other body composition diagnoses related to fat mass or/and free fat mass. However, the cut off-points related to the overall diagnostic performance of each body composition index should be used with caution and in accordance with the aims of each experimental setting.		[Havenetidis, Konstantinos; Paxinos, Thrasivoulos; Kardaris, Dionysios] Hellen Army Acad, Human Performance Rehabil Lab, Fac Phys & Cultural Educ, Vari, Attiki, Greece; [Bissas, Athanassios] Leeds Beckett Univ, Carnegie Sch Sport, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England; [Havenetidis, Konstantinos] Hellen Army Acad, Human Performance Rehabil Lab, Fac Phys & Cultural Educ, Vari, Attiki, Greece								15							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000400001300009	42	Article; Article		
J	Seabra, Pedro; Van Eck, Carola F.; Sa, Marcia; Torres, Joao								Are professional handball players at risk for developing a glenohumeral internal rotation deficit in their dominant arm?								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				45	2			77	81		10.1080/00913847.2017.1295774			2017	2017	Objectives: Overhead athletes, such as baseball players, have been shown to have adaptive changes in the shoulder range of motion (ROM) of their dominant arm. Professional handball players are a unique subtype of overhead athletes with very different demands from baseball players. The aim of this study was to determine if professional handball players demonstrate differences in shoulder ROM between their dominant and non-dominant arm and try to relate them with new variables. Methods: Fifty professional male handball players were included and completed a questionnaire regarding age at which they started to play, number of hours they practice a week, field position and arm dominance. ROM measurements were performed including forward flexion (FF), external rotation with the shoulder in abduction (ABER) and with adducted arm (ADER) and internal rotation with shoulder in abduction (IR). Statistical analysis was performed to determine differences in ROM between the dominant and non-dominant shoulder and if there is a relationship between these differences and shoulder load or field position. Results: The dominant arm showed decreased internal rotation (47 vs. 56 degrees, p < 0.001) and increased external rotation both with the arm abducted (99 vs. 88 degrees, p < 0.001) and at the side (62 vs 57 degrees, p = 0.001). This was not correlated with shoulder load for any movement (FF, p = 0.980; ABER, p = 0.741; ADER, p = 0.803; IR, p = 0.085) but was dependent on field position with first line players showing the highest internal rotation deficit (13 degrees vs. 6-7 degrees in the other field positions, p = 0.013). Conclusion: This study showed that professional male handball players with a first line position have a significant risk for developing a glenohumeral internal rotation deficit, similar to the phenomenon seen in baseball pitchers.		[Seabra, Pedro; Torres, Joao] Univ Porto, Fac Med, Oporto, Portugal; [Sa, Marcia] Primary Healthcare Unit Saude Familia, Maia, Portugal; [Van Eck, Carola F.] Kerlan Jobe Orthopaed Clin, Los Angeles, CA USA; [Seabra, Pedro] Univ Porto, Fac Med, Oporto, Portugal; [Seabra, Pedro] Rua Aurelia Sousa 196 Ap 206, P-4465283 Sao Mamede Infesta, Portugal								12							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000400001300002	33	Article; Article		
J	Zhang, Xu; Dhawan, Vikas; Yu, Yadong; Zhang, Guisheng; Shao, Xinzhong								A minimally invasive approach for cubital tunnel release and ulnar nerve transposition								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				45	2			110	113		10.1080/00913847.2017.1295775			2017	2017	Objectives: The aim of the study is to introduce a new minimally invasive technique for ulnar nerve release and transposition. Methods: From January 2010 to May 2011, 51 patients with cubital tunnel syndrome were treated through a 1.5 to 2cm incision. Limb functional recovery, scar esthetics, sensitivity of scar, numbness of the operating area, and patient satisfaction were assessed. Results: No wound hematoma nor infection was observed in the group. The time of operation was 36 +/- 17.2 minutes. At the final follow-up of 63 +/- 7.3 months, 2-point discrimination of the small finger was improved from 6.3 +/- 2.2 mm to 5.2 +/- 2.4 mm. Grip and pinch strength of the hand were improved from 14.2 +/- 7.7 kg and 3.7 +/- 2.4 kg to 35.2 +/- 12.7 kg and 4.1 +/- 2.8 kg, respectively. The motor nerve conduction velocity was improved from 36.5 +/- 11.2 to 44.6 +/- 6.7 (m/sec). The Disabilities of the Shoulder, Arm, and Hand questionnaire score was improved from 37.2 +/- 23.8 to 10.5 +/- 9.6. No patients reported scar pain, sensitivity of scar, or numbness of the operating area. No revision surgery was needed. Michigan Hand Outcome score for aesthetics was 94.6% +/- 5.1 and satisfaction was 92 +/- 8, respectively. We obtained 33 excellent, 12 good, 5 fair, and 1 poor result. Conclusion: Ulnar nerve decompression with anterior transposition can be safely and effectively accomplished through the small incision. It can be an alternative technique producing good appearance.		[Zhang, Xu; Yu, Yadong; Zhang, Guisheng; Shao, Xinzhong] Hebei Med Univ, Dept Hand Surg, Hosp 3, Shijiazhuang, Peoples R China; [Dhawan, Vikas] Univ Kentucky, Dept Orthoped & Sports Med, Lexington, KY USA; [Shao, Xinzhong] Hebei Med Univ, Dept Hand Surg, Hosp 3, Shijiazhuang, Peoples R China								7							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000400001300008	33	Article; Article		
J	Rosin, Benjamin								Is marathon running toxic? An observational study of cardiovascular disease prevalence and longevity in 54 male marathon runners								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				45	2			105	109		10.1080/00913847.2017.1288545			2017	2017	Objectives: Recent literature suggests reduced benefits associated with high intensity (HIT) and or sustained intensity exercise training (SIT). While important, they tend to contrast with other studies of HIT and SIT and may not be representative of all individuals wishing to participate in activities such as marathon running. The purpose of this observational report is to describe a 45-year history of 54 long distance runners, their incidence of death from cardiovascular disease and their ages at death compared to the normal population. Methods: Data were collected longitudinally on all 54 members of a Southern California mens running club by the author, a cardiologist with 45-years of experience, member of the running club, and personal physician for most of the men for over 40years. Retrospective and observational data were collected from direct professional and personal contact with the 54 men in the running club. Results: Closely monitored group of marathon runners with extreme HIT and SIT revealed a low incidence of cardiovascular disease (CVD) with an extended longevity relative to the general population. Conclusion: The benefits of exercise for reducing risk of chronic disease, including CVD, are well known. Whether these benefits extend to the more intense and prolonged exercise associated with marathon running is unclear. However, as evidenced in the observational data presented here, at least in some populations, years of high-intensity, prolonged exercise may not be as toxic as suggested by others. Whether this is due to self-selection or predisposition is not well understood but merits further study.		[Rosin, Benjamin] Torrance Mem Med Ctr, Dept Cardiol, Torrance, CA 90505 USA; [Rosin, Benjamin] Torrance Mem Med Ctr, Dept Cardiol, Torrance, CA 90505 USA								2							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000400001300007	28	Article; Article		
J	Yagnatovsky, Michelle; Hien Pham; Rokito, Andrew; Jazrawi, Laith; Strauss, Eric								Type IV hypersensitivity reactions following Dermabond adhesive utilization in knee surgery: A Report of Three Cases								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				45	2			195	198		10.1080/00913847.2017.1283208			2017	2017	We retrospectively reviewed the records of 3 patients (3 knees) with a delayed type hypersensitivity reaction following Dermabond exposure after an orthopaedic knee procedure. Delayed hypersensitivity reactions are mediated by CD4+ helper T cells. The use of skin adhesives in place of traditional sutures is increasing in popularity given Dermabond's potential benefits of decreased wound infection rate and better wound approximation. However, hypersensitivity reactions to the cyanoacrylate material in Dermabond have been described. Differentiating hypersensitivity reactions from post-operative infections is important as septic arthritis is a potentially devastating complication. This case series presents the challenge of properly diagnosing and managing hypersensitivity reactions. Consultation with allergists and dermatologists may be appropriate for ascertaining the nature of the surgical site complication and proper management. The recommended management of hypersensitivity-type reactions is a course of topical steroids and infection work up if needed.		[Yagnatovsky, Michelle; Hien Pham; Rokito, Andrew; Jazrawi, Laith; Strauss, Eric] NYU, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Langone Hosp Joint Dis, New York, NY USA; [Strauss, Eric] 333 E 38th St, New York, NY 10016 USA								14							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000400001300021	7	Article; Article		
J	McDonald, Lucas S.; Degen, Ryan M.; Altchek, David W.								Surgical management of acute claw hand in a competitive baseball player								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				45	2			191	194		10.1080/00913847.2017.1258954			2017	2017	We describe an unusual case of acute ulnar neuropathy with a flexible claw hand deformity in a baseball pitcher. Treatment involved ulnar nerve decompression at the elbow with subsequent recurrence of symptoms upon return to pitching. Definitive treatment included a wide secondary release of tethered locations resulting in return of function. At final follow-up the patient has returned to unrestricted baseball throwing activities.		[McDonald, Lucas S.; Degen, Ryan M.; Altchek, David W.] Hosp Special Surg, Dept Sports Med & Shoulder Surg, 535 E 70th St, New York, NY 10021 USA; [McDonald, Lucas S.] Hosp Special Surg, Dept Sports Med & Shoulder Surg, 535 E 70th St, New York, NY 10021 USA								2							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000400001300020	19	Article; Article		
J	Zhou, Liangjun; Zhang, James J.								Variables affecting the market demand of sport lottery sales in China The case of Guangdong Province								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				18	1			116	136		10.1108/IJSMS-05-2016-0026			2017	2017	Purpose - The purpose of this paper is to examine the market demand of sport lottery in China from the following perspectives: available types and varieties of sport lottery, number of retail outlets, public welfare funds, promotion costs, per capita income, and population. Design/methodology/approach - As the earliest province of issuing the sales of sport lottery and having one of the largest sales volumes in China, Guangdong Province was chosen for conducting the current study. Data were obtained from 14 sport lottery administration and distribution centers and statistics bureaus of 14 corresponding municipal cities. Multiple regression analysis was used. Findings - Multiple regression analyses revealed that number of retail outlets, promotion cost, per capita income, and public welfare funds were positively (p < 0.05) predictive of sport lottery sales; however, available types and varieties of sport lottery were not found to be significantly (p < 0.05) related to total sport lottery sales. The findings are discussed in the context of theories and practices in the marketing and administration of sport lottery sales in China. Research limitations/implications - Similar studies are suggested to be conducted in provinces and regions beyond Guangdong Province. Originality/value - This study combined socioeconomic characteristics of the population, lottery game characteristics and management factors for the first time.		[Zhou, Liangjun] Guangzhou Sport Univ, Inst Leisure Sport & Management, Guangzhou, Guangdong, Peoples R China; [Zhang, James J.] Univ Georgia, Dept Kinesiol, Athens, GA 30602 USA; [Zhou, Liangjun] Guangzhou Sport Univ, Inst Leisure Sport & Management, Guangzhou, Guangdong, Peoples R China								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000396579100009	135	Article; Article		
J	Qian, Tyreal Yizhou; Wang, Jerred Junqi; Chou, Winston Wen-hao; Kim, Euisoo; Zhang, James J.; Gong, Bo								When the future of Chinese soccer is at stake Chinese youth's attention, involvement and satisfaction								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				18	1			29	47		10.1108/IJSMS-09-2016-0065			2017	2017	Purpose - The purpose of this paper is to examine the impact of Chinese youth's attention to and involvement with Chinese soccer and its professional league, the Chinese Super League (CSL), on their level of satisfaction. Design/methodology/approach - A survey study was employed to test the hypotheses. Research participants (n = 948) were students from five major universities that represented each of the five main geographic regions of China. Data were randomly assigned into two halves: one half for CFA (n = 474) and the other half for structural equation modeling (SEM) (n = 474). Mplus 7.0 was used to conduct both the CFA and SEM. Findings - The findings of this study indicated an overall lack of attention to and involvement with Chinese soccer and CSL among Chinese youths. Discussions have been presented on the causes of the lack of youth passion for Chinese soccer and suggestions have been articulated to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of policy formulation, business operation and marketing strategy. Originality/value - The present study built on the extant sport management literature, demonstrated the complexity of consumers' cognition and conation in the professional soccer setting, and revealed counter-intuitive relationship between attitudinal traits and behavioral patterns, which in turn provided unique insights for Chinese professional soccer marketers, managers and administrators.		[Qian, Tyreal Yizhou] Shanghai Univ Sport, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Wang, Jerred Junqi; Chou, Winston Wen-hao; Kim, Euisoo; Zhang, James J.] Univ Georgia, Dept Kinesiol, Athens, GA 30602 USA; [Gong, Bo] Shanghai Univ Sport, Coll Phys Educ & Training, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Gong, Bo] Shanghai Univ Sport, Coll Phys Educ & Training, Shanghai, Peoples R China								15							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000396579100003	122	Article; Article		
J	Zhou, Liangjun; Wang, Jerred Junqi; Chen, Xiaoying; Lei, Chundong; Zhang, James J.; Meng, Xiao								The development of NBA in China: a glocalization perspective								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				18	1			81	94		10.1108/IJSMS-05-2016-0013			2017	2017	Purpose - Building upon the framework of glocalization, the purpose of this paper is to summarize the development of National Basketball Association (NBA) in Chinese market, explore its successful and unsuccessful places, and propose strategies of glocalization for the NBA as well as other overseas sport leagues. Design/methodology/approach - The current case study was organized by summarizing the developmental history of NBA in China, analyzing its current promotional practices, investigating into its marketing strategies, and extrapolating practical references for other sport leagues aiming to penetrating into the Chinese marketplace. Findings - The current case study concluded that when facing the current challenges, the NBA needs to bring authentic American cultural commodities while adding Chinese characteristics to accommodate local fans. Meanwhile, the NBA management needs to continue seeking ways to work out and through the differences in government models and cultural contexts between China and USA. In addition, this study suggested that the research framework of glocalization would be an ever intriguing inquiry needed for other sport organizations or leagues seeking expansion to overseas markets. Originality/value - A thorough case study with the NBA that has achieved huge successes in Chinese markets will provide valuable implications for sport leagues to broaden their overseas markets.		[Zhou, Liangjun; Lei, Chundong; Meng, Xiao] Guangzhou Sport Univ, Dept Sport Management & Leisure Studies, Guangzhou, Guangdong, Peoples R China; [Wang, Jerred Junqi] Univ Georgia, Dept Kinesiol, Athens, GA 30602 USA; [Chen, Xiaoying] Guangzhou Sport Univ, Dept Sport Journalism & Commun, Guangzhou, Guangdong, Peoples R China; [Zhang, James J.] Univ Georgia, Dept Kinesiol, Int Ctr Sport Management, Athens, GA 30602 USA; [Zhou, Liangjun] Guangzhou Sport Univ, Dept Sport Management & Leisure Studies, Guangzhou, Guangdong, Peoples R China								27							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000396579100006	65	Article; Article		
J	Zhang, Yi; Byon, Kevin K.								Push and pull factors associated with the CTTSL game events between on-site and online consumers								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				18	1			48	69		10.1108/IJSMS-04-2016-0007			2017	2017	Purpose - The purpose of this paper is to examine the push and pull factors associated with the consumption of Chinese Table Tennis Super League (CTTSL) game events by online audiences and on-site attendants. Design/methodology/approach - Conducting a comprehensive review of literature and a test of content validity, a questionnaire was formulated to assess push and pull motives, event consumption, and sociodemographic variables. A total of 433 CTTSL event consumers, including 225 respondents who primarily followed CTTSL game events via television and webcasting and 208 respondents who primarily consumed the events by attending live game events. Findings - Structural equation modeling analyses revealed that for online consumers, two push factors, self-esteem and drama excitement, were found to be positively related to the event consumption factors; whereas, social interaction and sport performance factors were found to be negatively predictive of event consumption factors. For on-site consumers, none of the push and pull factors were found to be related to the consumption factors. Research limitations/implications - These results indicate that unlike research findings derived in other research settings mainly conducted in Western countries, push and pull factors are more functional for online CTTSL consumers who are of comparatively stronger fandom level, which are likely affected by CTTSL's contemporary operations. Originality/value - Enriching the dual process theory through examining its applicability in studying sport consumer behavior, from both perspectives of internal and external motivations; applying theories and research findings of internal and external motivations that have primarily been derived in Western countries into a professional sport setting in China; identifying unique and diverse perspectives of professional table tennis consumers in China between online and on-site consumers; contrary to the findings derived in Western countries, the motivational factors are more functional for online CTTSL consumers who are of comparatively stronger fandom level, which are likely affected by CTTSL's contemporary operations; and conducting microperspective analyses to study Chinese sport consumer behaviors, which has rarely been done in contemporary scholarly inquiries in China.		[Zhang, Yi] Shanghai Univ Sport, Dept Econ Management, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Byon, Kevin K.] Indiana Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Bloomington, IN 47405 USA; [Zhang, Yi] Shanghai Univ Sport, Dept Econ Management, Shanghai, Peoples R China								11							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000396579100004	59	Article; Article		
J	Krumer, Alex								On Winning Probabilities, Weight Categories, and Home Advantage in Professional Judo								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				18	1			77	96		10.1177/1527002514560576			JAN 2017	2017	Judo is a combat sport with seven different weight categories. In this article, we examined data from 1,902 men's and 1,400 women's fights at the eight most prestigious judo tournaments during the period 2010-2013. Using a single fight as the unit of observation, we found that the probability for the favorite to win against the underdog in the men's half-lightweight category is significantly lower than in most other categories. Moreover, in fights in which only European and/or Asian judokas participate, we found that the men's half-lightweight category is significantly more balanced than all other men's categories. For women, there is no consistent evidence that any one weight category is more balanced than any of the others. Our results indicate that in choosing the members of a national team, it is to some extent reasonable for national coaches to select a lower ranked judoka in the men's halflightweight category over a higher ranked judoka in several other weight categories. We also found that the home advantage increases the probability of winning a single fight for both genders. This result implies that it might be worthwhile for national judo associations to bid to host international tournaments in order to improve the world rankings of their domestic judokas.		[Krumer, Alex] Ariel Univ, Dept Econ & Business Adm, IL-40700 Ariel, Israel; [Krumer, Alex] Ariel Univ, Dept Econ & Business Adm, IL-40700 Ariel, Israel								28							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000397189200005	21	Article; Article		
J	Demir, Ender; Rigoni, Ugo								You Lose, I Feel Better: Rivalry Between Soccer Teams and the Impact of Schadenfreude on Stock Market								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				18	1			58	76		10.1177/1527002514551801			JAN 2017	2017	This study considers the game-related performance of two listed soccer clubs in Italy which share the same stadium: Roma and Lazio. We introduce the performance of the archrival in the analysis. The high level of rivalry in sports should lead to a feeling of pleasure at the suffering of another group (known in German as Schadenfreude) and we assume to see the satisfaction of investor fans with the defeat of the archrival. Likewise, the win of the archrival can have a negative impact on the mood of investors. This study shows that, when club supporters experience the negative performance of their team, the results of their archrival can affect their investment decisions. It is therefore proven that, at least in this respect, the investors (also widely represented by club supporters) are driven by the sentiments conveyed by rivalry which, considered to be a source of emotion, may be relevant to the market.		[Demir, Ender] Istanbul Medeniyet Univ, Unalan Mah Unalan Sok,D-100 Karayolu Yanyol, TR-34700 Istanbul, Turkey; [Rigoni, Ugo] Univ Ca Foscari Venezia, Corp Finance & Financial Inst, Venice, Italy; [Demir, Ender] Istanbul Medeniyet Univ, Unalan Mah Unalan Sok,D-100 Karayolu Yanyol, TR-34700 Istanbul, Turkey								26							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000397189200004	42	Article; Article		
J	Reynolds, Linda J.; De Ste Croix, Mark B. A.; James, David V. B.								The Influence of Exercise Intensity on Postexercise Baroreflex Sensitivity								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				88	1			36	43		10.1080/02701367.2016.1265640			2017	2017	Purpose: The purpose of this study was to investigate the influence of exercise intensity on postexercise supine and tilt baroreflex sensitivity (BRS). Method: Nine healthy, active men performed 2 conditions of interval cycling of 40% maximal work rate (WRmax) and 75% WRmax of matched work done and a control condition of no exercise in a counterbalanced order. BRS outcome measures were determined at preexercise and postexercise up to _24 hr in supine and tilt positions. R-R interval and blood pressure data were collected over consecutive 10-min periods and were analyzed by Fast Fourier transformation analysis. Results: A fully repeated analysis of variance revealed a significant interaction (p,.05) between time and condition in supine for BRSaLF, F(3, 134) = 5.19, p,.05, ES =.39, and BRSTFTG, F(3, 134) = 5.65, p,.05, ES =.41, and in tilt for BRSUpUp, F(3, 134) = 3.54, p,.05, ES =.31, BRSDownDown, F(3, 134) = 5.94, p,.05, ES =.43, BRSaLF, F(4, 134) = 6.23, p,.05, ES =.44, and BRSTFTG, F(4, 134) = 9.22, p,.05, ES =.54. There were significant differences (p,.05) between condition comparisons at +15 min and between control and 75% WRmax and between the 40% WRmax and 75% WRmax conditions at +60 min. At +15 min, BRS was lower in the 75% WRmax condition compared with the 40% WRmax condition and the control condition, and it was lower in the 40% WRmax condition than in the control condition. Conclusion: The findings demonstrate an intensity-dependent relationship in the BRS response following exercise.		[Reynolds, Linda J.; De Ste Croix, Mark B. A.; James, David V. B.] Univ Gloucestershire, Cheltenham, Glos, England; [Reynolds, Linda J.] Univ Gloucestershire, Fac Sci Appl, Oxstalls Lane, Gloucester GL2 9HW, Glos, England								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000398101600005	35	Article; Article		
J	Lima, Rodrigo Antunes; Bugge, Anna; Pfeiffer, Karin Allor; Andersen, Lars Bo								Tracking of Gross Motor Coordination From Childhood Into Adolescence								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				88	1			52	59		10.1080/02701367.2016.1264566			2017	2017	Purpose: The purpose of this study was to analyze tracking and stability of motor coordination in children from age 6 years to ages 9 and 13 years. Method: Data were from the Copenhagen School Child Intervention Study. Motor coordination (MC) was measured using the krperkoordinationstest f=r Kinder (KTK) test. The crude performance score on every item was converted into a standardized " score" based on the original German reference study, which was used to generate a total standardized motor coordination (MQ) score. The MQ scores, which represented children's level of gross MC, were classified as low (MQ score, 85), normal (MQ score = 85-115), or high (MQ score. 115). Pearson correlation was used to calculate the tracking coefficients of each KTK element and MQ score, and weighted kappa was used to analyze maintenance in MC classification groups. Mixed-effects logistic regression analyses were performed to examine the odds of remaining in the low MC group over time based on body mass index (BMI), weight, and height tertiles. Results: Tracking coefficients among the MQ score and each KTK element at different ages were moderate (r>.35). Children in the highest BMI and weight tertiles had a 5.44 and 5.15 times greater chance to be in the lower MC classification group during the 7-year follow-up, respectively, in comparison with children in their lowest tertiles. Conclusion: MC tracked moderately through childhood to early adolescence. Because heavier children had a greater chance to be in the lower MC group at older ages, intervention may be useful at earlier ages for those with lower MC and disadvantageous weight status.		[Lima, Rodrigo Antunes] CAPES Fdn, Minist Educ Brazil, Brasilia, DF, Brazil; [Lima, Rodrigo Antunes; Bugge, Anna] Univ Southern Denmark, Odense, Denmark; [Pfeiffer, Karin Allor] Michigan State Univ, E Lansing, MI 48824 USA; [Andersen, Lars Bo] Sogn & Fjordane Univ Coll, Forde, Norway; [Andersen, Lars Bo] Norwegian Sch Sport Sci, Oslo, Norway; [Lima, Rodrigo Antunes] Univ Southern Denmark, Ctr Res Childhood Hlth, Campusvej 55, DK-5230 Odense, Denmark								31							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000398101600007	37	Article; Article		
J	Paquette, Max R.; Schilling, Brian K.; Bravo, Joshua D.; Peel, Shelby A.; Li, Yuhua; Townsend, Robert J.								Computerized Agility Training Improves Change-of-Direction and Balance Performance Independently of Footwear in Young Adults								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				88	1			44	51		10.1080/02701367.2016.1252031			2017	2017	Understanding the effects of training in different footwear on sporting performance would be useful to coaches and athletes. Purpose: This study compared the effects of computerized agility training using 3 types of footwear on change-of-direction and balance performance in young adults. Method: Thirty recreationally active young adults (M-age = 22.8 +/- 3.1 years; M-height = 1.71 +/- 0.7 m; M-bodymass = 73.4 +/- 10.3 kg) were randomly assigned to a 6-week computerized agility training intervention in 1 of 3 footwear groups (n = 10/group): barefoot, minimal footwear, or traditional shoes. Participants had no previous barefoot or minimal-footwear training experience. Dependent variables included change-of-direction test time to completion, Star Excursion Balance Test, and single-leg stability evaluation. Testing was performed at the start of the training program, after 2 weeks, after 4 weeks, and at the end of the training program. Results: No group or time interactions were found for any of the dependent variables. Time main effects were observed for the performance measures of change of direction, Star Excursion, and single-leg-with-eyes-open stability evaluation. Participants improved in all 3 tests as early as 2 weeks into the intervention, with improvements continuing through the entire 6-week intervention. Conclusions: The lack of interaction and footwear effects suggests that agility and balance improvements during foot agility training are independent of footwear in a recreationally active young-adult population. Computerized agility training improves change-of-direction and balance performance within 2 weeks of training implementation. Future studies should consider footwear training effects in different populations, including frail older adults and athletes.		[Paquette, Max R.; Schilling, Brian K.; Bravo, Joshua D.; Peel, Shelby A.; Li, Yuhua; Townsend, Robert J.] Univ Memphis, 308 Elma Roane Field House, Memphis, TN 38152 USA; [Paquette, Max R.] Univ Memphis, Sch Hlth Studies, 308 Elma Roane Field House, Memphis, TN 38152 USA								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000398101600006	33	Article; Article		
J	Kastelein, Tegan E.; Donges, Cheyne E.; Mendham, Amy E.; Duffield, Rob								The Acute Exercise-Induced Inflammatory Response: A Comparison of Young-Adult Smokers and Nonsmokers								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				88	1			15	25		10.1080/02701367.2016.1239012			2017	2017	Purpose: This study examined postexercise inflammatory and leukocyte responses in smokers and nonsmokers, as well as the effects of cigarette smoking on the acute postexercise inflammatory and leukocyte response in habitual smokers. Method: Eleven recreationally active male smokers and 11 nonsmokers matched for age and aerobic fitness were familiarized and underwent baseline fitness testing. Participants then completed 40 min of cycling at 50% peak aerobic workload. Smokers performed 2 randomized exercise sessions, including an acute postexercise smoking condition (2 cigarettes in 15 min of 12mg tar and 1mg nicotine) and a no-smoking condition, while nonsmokers performed 1 exercise session without smoking. Venous blood was obtained preexercise and postexercise for analysis of interleukin (IL)-6, IL-1 receptor antagonist (ra), tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-a), and c-reactive protein (CRP). Results: No differences existed between groups for resting CRP (d = 0.25-0.46; p =.374-. 617). Despite no baseline difference (d = 0.03-0.07; p =.141-. 70), exercise-induced increases were observed for IL-1 ra in smokers (d = 0.50; p =.024-. 033), which was not observed in the never-smoker group. No between-group difference was observed for IL-6 across all points (d = 0.09-0.5; p =.102-. 728); however, all groups observed significant within-group change (d = 0.27-1.09; p =.001-. 042). Further, TNF-a for smokers smoking was elevated above both smokers not smoking and nonsmokers at baseline and across the protocol (d = 1.20-1.80; d = 0.20-1.0; p =.001-. 035). Additionally, a marked postexercise increase in leukocyte and neutrophil concentrations was evident in smokers smoking compared with nonsmokers and smokers not smoking as indicated by a moderate-to-large effect size (d = 0.72; d = 0.78). Conclusion: Consequently, male smokers exhibit an altered postexercise proinflammatory profile compared with age-and fitness-matched nonsmokers.		[Kastelein, Tegan E.; Donges, Cheyne E.] Charles Sturt Univ, Bathurst, NSW 2795, Australia; [Mendham, Amy E.] Univ Cape Town, ZA-7700 Rondebosch, South Africa; [Duffield, Rob] Univ Technol Sydney, Sydney, NSW 2007, Australia; [Kastelein, Tegan E.] Charles Sturt Univ, Sch Exercise Sci Sport & Hlth, Panorama Ave, Bathurst, NSW 2795, Australia								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000398101600003	37	Article; Article		
J	Zourdos, Michael C.; Bazyler, Caleb D.; Jo, Edward; Khamoui, Andy V.; Park, Bong-Sup; Lee, Sang-Rok; Panton, Lynn B.; Kim, Jeong-Su								Impact of a Submaximal Warm-Up on Endurance Performance in Highly Trained and Competitive Male Runners								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				88	1			114	119		10.1080/02701367.2016.1224294			2017	2017	Purpose: The purpose of this investigation was to examine the effects of a submaximal running warm-up on running performance in male endurance athletes (n = 16, M-age = 21 +/- 2 years, MVO(2)max = 69.3 +/- 5.1 mL/kg/min). Method: Endurance performance was determined by a 30-min distance trial after control and submaximal running warm-up conditions in a randomized crossover fashion. The warm-up began with 5 min of quiet sitting, followed by 6 min of submaximal running split into 2-min intervals at speeds corresponding to 45%, 55%, and 65% maximal oxygen consumption (VO(2)max). A 2-min walk at 3.2 km/hr concluded the 13-min warm-up protocol. For the control condition, participants sat quietly for 13 min. VO2 and heart rate (HR) were determined at Minutes 0, 5, and 13 of the pre-exercise protocol in each condition. Results: At the end of 13 min prior to the distance trial, mean VO2 (warm-up = 14.1 +/- 2.2 mL/kg/min vs. control = 5.5 +/- 1.7 mL/kg/min) and mean HR (warm-up = 105 +/- 11 bpm vs. control = 67 +/- 11 bpm) were statistically greater (p,.001) in the warm-up condition compared with the control condition. The distance run did not statistically differ (p =.37) between the warm-up (7.8 +/- 0.5 km) and control (7.7 +/- 0.6 km) conditions; however, effect size calculation revealed a small effect (d = 0.2) in favor of the warm-up condition. Thus, the warm-up employed may have important and practical implications to determine placing among highlevel athletes in close races. Conclusions: These findings suggest a submaximal running warm-up may have a small but critical effect on a 30-min distance trial in competitive endurance athletes. Further, the warm-up elicited increases in physiological variables VO2 and HR prior to performance; thus, a submaximal specific warm-up should warrant consideration.		[Zourdos, Michael C.; Khamoui, Andy V.] Florida Atlantic Univ, Boca Raton, FL 33431 USA; [Bazyler, Caleb D.] East Tennessee State Univ, Johnson City, TN USA; [Jo, Edward] Calif State Polytech Univ Pomona, Pomona, CA 91768 USA; [Park, Bong-Sup; Panton, Lynn B.; Kim, Jeong-Su] Florida State Univ, 436 Sandels Bldg, Tallahassee, FL 32306 USA; [Lee, Sang-Rok] New Mexico State Univ, Las Cruces, NM 88003 USA; [Kim, Jeong-Su] Florida State Univ, Coll Human Sci, Dept Nutr Food & Exercise Sci, 436 Sandels Bldg, Tallahassee, FL 32306 USA								8							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000398101600014	22	Article; Article		
J	Inaba, Yuki; Tamaki, Sho; Ikebukuro, Haruhiko; Yamada, Koshi; Ozaki, Hiroki; Yoshida, Kazuto								Effect of Changing Table Tennis Ball Material from Celluloid to Plastic on the Post-Collision Ball Trajectory								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				55	1			29	38		10.1515/hukin-2017-0004			JAN 2017	2017	The official material used in table tennis balls was changed from celluloid to plastic, a material free of celluloid, in 2014. The purpose of this study was to understand the differences and similarities in the two types of ball materials by comparing their behavior upon collision with a table. The behavior of the balls before and after collision with a table, at various initial speeds ranging from 15 to 115 km/h, was captured using high-speed cameras. Velocities and spin rates before collision and velocities after collision were computed to calculate the coefficients of restitution and friction. Based on the computed variables, the post-collision trajectories of both balls were calculated by integrating the equation of motion of the ball for simulated service, smash and drive conditions with respect to time. The coefficients of restitution were higher for the plastic balls than the celluloid ones when the initial vertical velocities were higher. The coefficients of friction were higher for plastic balls when the initial horizontal contact point velocities were slower. Because of the differences in the material characteristics, the plastic ball trajectories of services with backspin and drives with great topspin were expected to be different from those of celluloid balls. Since the extent of differences between the two ball types varied depending on the initial conditions, testing at various initial conditions was suggested for comparing and understanding the characteristics of the balls.		[Inaba, Yuki] Japan Inst Sports Sci, Dept Sports Sci, Tokyo, Japan; [Tamaki, Sho] Meio Univ, Dept Sports & Hlth, Nago, Japan; [Ikebukuro, Haruhiko] Japan Table Tennis Assoc, Tokyo, Japan; [Yamada, Koshi] Table Tennis Friendship Club, Shizuoka, Shizuoka, Japan; [Ozaki, Hiroki] Sport Singapore, Singapore Sports Inst, Singapore, Singapore; [Yoshida, Kazuto] Shizuoka Univ, Fac Educ, Shizuoka 4228529, Japan; [Yoshida, Kazuto] Int Table Tennis Federat, Sports Sci & Med Comm, Lausanne, Switzerland; [Inaba, Yuki] Japan Inst Sports Sci, Dept Sports Sci, Kita Ku, 3-15-1 Nishigaoka, Tokyo 1150056, Japan								23							Sport Sciences	WOS:000393123500004	14	Article; Article		
J	Courel-Ibanez, Javier; Sanchez-Alcaraz Martinez, Bernardino Javier; Canas, Jeronimo								Game Performance and Length of Rally in Professional Padel Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				55	1			161	169		10.1515/hukin-2016-0045			JAN 2017	2017	The purpose of this study was to analyse differences in rally length considering attack effectiveness, a players' location and a game outcome in professional padel players. A total of 1527 rallies from 10 male matches of the 2013 Masters Finals of the World Padel Tour were registered through systematic observation. Data treatment included non-parametric mean comparisons (Mann-Withney and Kruskal-Wallis tests), and association analyses (crosstabs and Chi square analysis). In overall, 40% of unforced errors were made within the first 4 s of the rally, over 50% of points were scored between the 5th and 11th s, and 30% of forced errors occurred after the 11th-s of the rally. Hence, the ability to score in rallies of over 11 s duration and not making unforced errors within the first 4 s contributed to the rally outcome. More specifically, winners played longer rallies compared to losers (10.42 +/- 7.77 s vs. 8.42 +/- 6.43 s); particularly at the net, when scoring from the baseline (11.04 +/- 7.64 s vs. 8.90 +/- 5.41 s) and making forced (8.86 +/- 7.44 s vs. 6.86 +/- 6.24 s) and unforced errors (11.91 +/- 9.47 s vs. 8.33 +/- 6.92 s). Such knowledge may have implications in the design and structure of specific training programmes for padel players according to competition requirements.		[Courel-Ibanez, Javier; Canas, Jeronimo] Univ Granada, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Fac Sport Sci, Granada, Spain; [Sanchez-Alcaraz Martinez, Bernardino Javier] Univ Murcia, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Fac Sport Sci, Murcia, Spain; [Courel-Ibanez, Javier; Sanchez-Alcaraz Martinez, Bernardino Javier; Canas, Jeronimo] PadelScience, Granada, Spain; [Courel-Ibanez, Javier] Univ Granada, Fac Sport Sci, Carretera Alfacar S-N, Granada 18011, Spain								102							Sport Sciences	WOS:000393123500016	45	Article; Article		
J	Santos, Daniel P. R.; Barbosa, Roberto N.; Vieira, Luiz H. P.; Santiago, Paulo R. P.; Zagatto, Alessandro M.; Gomes, Matheus M.								Training Level Does Not Affect Auditory Perception of The Magnitude of Ball Spain in Table Tennis								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				55	1			19	27		10.1515/hukin-2017-0003			JAN 2017	2017	Identifying the trajectory and spin of the ball with speed and accuracy is critical for good performance in table tennis. The aim of this study was to analyze the ability of table tennis players presenting different levels of training/experience to identify the magnitude of the ball spin from the sound produced when the racket hit the ball. Four types of "forehand" contact sounds were collected in the laboratory, defined as: Fast Spin (spinning ball forward at 140 r/s); Medium Spin (105 r/s); Slow Spin (84 r/s); and Flat Hit (less than 60 r/s). Thirty-four table tennis players of both sexes (24 men and 10 women) aged 18-40 years listened to the sounds and tried to identify the magnitude of the ball spin. The results revealed that in 50.9% of the cases the table tennis players were able to identify the ball spin and the observed number of correct answers (10.2) was significantly higher (X2 = 270.4, p <0.05) than the number of correct answers that could occur by chance. On the other hand, the results did not show any relationship between the level of training/experience and auditory perception of the ball spin. This indicates that auditory information contributes to identification of the magnitude of the ball spin, however, it also reveals that, in table tennis, the level of training does not interfere with the auditory perception of the ball spin.		[Santos, Daniel P. R.; Barbosa, Roberto N.; Santiago, Paulo R. P.; Gomes, Matheus M.] Univ Sao Paulo, Sch Phys Educ & Sport Ribeirao Preto, Ave Bandeirantes 3900, BR-14049907 Ribeirao Preto, SP, Brazil; [Zagatto, Alessandro M.] Sao Paulo State Univ, Fac Sci, Campus Bauru, Bauru, SP, Brazil; [Vieira, Luiz H. P.] Univ Sao Paulo, Fac Med Ribeirao Preto, BR-05508 Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Gomes, Matheus M.] Univ Sao Paulo, Sch Phys Educ & Sport Ribeirao Preto, Ave Bandeirantes 3900, BR-14049907 Ribeirao Preto, SP, Brazil								7							Sport Sciences	WOS:000393123500003	15	Article; Article		
J	Genc, Aysun; Celebi, Mehmet Mesut; Celik, Suleyman Utku; Atman, Ebru Dusunceli; Kocaay, Akin Firat; Zergeroglu, Ali Murat; Elhan, Atilla Halil; Genc, Volkan								The effects of exercise on mastalgia								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				45	1			17	21		10.1080/00913847.2017.1252702			2017	2017	Objective: Mastalgia is often ignored by physicians although it is the most common breast-related complaint among women. The effectiveness of exercise therapy for mastalgia is unclear. The aim of this study is to investigate the effects of exercise on mastalgia. Methods: A randomized controlled trial was conducted with twenty women with complaints of mastalgia fulfilling the inclusion and exclusion criteria. Patients were randomly assigned to the control group and to the exercise group. Sports brassiere, refraining from caffeine- and methylxanthine-containing foods, and simple analgesics were recommended for two groups. In the exercise group, an exercise program was conducted three times a week for 6weeks. Participants in both groups were evaluated for breast pain and using the Short-Form Health Survey (SF-36) questionnaire before and six weeks after study. Serum cytokine levels were also collected and analyzed. Results: No significant differences were detected with respect to age, body mass index, menopausal status, psychiatric condition, and existence of unexplained pain syndromes between the groups. Total breast pain scores were similar in both groups. The sensory component of breast pain questionnaire and visual analogue scale values significantly improved via exercise in only exercise group (p=0.012 and p=0.016). There was no significant difference between groups in serum levels of cytokines. SF-36 subscale scores for general health and social functioning significantly improved in the control group and scores for role physical, bodily pain, and social functioning improved in exercise group. Conclusions: Based on our preliminary findings, exercise treatment is beneficial for patients with mastalgia and it can be suggested by clinicians.		[Genc, Aysun] Ankara Univ, Physiotherapy Program, Haymana Vocat Sch, Ankara, Turkey; [Celebi, Mehmet Mesut; Zergeroglu, Ali Murat] Ankara Univ, Sch Med, Dept Sports Med, Ankara, Turkey; [Celik, Suleyman Utku; Kocaay, Akin Firat; Genc, Volkan] Ankara Univ, Sch Med, Dept Surg, Ankara, Turkey; [Atman, Ebru Dusunceli] Ankara Univ, Sch Med, Dept Radiol, Ankara, Turkey; [Elhan, Atilla Halil] Ankara Univ, Sch Med, Dept Biostat, Ankara, Turkey; [Genc, Aysun] Ankara Univ, Haymana Meslek Yuksekokulu, Yenimahalle Ankara Caddesi, TR-06860 Haymana Ankara, Turkey								13							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000394618700003	21	Article; Article		
J	Trobinger, Christian; Wiedermann, Christian J.								Bodybuilding-induced Mondor's disease of the chest wall								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				23				133	135		10.1016/j.ptsp.2016.09.002			JAN 2017	2017	Objective: To describe the association of bodybuilding abdominal exercise with the development of superficial sclerosing thrombophlebitis of the anterolateral thoracoabdominal wall. Design: A single case study. Setting: University-affiliated regional community hospital. Case description: A 54-year-old man presented with an otherwise unremarkable past medical history 4 weeks after the start of left-sided chest discomfort. He had undergone orthopedic surgery of the right shoulder three months earlier. Two months after surgery, he had re-started bodybuilding with thoracoabdominal training. Soon thereafter, he noted a painful induration at the left side of his trunk. Doppler and duplex sonography revealed complete venous occlusion compatible with sclerosing thrombophlebitis leading to a palpable, subcutaneous, cord-like lesion on the left side of his trunk. Physical examination and routine laboratory findings were normal. The lesion spontaneously resolved over a course of 3 months. Conclusions: Mondor's disease of the subcutaneous veins of the chest wall which has been associated with breast or axillary surgery, malignant and systemic diseases can also appear in subjects performing intense thoracoabdominal exercise training. Although it requires only symptomatic therapy, physicians and therapists must be aware of the existence of this disease because, although benign and self-limiting, malignant and systemic diseases need to be ruled out. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Trobinger, Christian; Wiedermann, Christian J.] Cent Hosp Bolzano Bozen, Dept Internal Med, Lorenz Bohler St 5, I-39100 Bolzano, BZ, Italy; [Wiedermann, Christian J.] Cent Hosp Bolzano Bozen, Dept Internal Med, Lorenz Bohler St 5, I-39100 Bolzano, BZ, Italy								7							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000393262200020	29	Article; Article		
J	Townshend, Andrew D.; Smith, Melinda M. Franettovich; Creaby, Mark W.								The energetic cost of gait retraining: A pilot study of the acute effect								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				23				113	117		10.1016/j.ptsp.2016.08.010			JAN 2017	2017	Objective: To investigate the acute effect of gait retraining aimed at reducing tibial peak positive acceleration (PPA) on energetic cost (VO2). Design: Intervention with a pre/post-test design. Setting: University biomechanics laboratory. Participants: 12 healthy male runners (23.4 +/- 5.3 years, 179.7 +/- 4.3 cm, 75.6 +/- 9.2 kg). Main outcome measures: Tibial PPA and oxygen consumption (VO2) were measured after a five minute baseline run and at the end of a gait retraining session aimed at minimizing tibial PPA. Results: Tibial PPA significantly decreased between baseline and after gait retraining (32.6%, p = 0.007). VO2 significantly increased between the two time periods (9.3%, p = 0.008). There was no correlation between change in tibial PPA and change in VO2 (p = 0.956, r = 0.018). Conclusion: Practitioners who aim to reduce injury risk by minimizing tibial PPA in runners need to consider the possible acute effect on performance as a result of changes in VO2. Further investigation is warranted to understand the energetic cost of different kinematic strategies used by individuals. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Townshend, Andrew D.; Creaby, Mark W.] Australian Catholic Univ, Sch Exercise Sci, Sydney, NSW 4014, Australia; [Smith, Melinda M. Franettovich] Australian Catholic Univ, Ctr Musculoskeletal Res, Mary MacKillop Inst Hlth Res, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Townshend, Andrew D.] Australian Catholic Univ, Sch Exercise Sci, Sydney, NSW 4014, Australia								13							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000393262200017	22	Article; Article		
J	Frost, David M.; Beach, Tyson A. C.; Campbell, Troy L.; Callaghan, Jack P.; McGill, Stuart M.								Can the Functional Movement Screen™ be used to capture changes in spine and knee motion control following 12 weeks of training?								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				23				50	57		10.1016/j.ptsp.2016.06.003			JAN 2017	2017	Objective: To examine whether objective measures of spine and frontal plane knee motion exhibited during Functional Movement Screen (TM) (FMS) task performance changed following a movement-guided fitness (MOV) and conventional fitness (FIT) exercise intervention. Design: Secondary analysis of a randomized controlled experiment. Before and after 12 weeks of exercise, participants' kinematics were quantified while performing the FMS and a series of general whole body movement tasks. Setting: Biomechanics laboratory. Participants: Fifty-two firefighters were assigned to MOV, FIT, or a control (CON) group. Outcome measures: Peak lumbar spine flexion/extension, lateral bend and axial twist, and frontal plane knee motion. Results: The post-training kinematic changes exhibited by trainees while performing the FMS tasks were similar in magnitude (effect size < 0.8) to those exhibited by CON. However, when performing the battery of general whole-body movement tasks, only MOV showed significant improvements in spine and frontal plane knee motion control (effect size > 0.5). Conclusions: Whether graded qualitatively, or quantitatively via kinematic analyses, the FMS may not be a viable tool to detect movement-based exercise adaptations. Amendments to the FMS tasks and/or scoring method are needed before it can be used for reasons beyond appraising the ability to move freely, symmetrically, and without pain. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Frost, David M.; Beach, Tyson A. C.] Univ Toronto, Fac Kinesiol & Phys Educ, 55 Harbord St, Toronto, ON M5S 2W6, Canada; [Campbell, Troy L.; Callaghan, Jack P.; McGill, Stuart M.] Univ Waterloo, Dept Kinesiol, 200 Univ Ave West, Waterloo, ON N2L 3G1, Canada; [Frost, David M.] Univ Toronto, Fac Kinesiol & Phys Educ, 55 Harbord St, Toronto, ON M5S 2W6, Canada								23							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000393262200008	22	Article; Article		
J	Langarika-Rocafort, Argia; Ignacio Emparanza, Jose; Aramendi, Jose F.; Castellano, Julen; Calleja-Gonzalez, Julio								Intra-rater reliability and agreement of various methods of measurement to assess dorsiflexion in the Weight Bearing Dorsiflexion Lunge Test (WBLT) among female athletes								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				23				37	44		10.1016/j.ptsp.2016.06.010			JAN 2017	2017	Objectives: To examine the intra-observer reliability and agreement between five methods of measurement for dorsiflexion during Weight Bearing Dorsiflexion Lunge Test and to assess the degree of agreement between three methods in female athletes. Design: Repeated measurements study design. Setting: Volleyball club. Participants: Twenty-five volleyball players. Main outcome measurements: Dorsiflexion was evaluated using five methods: heel-wall distance, first toe-wall distance, inclinometer at tibia, inclinometer at Achilles tendon and the dorsiflexion angle obtained by a simple trigonometric function. For the statistical analysis, agreement was studied using the Bland-Altman method, the Standard Error of Measurement and the Minimum Detectable Change. Reliability analysis was performed using the Intraclass Correlation Coefficient. Results: Measurement methods using the inclinometer had more than 6 of measurement error. The angle calculated by trigonometric function had 3.28 error. The reliability of inclinometer based methods had ICC values < 0.90. Distance based methods and trigonometric angle measurement had an ICC values > 0.90. Concerning the agreement between methods, there was from 1.93 to 14.42 bias, and from 4.24 to 7.96 random error. Conclusion: To assess DF angle in WBLT, the angle calculated by a trigonometric function is the most repeatable method. The methods of measurement cannot be used interchangeably. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Langarika-Rocafort, Argia; Castellano, Julen; Calleja-Gonzalez, Julio] Univ Basque Country, Fac Phys Act & Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, UPV EHU, Portal Lasarte 71, Vitoria 01007, Spain; [Langarika-Rocafort, Argia] Univ Deusto, Fac Psychol & Educ, Paseo Univ 24, Bilbao 48007, Spain; [Ignacio Emparanza, Jose] Univ Hosp Donostia, Clin Epidemiol Unit, CASPe, BioDonostia, Paseo Doctor Begiristain 117, Donostia San Sebastian 20080, Spain; [Aramendi, Jose F.] Osasunkirol Salud & Deporte, Calle Foru S-N, Hondarribia 20280, Spain; [Langarika-Rocafort, Argia] Univ Deusto, Fac Psychol & Educ, Paseo Univ 24, Bilbao 48007, Spain								31							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000393262200006	39	Article; Article		
J	Pabian, Patrick S.; Oliveira, Leonardo; Tucker, Jennifer; Beato, Morris; Gual, Carlos								Interprofessional management of concussion in sport								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				23				123	132		10.1016/j.ptsp.2016.09.006			JAN 2017	2017	Due to the high incidence of sports concussion, various health and medical providers are likely to encounter athletes who have sustained such an injury. Management of concussion necessitates coordinated care by the members of the sports medicine team due to its pathophysiology and complexity of management during recovery. All members of the sports medicine team must possess contemporary knowledge of concussion management as well as strong interprofessional communication skills to ensure effective care and safe return to sports participation. Therefore, the aim of this manuscript is to review the current best practices in interdisciplinary management of sports concussion with a special emphasis on the required interprofessional communication among the sports medicine team. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Pabian, Patrick S.; Tucker, Jennifer; Beato, Morris] Univ Cent Florida, Dept Hlth Profess, Doctor Phys Therapy Program, Orlando, FL 32816 USA; [Oliveira, Leonardo] Univ Cent Florida, Dept Internal Med, Coll Med, Orlando, FL 32816 USA; [Gual, Carlos] Univ Cent Florida, Dept Hlth Profess, Athlet Training Program, Orlando, FL 32816 USA; [Pabian, Patrick S.] Univ Cent Florida, Dept Hlth Profess, Doctor Phys Therapy Program, Orlando, FL 32816 USA								23							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000393262200019	98	Article; Article		
J	Ahmed, Osman Hassan; Hall, Eric E.								"It was only a mild concussion": Exploring the description of sports concussion in online news articles								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				23				7	13		10.1016/j.ptsp.2016.07.003			JAN 2017	2017	Background/aims: Concussion is widely discussed in online sports news articles, but the terms used to report this injury vary. This study aimed to use a systematic search strategy and explore the description of sports concussion in online sports news articles. Methods: A systematic approach was employed to obtain online articles related to sports concussion from four sports associated with concussion (hockey, football, soccer, and rugby). Included articles were evaluated for the descriptors used in relation to concussion and possible consequences associated with concussion. Data was analysed to determine trends between each sport as well between the countries of origin of the articles. Results: From 200 articles retrieved, 153 were included for analysis. The terms "Head injury" (30.1%) and "Brain injury" (20.9%) were most used to describe a concussive injury, and the most frequently mentioned consequence of concussion was "Chronic Traumatic Encephalopathy" (15%). Modifiers which potentially play down the importance of the injury were noted in 9.8% of the articles, with journalists the primary source of these terms. Conclusions: The variability in reporting of concussion by online news articles may limit the transmission of correct concussion information to the public. To improve the consistency of this reporting, the "Media Concussion Checklist" was developed. (C) 2016 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.		[Ahmed, Osman Hassan] Bournemouth Univ, Fac Hlth & Social Sci, Royal London House, Bournemouth BH1 3LT, Dorset, England; [Ahmed, Osman Hassan] Poole Hosp NHS Fdn Trust, Dept Physiotherapy, Poole, Dorset, England; [Ahmed, Osman Hassan] FA Ctr Disabil Football Res, St Georges Pk, Burton Upon Trent, England; [Hall, Eric E.] Elan Univ, Dept Exercise Sci, Elon, NC USA; [Ahmed, Osman Hassan] Bournemouth Univ, Fac Hlth & Social Sci, Royal London House, Bournemouth BH1 3LT, Dorset, England								44							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000393262200002	39	Article; Article		
J	Halim-Kertanegara, Shane; Raymond, Jacqueline; Hiller, Claire E.; Kilbreath, Sharon L.; Refshauge, Kathryn M.								The effect of ankle taping on functional performance in participants with functional ankle instability								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				23				162	167		10.1016/j.ptsp.2016.03.005			JAN 2017	2017	Objective: To investigate the effect of rigid ankle tape on functional performance, self-efficacy and perceived stability, confidence and reassurance during functional tasks in participants with functional anlde instability. Design: Clinical measurement, crossover design. Methods: Participants (n = 25) with functional ankle instability (Cumberland Ankle Instability Score < 25) were recruited from university students and sporting clubs. Participants performed five functional tests with and without the ankle taped. The tests were: figure-8 hopping test, hopping obstacle course, star excursion balance test (SEBT), single-leg stance and stair descent test. Secondary outcome measures were self-efficacy and perception measures. Results: Rigid tape significantly decreased the stair descent time by 4% (p = 0.014), but had no effect on performance in the other tests. Self-efficacy increased significantly (p < 0.001). Perceived stability, confidence and reassurance also increased with the ankle taped (p < 0.05) during the stair and two hopping tasks, but not during the SEBT or single-leg stance test. Conclusion: Although taping the ankle did not affect performance, except to improve stair descent, it increased self-efficacy and perceived confidence in dynamic tasks. These findings suggest that taping may reduce apprehension without affecting functional performance in those with functional ankle instability and permit continued physical activity or sport participation. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Halim-Kertanegara, Shane; Raymond, Jacqueline; Hiller, Claire E.; Kilbreath, Sharon L.; Refshauge, Kathryn M.] Univ Sydney, Fac Hlth Sci, Discipline Physiotherapy, POB 170, Lidcombe, NSW 1825, Australia; [Halim-Kertanegara, Shane] Univ Sydney, Sports Clin, Cnr Western Ave & Phys Rd, Sydney, NSW 2006, Australia; [Raymond, Jacqueline] Univ Sydney, Fac Hlth Sci, Discipline Physiotherapy, POB 170, Lidcombe, NSW 1825, Australia								23							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000393262200024	39	Article; Article		
